FILE COPY
Report No. 1478-WA
Ivory Coast/Upper Volta
Appraisal of a Regional Railway Project
October 11, 1977
Western Africa Projects Department
Ports, Railways, and Aviation Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -     CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00             -      CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million    -       US$4,081.63
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND IIEASURES:  Metric
Metric                                     US Equivalents
1 meter (m)      3             -     3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (mJ)             -      35.29 cubic feet (cu ft)
t kilometer (km)        2      -      0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km >    -        0.386 square mile (sq mi)
I hectare (ha)                 -      2.47 acres (ac)
I metric ton (m ton)           -      2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AliD ACRONYMfS
CIDA       -    Canadian International Development Agency
EIB        -    European Investment Bank
FED        -    Fonds Europeen de Developpement
GDP        -    Gross Domestic Product
GNP        -    Gross National Product
IDA        -    International Development Association
MP&RS      -    Motive Power and Rolling Stock Department
OP         -    Operations Department
OCAM       -    Organisation Commune des Etats Africains et Malgache
pass-km   -    Passenger-kilometers
PK         -    Point Kilometrique (distance from Abidjan)
RAN        -    Regie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger
SCA        -    Societe des Ciments d'Abidjan
SWLHT      -    Sleeping-Cars and Hotels Department
S&T        -    Signalling & Telecommunications Service
t-km       -    Ton-kilometers
T&W        -    Track & Work Department
TD         -    Training Division



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMM4ARY  .............................................                                 i-iv
1.    INTRODUCTION  .        ................... ........................                        1
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ....................................                                  1
A.    Thé Regional Setting  ..............................                                 1
B.    The Regional Transport System .......................                               2
C.    Regional Transport  Issues  .............            .............                  3
3.    THE RAN RAILWAY  .........................................                                 4
A.    Organization and Management  ....4 ..................                               4
B.    Staff and Training  ................» ............. .                               5
C.    Accounts,  Budgets,  Planning and Audit   ..............                            7
D.    Property  ..................................................... O..                 8
E.    Operations  ..................................................... 0.                8
F.    Traffic  ........et.................... .0..........................                9
4.    THE PLAN AND THE PROJECT  ................................                                10
A.    RAN's Investment Plan  . ............               ..... . .......... .           10
B.    The Project  .......           ........................... .                       il
C.   Financing Plan  ........... ..........................                              16
D.    Project Execution,  Procurement,  and Disbursement  ...                            17
5.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ......               ...............................                 18
A.    General  ................. ...........................                             18
B.    Realignment Bouake-Petionara  .....                 ..................             19
C.    Track Renewal and Rehabilitation in
Upper Volta  .......... ...........................................             19
D.    Track Maintenance Equipment                      ........................          20
E.    Freight Cars,  Tank Cars  and Locomotives  ...* ......                             20
F.    Sensitivity Analysis  ...............................                              20
G.    Total Project  ......................................                              21
6.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION  ......               ..............................                 21
A.    Past and Present  Position  .....              .....................               21
B.    Future Financial Position  .....               .....................               24
C.    Sensitivity Analysis  ......               .........................               27
7.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND REC0O1MENDATION   ..................                              28
This report has been prepared by Messrs. H. Apitz (Financial Analyst/Economist),
A. Defalque (Railway Engineer), H. Levy (Economist), and C. Morra (Training
Officer).
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be und by rocipbents only in the performance
of their official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents - (Continued)
TABLES
1.  Summary of Operating Statistics 1970-1976
2.  Total Project Cost
3.  Training - Cost Estimates
4.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.  Summary of Rates of Return
6.  Income Accounts 1970-1976
7.  Summary Balance Sheets 1970-1975
8.  Forecast Income Accounts 1976-1982
9.  Forecast Balance Sheets 1976-1982
10.  Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds
ANNEXES
1.  Bank Projects in the Transport Sector
2.  Training
3.  Railway Property
4.  Operational Plan of Action
5.  Passenger Traffic
6.  Freight Traffic
7.  Forecast Disbursement for Investments (1977-1982)
8.  Determination of Freight Car Needs, 1977-1985
9.  Mainline Locomotive Needs in 1980
10.  Terms of Reference for Marshalling Yard Study
and Petionara-Tafire Feasibility Study
11.  Details of Economic Evaluation
12.  Assumptions Used to Forecast RAN's Financial Statements
CHARTS
1. RAN Organization Chart
2. RAN Track Characteristics
MAPS
IBRD 12751R
IBRD 12752R



IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.         The objective of the railway project appraised in this report is
to increase the capacity and efficiency of the Regie des Chemins de Fer
Abidjan-Niger (RAN) thereby permitting it to contribute to the economic
development of the region it serves, i.e. all of Upper Volta, central and
northern Ivory Coast and southeastern Mali. The project, covering the first
half of RAN's 1977-1982 investment program, is designed to meet RAN's capacity
needs until 1980, to rehabilitate and upgrade existing infrastructure, and to
strengthen RAN's operational and managerial effectiveness.
ii.        The major portion of the region served by RAN belongs te oe  of
the poorest areas of the world. Per capita incomes in both Mali and Upper
Volta were below US$100 in 1975, virtually unchanged from the 1965 level, due
in particular to drought on top of a limited resource base. A moderate growth
in per capita income of about 2% per annum, corresponding to a 4% growth rate
in GNP, is expected for the remainder of the decade. In the more fortunate
Ivory Coast, with a 1975 per capita income averaging US$500, growth rates of
income and population have been consistently high, the latter partly due to
immigration from Sahelian countries. Prospects continue to be good with GNP
growth rates in the 6% range being forecast. In the rather poor northern part
of the Ivory Coast, per capita income is about US$200, little better than
southern Upper Volta. As the Ivorian government is increasing its development
efforts in the northern part of the country, a higher than average growth of
income and agricultural production may be expected there. Throughout the
region, agriculture, and further north, livestock, do and will continue to
provide the livelihood for the vast majority of people. Both agriculture and
livestock production can grow at satisfactory rates only if they can rely on
efficient low-cost transport.
iii.       The region is connected to the ocean by four transport corridors.
The ports and modes of transport are, in decreasing order of importance,
Abidjan (rail and road), Dakar (rail only), Tema (road only) and Lome (road
only). All of the above five connections are being rehabilitated or upgraded,
and the Bank Group is closely associated with four of them namely, the Abidjan-
Ouagadougou railway (RAN) through the proposed project, the Abidjan-Ouagadougou
road through highway projects in both Ivory Coast and Upper Volta, the Dakar-
Bamako railway through projects in both Senegal and Mali, and the Tema-
Ouagadougou road through two highway projects in Ghana. Thus, improvement of
the main arteries is well underway, and expenditures should now be concentrated
on improving maintenance and efficiency and on constructing secondary and
tertiary roads. These objectives increasingly dominate the Bank's strategy in
t;e r~L^en, including the proposed project, and the respective Governments are
rr gisizing their importance tu an ever-greater degree.



- ii -
iv.       The distribution of traffic between different modes and corridors
is generally satisfactory. However, due to the inefficient operations of
the Dakar-Bamako railway, substantial amounts of Mali international traffic
are being diverted to the more costly Abidjan-Bamako corridor. A significant
improvement of this distortion is expected from implementation of the Third
Mali and proposed Third Senegal railway projects, which have as their main
objectives a substantial increase in productivity, capacity and quality of
rail service. In the transport corridor extending northward from Abidjan,
there is competition between rail and road services. For freight traffic both
modes are being subsidized in the order of 5-10% of operating costs, and the
Governments have considerable influence on rate setting for both modes. As it
is not clear if this is leading to an uneconomie distortion of the modal
allocation of traffic, this question will be analyzed in depth by the planning
and research unit being set up in the Ivorian Ministry of Transport. Moreover,
this and similar units in Upper Volta and Mali, also being established under
the auspices of Bank Group-financed highway projects, will be given an impor-
tant role in resolving the transport sector issues spelled out above.
v.        RAN's essential role is to provide low-cost transport of satis-
factory quality for passengers and freight between Abidjan and the region
served by the railway. The railway's basic organizational structure is ade-
quate to enable it to fulfill this role.  RAN is a multinational, financially
autonomous agency owned by the Governments of the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta.
The railway's Articles of Agreement and their application reflect a sound
balance between the railway's managerial autonomy and the Governments' in-
fluence over major policy matters. RAN's internal organizational structure
was adequate during the 1960s. More recently, however, as a function of
the growth of the railway's operations and its investment volume, critical
problems in RAN's information and planning systems and in its operations
and equipment maintenance have become apparent. The proposed project will
provide technical assistance and training to help solve these problems.
vi.       RAN has a permanent staff of about 5,100.  Some overstaffing is
apparent, and under the project RAN will make every effort to increase staff
productivity by maintaining approximately the present overall staff level
through the end of 1978 and by accelerating training efforts.
vii.      In general, RAN's 1975 financial statements are based on sound
accounting principles. An ongoing re-organization will further improve
asset valuation and cost accounting. Additionally, the project provides for
strengthening planning and management and for a more comprehensive audit.
The operational and investment budgets annually prepared by RAN will be
reviewed by the Bank before their presentation to the railway's Board of
Directors.
viii.     RAN operates a 1,159-km, single-track, meter-gauge line from Abidjan
in the Ivory Coast to Ouagadougou in Upper Volta. There is only one short
branch line. Infrastructure is generally well maintained, but some sections
must soon be renewed, Equally important, a large part of the railway's motive
power and rolling stock is approaching the end of its useful life at a time



- iii -
when additional capacity is needed to carry forecast traffic increases. This
results in a need for substantial investment in rolling equipment, even after
taking into account improvements in operating efficiency as laid down in an
agreed operational plan of action associated with the proposed project.
ix.       RAN's freight traffic grew historically at rather high rates.  In
accordance with RAN's marketing strategy, freight traffic operations have
focused and will continue to focus on commodities such as cement, petroleum
products, fertilizer, sugar, cotton and oil seeds. In concentrating on car-
rying these and some other commodities, RAN takes full advantage of its
competitive superiority over road transport to carry major commodities over
long distances at low cost and at a satisfactory speed. The traffic forecasts
make due allowance for strong trucking competition, in particular for short
and some medium hauls for commodities such as general cargo, beverages and
food. Freight traffic is expected to reach 1.4 million tons and 883 million
t-km by 1985, corresponding to an annual growth rate of about 6.5% in both
tonnage and t-km. Development of passenger traffic has followed a firm
pattern based on regional population growth, Ivorian economic development
and travel demand from migrant workers, mostly from Upper Volta.  This pat-
tern will continue to prevail, and forecasts have been established accord-
ingly, resulting in growth rates of 2.8% in number of passengers and 5.7%
in passenger-km.
x.        RAN's 1977-1982 investment program, totalling US$211 million includ-
ing contingencies, is designed to meet capacity demands, rehabilitate and
upgrade infrastructure and maintain RAN's financial viability. The plan,
which will be updated annually in consultation with the Bank, contains four
components, totalling US$45 million, the scope and timing of which must still
be determined in consultation between the Ivorian Government, RAN and the
Bank, based in three cases on studies included in the proposed project. The
elements of the proposed project have been selected from the 1978-79 portion
of the investment plan to meet RAN's most urgent requirements. They include:
(a) rehabilitation and upgrading of infrastructure in both the Ivory Coast
and Upper Volta and procurement of track maintenance equipment (US$33.2
million); (b) procurement of locomotives and freight cars (US$26.0 million);
(c) a training and technical assistance component (US$4.0 million); and
(d) interest during construction (US$3.0 million). Total cost is estimated
at US$66.2 million equivalent, net of taxes, including local costs of US$10.0
million equivalent. Financing is assured by credits from CIDA (US$29.2
million), the proposed IDA credit to Upper Volta (US$5.2 million), the
proposed Bank loan to RAN (US$23.0 million), and contributions from both
Governments and RAN (US$8.8 million).
xi.       The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit would be used for the infra-
structure component, track maintenance equipment, training and technical,
assistance and interest during construction. All major Bank- and IDA-financed
items will be procured in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Items to-
talling about $20.0 million will be procured by international competitive
bidding or, with regard to consulting services, comparable methods. Other
items will be procured from Canadian suppliers, by force account, local com-
petitive bidding and from traditional suppliers due to the size of contracts
and/or the need for standardization.



- iv -
xii.      The project is expected to produce benefits through increasing
the transport capacity of RAN, which is the most economic mode of transport,
thereby avoiding diversion of present and future rail traffic to road trans-
port, and through savings in operating and maintenance costs and avoidance
of accidents. The economic rate of return of the entire project is estimated
at 23%, and all individual project components are economically justified even
under slow traffic-growth assumptions utilized for sensitivity analysis pur-
poses. Rates of return are still satisfactory even when the highly improb-
able, simultaneous occurance of slow traffic growth, high rail-transport
costs and higher than estimated project costs is assumed.
xiii.     RAN's operating revenue and costs grew rapidly and virtually in
parallel during the 1970-1976 period, producing a corresponding cash flow
increase of about 200%. The railway's investment volume, however, increased
much more rapidly than its cash flow, entailing borrowing on a much larger
scale and a drop of the debt service coverage ratio from 9.0 in 1970 to 1.5
in 1976. As investment needs will remain high for several years in order
to maintain RAN's competitiveness with road transport and to increase capa-
city, there is a need for a massive increase in cash generation from opera-
tions. To achieve this objective, RAN and the Bank have agreed on the basic
elements of a corporate plan, including implementation of RAN's marketing
strategy, its operational plan of action, and measures to increase staff
productivity. Additionally, tariff increases exceeding inflationary cost
increases by about 18% over the three years 1977-1979 are needed, limited
however to about the above percentage in order not to jeopardize RAN's compe-
titive position. Implementation of these measures will lead to a satisfactory
earning situation by 1979, reflected in expected working ratios of 78% in
1978 and 73% thereafter. RAN agreed to maximum working ratios of 78% in 1978,
75% thereafter. In addition, a debt limitation based on a minimum debt
service coverage ratio of 1.5 was agreed upon.
xiv.      The above ratios do not take into account the substantial payments
from both Governments to the railway for maintenance, renewal and construction
of infrastructure. Due to RAN's high investment needs, these contributions
are necessary for RAN's financial viability in the medium-term; and more
timely payment by the Governments is needed and is being provided in order to
remedy RAN's present cash shortage. From 1980 onwards, however, a substantial
reduction of contribution payments may be possible, and timely consultations
on this subject between the Governments, RAN and the Bank have been agreed`.
Finally, the project ensures that the Governments will take appropriate
measures to protect RAN's cash position should a cash shortfall materialize
due to a worse-than-expected development of one or several of the factors on
which the financial forecasts depend, mainly a shortfall in traffic volumes
and higher-than-expected staff costs.
xv.       The proposed project with conditions as stipulated is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$5.2 million to the Government of Upper Volta and a Bank
loan of US$23.0 million to RAN with the Government of the Ivory Coast as
guarantor for a period of 17 years, including a grace period of 4 years.
The Government of Upper Volta would guarantee jointly and severally with the
Ivory Coast a portion of the loan, amounting to about US$6 million and corres-
ponding to items which are not exclusively located in the Ivory Coast.



IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Governments of the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta and the
Regie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger (RAN) have asked the Bank to help
finance a regional railway project. The objective is to assist RAN in effec-
tively playing its important role in the economic development of the region
it serves, i.e., all of Upper Volta, central and northern Ivory Coast and
south-eastern Mali. The project is designed to meet RAN's capacity needs
until 1980, to rehabilitate and upgrade existing infrastructure and to
strengthen RAN's operational and managerial effectiveness.
1.02      Total project cost is estimated at about US$63.2 million equivalent,
net of taxes, including foreign costs of about US$53.2 million (84%). To help
finance the project and interest during construction (US$3 million), a Bank
loan of US$23.0 million to RAN and an IDA credit of US$5.2 million to Upper
Volta are proposed; CIDA has agreed in principle to provide about US$29.2
million, and the two Governments and RAN would cover the balance of about
US$8.8 million.
1.03      This would be the first Bank Group operation for the benefit of
RAN and the ninth for transport in the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta. The
eight preceding Bank Group operations include five highway projects in the
Ivory Coast and three highway projects in Upper Volta; details of these
projects are given in Annex 1.
1.04      This report is based on information provided by RAN and on the
findings of an appraisal mission in September/October 1976 composed of Messrs.
H. Apitz (Financial Analyst/Economist), C. Buratti (Engineer/Motive Power
Specialist), A. Defalque (Engineer), P. Koenig (Loan Officer), G. Morra
(Training Officer) and J. Rolfo (Economist). Mr. H. Levy (Economist) also
helped to prepare this report.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   The Regional Setting
2.01      The landlocked Sahelian countries of West Africa need cheap and
reliable access to the Atlantic Ocean. For southeastern Mali, Upper Volta
and subsahelian northern Ivory Coast as a region, the Abidjan rail/road cor-
ridor is the principal link to the sea. (For Mali alone, the Dakar corridor
is equally important.) Within the Abidjan corridor RAN is the most economic
mode. The railway carries about 80% of the traffic to and from Upper Volta
and the northern Ivory Coast and some traffic of Southern Mali.



-2-
2.02      The major portion of this region served by RAN is part of one of
the poorest areas of the world. Per capita income in both Mali and Upper
Volta, which together have a population of about ll million, was below US$100
in 1975, virtually unchanged from the 1965 level. The lack of growth of per
capita income was the result of the recent series of severe droughts in a re-
gion which already suffers from several significant developmental constraints.
The droughts brought about heavy losses of cattle and crops both for export
and domestic consumption, thus necessitating relief food imports totalling
about 2 million tons in 1972-75. Developmental constraints include: (i) long
transport distances, both to export-import outlets and within the region
itself; (ii) a weak agricultural base stemming mainly from low and ill-
distributed rainfall; (iii) a serious shortage of skilled manpower; and
(iv) the absence of important mineral resources, with the exception of a
manganese ore deposit of about 12 million tons near Tambao in northern Upper
Volta. Studies on the economic and financial viability of extracting this ore
are still inconclusive, high transport costs being a major factor.
2.03      In the more fortunate Ivory Coast, with a 1975 per capita income
averaging US$500 and a population of about 6.7 million, growth rates of
income and population have been consistently high, the latter partly due to
immigration from Sahelian countries. Growth in gross domestic product (GDP)
has averaged 6% since 1970, based on assets such as an abundance of fertile
land and extensive forestry resources, a climate favorable to agriculture and
short transport distances within the southern part of the country. Agricul-
tural produce, consisting largely of cocoa, coffee and timber, accounts for
86% of total exports, and Government policy emphasizes increasing the output
of these commodities, accompanied by diversification into additional crops
including sugar, rice and soybeans. Production of the latter crops will be
concentrated in the relatively poor northern part of the country, where per
capita income averaged only about $200 in 1975. The longer distance to the
sea and the consumption centers in the south of the country accentuate the
importance of efficient, low-cost transport for the development of the north.
2.04      Current forecasts for the remainder of the 1970's predict annual
GDP growth rates of about 4% for Mali and Upper Volta and about 6% for the
Ivory Coast. As the Ivorian Government is increasing its development efforts
in the northern part of the country, a higher-than-average growth of income,
agricultural production and transport demand may be expected for the north.
Throughout the region, agriculture, and further north, livestock, do and will
continue to provide the livelihood for the vast majority of people. Both
agriculture and livestock can grow at satisfactory rates only if they can
count on cheap and reliable transport, thus underlining the importance of
the proposed project.
B.   The Regional Transport System
2.05      The Ivory Coast, Upper Volta and Mali are connected to the ocean
by four transport corridors. The corresponding ports and modes of transport



-3-
are, in decreasing order of importance, Abidjan (rail and road), Dakar (rail
only), Tema (road only) and Lome (road only). By far the most important
international transport route for Upper Volta is the railway (RAN), which
provides the most economic route to the sea for the economically active
western and central areas of the country. However, to reduce that country's
dependence on the railway connection to Abidjan, the Upper Voltan and
Togolese Governments plan to upgrade the road link between Ouagadougou and
Lome. This would create a high-standard route to the ocean as an alternative
to the existing paved road to Tema in Ghana. However, the routes through
Tema (Ghana) and Lome (Togo), although about 15% shorter than the Abidjan-
Ouagadougou rail-line, are second-best alternatives so far as transport cost
is concerned, except for the southeastern part of Upper Volta where not much
traffic is generated. For this part of the country, transport costs of the
three different routes are roughly equal. Furthermore, the port of Abidjan
has good natural characteristics and is capable of being expanded to accommo-
date increased traffic. For Mali, the main connections to the Atlantic Ocean
for overseas trade are provided by the Dakar-Bamako railway through Senegal
and the road and rail/road routes through the Ivory Coast over which about
half of Mali's 1975 international traffic passed. The Senegal route is
cheaper for about 70% of Mali's international traffic, but traffic is being
diverted to the alternative route through the Ivory Coast because of opera-
tional and other difficulties on the Dakar-Bamako line (para. 2.08).
2.06      In the Ivory Coast RAN runs parellel to the road between Abidjan
and the Upper Voltan border. For short distances (less than 300 km) the
flexibility and rapidity of service weigh strongly in favor of road trans-
port in the inter-modal allocation as illustrated by the average road trans-
port haul in the Ivory Coast (224 km), three times less than the average rail
haul. For traffic north of Bouake (about 80% of total rail traffic on a ton-
km basis), there is rail/road competition although the longer distances and
a high proportion of bulk commodities give the railway a strong cost advan- \
tage over the road.
C.   Regional Transport Issues
2.07      It is essential for the region to improve and fully utilize the ex-
isting transport infrastructure both within the Sahelian countries and their
neighboring transit countries. Reliable access to import-export outlets is
vital for the landlocked Sahelian countries. The five connections listed
above are presently being upgraded. The Bank Group is closely associated
with four of these transport links, namely: the Abidjan-Ouagadougou railway
through the proposed project, the Abidjan-Ouagadougou road through highway
projects in both Ivory Coast and Upper Volta, upgrading and rehabilitation
of the Tema-Ouagadougou road through two highway projects in Ghana and the
Dakar-Bamako railway through actual and proposed projects in both Senegal and
Mali. Improvement of the main arteries is well underway, and infrastructure
expenditures should now be concentrated on the improvement of maintenance,
renewal and operational efficiency of the existing sytem and on construction
of secondary and feeder roads. These objectives increasingly dominate the
Bank's strategy in the region, including the proposed project, and their
importance is increasingly recognized by the respective Governments.



- 4 --
2.08      The distribution of traffic among different modes and corridors
is in general adequate. Due, however, to the unsatisfactory operational
efficiency of the Dakar-Bamako railway, substantial amounts of traffic are
being diverted to the more costly Abidjan-Bamako corridor. Correction of
this distortion can be expected from implementation of the Third Mali and
proposed Senegal railway projects, which have as their main objective an
increase in productivity, capacity and quality of service. In the transport
corridor extending northward from Abidjan, there is competition between rail
and road. In the southern part between Abidjan and Bouake r-oad transport
prevails. For longer journeys the railway has a cost advantage, especially
for bulk commodities. In both the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta, freight
transport is subsidized on both modes of transport: directly for the railway,
as each country supports 60% of the cost of infrastructure maintenance on its
own territory; indirectly for roads, as the user taxes paid by trucks, partic-
ularly heavy ones, are below corresponding user costs. Whether the dual
subsidization, combined with the Governments' considerable influence on rate
setting for both modes, leads to significant distortions in the allocation of
transport is not known, first of all because the amount of subsidization for
operational costs is estimated at only 5-10% for both modes (trucking sub-
sidies in Upper Volta may be somewhat higher), and secondly because factors
other than costs, such as flexibility and time savings, are often more impor-
tant in the choice between rail and rcad. However, a study of the present
situation is needed to determine if and to what extent uneconomic distortions
of the modal allocation of traffic do exist, if they are caused to a signifi-
cant extent by the above subsidies and what changes in the subsidy and taxa-
tion system would be needed to improve the modal distribution of traffie. The
Planning and Research Unit, presently being set up in the Ivorian Ministry of
Transport in the context of the Fifth Highway Project, is an appropriate body
to undertake this study, with adequate participation by a corresponding unit
in the Voltaic Ministry of Transport and by outside consultants. Twenty
man-months of consultants' services will be included for this purpose in the
proposed Ivory Coast feeder road and highway maintenance project being pre-
pared. Both Governments have agreed that the study will be executed and
completed by March 1979 and that they will review its conclusions with the
Bank.
2.09      Thus, throughout the region served by RAN, there is a considerable
need to strengthen transport planning and coordination. To carry out this
work, transport planning units are being set up in each of the three countries
under the auspices of Bank Group-financed highway projects. These units
should be fully staffed with expatriate experts and local counterparts
by late 1977 and are expected to make an important contribution to resolv-
ing the above issues and to improving regional cooperation.
3. THE RAN RAILWAY
A.   Organization and Management
3.01      RAN is a multinational, financially and operationally autonomous
agency responsible for the maintenance and operation of railway facilities



directly or indirectly owned by the Governments of the Ivory Coast and Upper
Volta. RAN's Articles of Agreement, laid down in an international agreement
between the Governments of the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta dated April 30,
1960, are based on the sound principles of protecting the railway's opera-
tional autonomy and financial viability. Construction of new lines has to
be financed by the respective Government, and losses in RAN's income accounts,
which may result from insufficient tariff increases, have to be covered by
Government subsidies. The above principles have in general been success-
fully upheld by RAN's 17-member Board of Directors, composed of four Gov-
ernment representatives and three representatives of railway users from
each country, and of three members representing the railway's staff. Tar-
iff increases in particular have been timely and adequate to cope with
operating cost increases.
3.02      RAN's general manager is appointed by the Board, subject to the
agreement of both Governments. The general manager is in charge of both day-
to-day operations and proposals to the Board and the Governments on policy
matters. These arrangements have worked well as a safeguard against undue
interference in RAN's day-to-day operations; they have worked less satisfac-
torily regarding railway and transport sector planning, as both the railway's
and the Governments' planning mechanisms need strengthening. This is now
underway on the governmental level in the context of the Fifth Highway
Project in the Ivory Coast and the Third Highway Project in Upper Volta (cf.
paras. 2.08 and 2.09). The railway's planning capacity is expected to be
improved through provision of technical assistance for this purpose under
the proposed project (para. 3.10).
3.03      RAN's internal organization is shown in Chart 1.  This organization
is fundamentally sound and worked satisfactorily until about 1970. Since
then critical problems in the railway's information and planning systems and
its operations and equipment maintenance services have become apparent,
as a result of growth of the railway's operations and its investment volume.
The proposed project makes provision for consulting services to recommend and
assist in implementing improvements in these vital areas through upgrading
and strengthening of organizational structures and procedures.
B.   Staff and Training
3.04      RAN's operations staff at the end of 1976 totaled about 5,100, an in-
crease of about 12% since 1973 in spite of only moderate traffic increases in
recent years. This figure does not include about 800 temporary staff assigned
to investment programs such as the on-going realignment works of the Dimbokro-
Bouake section. Overstaffing appears to be critical in the Motive Power and
Rolling Stock workshops as a result of a weak organizational and managerial
structure. RAN is aware of this problem and is employing consultants to
assist in determining and implementing the necessary improvements. The



-6-
qualifications of the railway's staff is rather uneven in most departments and
at most levels, which underlines the importance of the training component of
the proposed project.
3.05      To control its manpower problems more efficiently, RAN has agreed
on the following: (i) to try to regain quickly the 1973 level of staff produc-
tivity by maintaining through the end of 1978 a staff of not more than 5,200
for operations, with necessary additions in some departments being offset by
reductions in others; and (ii) to prepare by June 1978 a draft five-year
manpower plan (1978 to 1982) to be discussed with the Bank with the objective
of agreeing on a specific five-year program.
3.06      RAN's management at the departmental and top levels has been en-
tirely Africanized, with the exception of one departmental director. RAN's
management personnel is, in general, well qualified but with potential for
further development. There are, moreover, about 60 expatriate technical
assistants -- a substantial number. They are somewhat unevenly distributed
among RAN's departments, filling partly advisory, partly medium-level line
positions. RAN is endeavoring to develop the management potential of its
staff and to reduce its dependence on expatriate assistance. The proposed
project makes adequate provisions for management consulting services (para.
4.16), which will start with the setting up of a plan of action to assist
RAN in this task.  However, technical assistance will still be needed for
a considerable period. RAN will consult with the Bank annually on the
railway's expected technical assistance requirements and on specific, appro-
priately timed measures.
3.07      Technical training was carried out on an ad hoc basis up to 1973.
In 1974, based on recommendations contained in a study made by SOFRERAIL,
a Training Division (TD) was established, and a more systematic training
program has since been instituted. Because of scarce training facilities,
lack of training equipment, poor working relations between the TD and some
of the operating departments, and the limited experience of some of the
instructors, technical training has so far produced only modest results.
During the past three years short retraining courses have been completed for
skilled workers and supervisors, and training of an increasing number of
new recruits has also been carried out. In spite of the general emphasis
on training responsibilities in their terms of reference, the training actu-
ally carried out by French technical assistants in RAN's operating departments
has been rather limited and needs to be improved in the next several years.
Considerable effort is, therefore, now required to strengthen the TD to
enable it to meet both present and future technical training needs. Manage-
ment training, until now limited to sporadic efforts, will be carried out
under the Management and Operations Consulting Services (paras. 4.15 and
4.16).
C.   Accounts, Budgets. Planning and Audit
3.08      RAN's accounting system is undergoing a major reorganization assisted
by qualified expatriate experts. The 1975 financial statements are in general
based on sound accounting principles, conforming to procedures recommended by



- 7 -
the Organisation Commune des Etats Africains et Malgache (OCAM). Details re-
garding valuations and depreciation of assets are discussed later in this
report (para. 6.04 and 6.07). Additionally, a basically sound and rather
sophisticated costing system is being introduced and is expected to be opera-
tional by late-1977. The new costing system will facilitate and improve
budgeting and cost control, and it will provide an important basis for RAN's
tariff policy. However, training of Africans to operate and further develop
the new accounting and costing systems is lagging behind schedule. RAN's
management is aware of this problem and is making adequate efforts to solve
it. The consultants' contracts have already been extended, and extension
beyond the presently planned termination in late-1977 may be needed and have
been discussed under the arrangements mentioned in para. 3.06.
3.09      RAN annually prepares an operational budget and an investment budget.
The operational budget is a detailed and thoroughly prepared document, and RAN
plans now to enhance its value as a management and control instrument by in-
tegrating it with the new costing system. The annual investment budget
was until 1976 limited to those investments which were financed out of the
railway's renewal fund and excluded, therefore, all capital investment financed
through borrowings. RAN's 1977 investment budget, however, reflects the
entire investment program and the proposed financing plan. RAN agreed that,
beginning with FY1978, both the operational and the investment budgets will be
submitted to the Bank for review at least 30 days before the date scheduled
for consideration by RAN's Board but in any event not later than one month
before the beginning of the fiscal year covered by the budget. The same would
apply, mutatis mutandis, to any amendments to the original investment budgets
proposed to be made during the year.
3.10      RAN's planning function needs strengthening, including a clear
definition of RAN's long-term role and financial objectives, as planning is
limited to the above budgets and to a medium-term investment plan, which are
largely established on an ad-hoc basis and do not always adequately reflect
economic and financial considerations. Equally important, the data base
for systematic planning is too weak and not always reliable. The proposed
project makes adequate provisions to meet these needs through the establish-
ment of a small corporate planning unit attached to the office of the general
manager and a centralized statistical service attached to the planning unit.
3.11      RAN's accounts are audited in compliance with the railway's statutes
by two "Commissaires aux Comptes," appointed by the Ministers of Finance of
the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta. The provisions of the statutes meet Bank
Group standards regarding the audit of borrowers' accounts. The auditors'
reports do not, however, reflect the execution of proper checks of RAN's
accounts or a thorough analysis of what the auditors consider to be problem
areas, in particular with regard to financial management. The railway has
agreed that from FY1977 onwards its accounts will be audited by qualified,
independent auditors in accordance with generally accepted auditing
principles.



- 8-
D.  Property
3.12      RAN operates a 1,159-km single track, meter-gauge rail line from
Abidjan (Vridi port) in the Ivory Coast to Ouagadougou in Upper Volta (see
Map). There is a 14-km branch line from Azaguie, 42 km north of Abidjan, to
Ake-Befiat and also a double-track section of about 16 km between Cechi and
Anoumaba, about 130 km north of Abidjan. Track is generally well maintained
but some sections need renewal because of the poor condition of old track
material due to its age, deteriorated subgrade, severe characteristics
of the profile or inadequate track material. A large part of the railway's
motive power and a substantial number of freight cars are obsolete and have to
be replaced. In addition, new equipment is needed to carry the forecast
increase of traffic. The overall signalling system is adequate for present
traffic. Communication facilities along the Abidjan-Ouagadougou line are
inadequate to provide efficient traffic control. RAN is in the process of
improving these facilities by constructing a new radio link which will ena'ole
the railway to improve control of train movement. A brief description of
railway track, structures, equipment and other property is presented in Chart
2 and Annex 3.
E.   Operations
3o13      A summary of operating statistics for RAN for 1970-1976 is presented
in Table 1. Operating efficiency dropped from 1973 to 1975 as a result of a
slump in traffic demand, insufficient management control and an increase in
staff. Staff productivity is, however, still higher than for other comparable
West African railways. The main areas where drastic improvement should be
obtained and which will be covered by various components of the project are:
(i) average load per train; (ii) monthly mileage and number of breakdowns
of locomotives; (iii) turnaround time of freight cars; (iv) utilization of
passenger coaches; and (v) train delays.
3.14      The average load per train can be increased by improving the geo-
metric characteristics of the line and by improving the efficiency of opera-
tions and maintenance of equipment. The availability of motive power is
rather low. However, RAN's newest locomotives are no longer susceptible to
--'fficulties stemming from the fact that they were prototype units, and it
îs expected that their overall utilization factor will reach 65% to 70% by
1980-1982 (80% of technical availability and 85% of utilization of available
motive power). The availability of rolling stock is rather high for freight
cars (about 96%). The turnaround time for 1975 is high due to the slump of
traffic from the peak of 1973.   The utilization of passenger coaches appears
to be low, and this should be improved by better scheduling and a more effi-
cient organization of the Operations and Motive Power & Rolling Stock Depart-
ments.
3.15      The operational plan of action for the period 1977 to 1982 is shown
in Annex 4 and has been agreed upon with RAN. The operational targets are
demanding but can be achieved during this period. The operational plan of
action has been incorporated in the proposed Loan Agreement.



-9-
F.   Traffic
Passenger Traffic
3.16      During the period 1960-1975 the number of passengers per year
doubled from 1.5 to 3.0 million (Annex 5). The annual increase followed a
clear linear trend, corresponding to a growth rate of 2.9% at the end of the
period. As average distance travelled more than doubled during 1960-1975,
travel demand expressed in passenger kilometers (pass-km) increased rapidly,
with a growth rate of 8.5% between 1970 and 1975. Average travel distances
increased as interstate traffic, generated predominantly by growing numbers of
migrant workers from Upper Volta, grew at a faster pace than Ivorian and
Voltaic domestic traffic. Interstate traffic presently generates two-thirds
of all passenger-kilometers. There has also been a shift toward longer
journeys in Ivorian domestic traffic as more people travel by road for short
trips.
3.17      The above trends are expected to continue in the future:  moderate
growth in the number of passengers, accompanied by a more rapid growth in
passenger-kilometers. To quantify the forecast, a linear regression model
has been used in which the independent variables are the two major factors
responsible for the growth of RAN's passenger traffic, namely the populations
of the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta and the Ivorian GDP. The resulting fore-
cast predicts somewhat slower growth rates for 1976-1985 than in the past,
specifically 2.8% for passengers and 5.7% for pass-km.
Freight Traffic
3.18      RAN's freight traffic grew historically at rather high rates.
Annual growth rates, expressed in ton-km, averaged 5.8% during the decade
1966 to 1976, although the annual average during the period 1966-1973 was
8.2%, a figure which eliminates the impact of the Sahelian droughts and the
general economic recession on railway traffic. Freight traffic, which had
grown rapidly from 393 million ton-km in 1970 to 480 million ton-km in 1973,
dropped back to 377 million ton-km in 1975. Since late 1975 traffic has been
picking up at an annual rate of about 30% and in 1976 slightly exceeded the
1973 peak. The economic recovery in the Ivory Coast and relatively good crops
in the Sahel explain this traffic increase.
3.19      RAN achieved its growth of freight traffic in spite of rather strong
competition from road transport, particularly for short- and medium-distances
and for origins and destinations which necessitate more than one transshipment.
During 1970-1975 RAN lost much short- and medium-haul traffic to trucking, and
the railway's average haul increased accordingly by 17% to about 700 km. The
present structure of RAN's freight traffic well reflects the railway's compe-
titive position.  RAN's strength lies in carrying major commodities on long
hauls; six such commodities dominate its freight traffic: cotton, oil-seeds,



- 10 -
sugar, petroleum products, cement and fertilizer. Their share of commercial
freight tonnage increased from 41% in 1970 to 54% in 1975. On the other hand
RAN plays only a small role in the transport of the Ivory Coast's three major
export commodities--timber, coffee, and cocoa--which are evacuated over rather
short distances almost exclusively by trucks.
3.20      Traffic forecasts are based on RAN's marketing strategy of taking
full advantage of its competitive superiority over road transport by focusing
on carrying major commodities over long distances at low cost. The forecasts
assume that RAN, which has a comparatively efficient marketing and sales
department, will be reasonably successful in implementing its marketing
strategy. RAN agrees with the forecasts and considers them an essential part
of the railway's corporate objectives. They have, accordingly, been incorpo-
rated into the draft Loan Agreement. The forecasts, nevertheless, contain an
element of risk in that plan implementation may lag behind schedule. There-
fore, the sensitivity analyses make the rather severe assumption that only 50%
of expected freight traffic growth will materialize.
3.21      RAN is in the process of concluding long-term transport contracts
and making other appropriate arrangements with large individual customers.
Examples of these arrangements are: branch lines which are being built to new
sugar plants, thus ensuring that sugar and molasses will be evacuated by rail
to Abidjan; for northbound cement traffic, RAN is assisting the major Ivorian
producer in expanding its loading capacity and in constructing depots for
regional distribution along the rail line. Regarding petroleum products, the
railway will introduce in 1977 the use of block trains to improve tank-car
productivity. The petroleum companies have assured RAN that they will procure
enough additional rolling stock to cope with expected demand. The share of
commercial freight tonnage of these four commodities, plus cotton, oil-seeds
and fertilizer where RAN's competitive superiority is equally strong, is
expected to increase from 54% in 1975 to 67% in 1980 and 74% in 1985. These
rapid increases of traffic volumes are expected to be accompanied by losses to
road competition of much of the little short-haul traffic which RAN is still
carrying and by a weakening position even for medium and long hauls for
general cargo, beverages and food. Thus, freight traffic is expected to reach
1.4 million tons and 880 million ton-km by 1985, corresponding to an annual
growth rate of about 6.5% in both tonnage and ton-km.
4. THE PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A.   RAN's Investment Plan
4.01      RAN's original investment plan 1975-1980 was revised after con-
siderable discussion with the Bank focusing on the following objectives:
(a) providing sufficient transport capacity to meet expected demand; (b)
rehabilitating and upgrading existing infrastructure; and (c) improving



- il -
the balance between the timing of capital investment and the existing finan-
cial resources. The revised investment plan, established by RAN on a commit-
ment basis, was transformed into a forecast disbursement schedule for invest-
ments, covering the period 1977 to 1982 (Annex 7). Total investment is
estimated at US$211 million with contingencies. This includes ongoing proj-
ects and two projects for which financing has been secured in principle from
other donors (US$45 million), and new works (US$166 million) which can be
broken down in five categories: (i) the proposed project ($63.2 million);
(ii) routine rehabilitation, renewal of equipment and material, and studies
(US$32.5 million); (iii) procurement toward the end of the investment period
of additional motive power and rolling stock, subject to review based on the
development of actual needs (US$25.1 million); (iv) rail access to the planned
expansion of the Abidjan port, which would be subject to port expansion and
possible construction of loading facilities for the Tambao manganese ore
(US$9 million); and (v) three infrastructure projects totalling US$36.2
million (improvement of marshalling yard and rolling stock maintenance facil-
ities mainly in Abidjan, upgrading of the 82-km section from Petionara to
Tafire and doubling of track on the 22-km section Azaguie-Yapo) for which
satisfactory solutions still need to be determined through feasibility stud-
ies included in the proposed project.
4.02      The disbursements during 1977-1982 for the projects in (iv) and
(v) above are estimated at $45 million with contingencies. Agreement has
been reached with the Ivorian Government and RAN that the solutions to be
eventually adopted for these four projects will be determined in consultation
with the Bank. To ensure that the findings of the feasibility studies will be
adequately reflected in RAN's infrastructure investment, the railway has
agreed that it will not begin to implement nor incur any debt for the three
projects mentioned in para. 4.01 (v) before the findings of the studies have
been discussed with the Bank.
4.03      It will be the task of the corporate planning unit, to be set up
as part of the proposed project (para. 3.10), to review and update annually
RAN's investment plan and, based on this review, to draw up an annual in-
vestment budget to be submitted to the railway's Board of Directors. The
updating of RAN's investments plan will be made in consultation with the
Bank.
B.   The Project
4.04      All the items to be provided in the project are needed to meet
the railway's most urgent requirements.  They have been selected from among
the items of the 1978-1979 portion of the railway investment plan mentioned
above. Locomotives and freight cars to be ordered at the end of 1977 for
delivery by January 1980 are included in the project. The project comprises:
(a) the realignment of the 89-km Bouake-Petionara section;
(b) the renewal of track material on 4 km near Ouangolodougou and
provision of 60 turnouts (two-year program);



- 12
(c) track improvement in Upper Volta consisting of: (i) the
renewal of sleepers on 40 km (two-year portion of an 11-year
program covering the most northerly 222 km of the system);
(ii) the reinforcement of eroded fills; and (iii) additional
ballasting on 100 km mainly between Bobo-Dioualasso and Bereba;
(d) the renewal of track maintenance equipment and the procurement
of additional such equipment and spare parts;
(e) the procurement of 210 box cars and 18 mainline locomotives;
(f) the expansion and construction of physical training facilities,
the procurement of furniture and training equipment, and pro-
vision of technical assistance to carry out technical training
for skilled labor and supervisors;
(g) consulting services for the improvement of the railway's manage-
ment and operations and for management training; and
(h) feasibility studies for: (i) the improvement of RAN's Abidjan
marshalling yard and rolling stock maintenance facilities (Annex
10); (ii) the determination of an optimal and economically viable
solution for the proposed Petionara-Tafire infrastructure improve-
ment (Annex 10); and (iii) an evaluation of RAN's plan to double
its track from Abidjan to Agboville and, ultimately, to Bouake.
4.05      The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$63.2
million equivalent, including a foreign exchange cost of US$53.2 million
(84%). A tax exemption on the execution of the project and a customs duty
exemption on equipment and goods imported for the project will be granted
the railway. Project costs in end-1976 prices and the assumptions used to
calculate contingencies are shown in Table 2 and summarized below.



- 13 -
(CFAF 245  = US$1.00)
------CFAF Million -----   -----US$ Million-------
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
(a)  Realignment of the
Bouake-Petionara
Section                       1257     3099      4356      5.2       12.6      17.8
(b)  Renewal of track in
the Ivory Coast                 15       336      351      0.1        1.3       1.4
(c)  Track improvement in
Upper Volta                    398       781     1179      1.6        3.2       4.8
(d)  Track maintenance
equipment                        -       369      369        -        1.5       1.5
(e)  210 box cars                     -      2317     2317        -        9.5       9.5
(f)  18 main-line loco-
motives                          -      3038     3038        -       12.4      12.4
(g)  Training                        68       260      328      0.3        1.1       1.4
(h)  Consulting services             45       251      296      0.2        1.0       1.2
(i)  Feasibility studies             13        73       86       -         0.3       0.3
TOTAL BASE COST               1796    10524    12320       7.4       42.9      50.3
Physical contingencies         178       347      525      0.7        1.5       2.2
Total with physical
contingencies                 1974    10871    12845       8.1       44.4     52.5
Price contingencies            468      2153     2621      1.9        8.8      10.7
Total with all con-
tingencies                    2442    13024    15466    10.0         53.2     63.2
Improvement of the Bouake-Petionara Section
4.06      By 1978, after completion of the ongoing realignment works of
the Dimbokro-Bouake section (EIB-FED financing), nearly the whole system will
have uniform standards (500 m minimum-curve radius and 10 mm/m maximum grad-
ient) except for the Bouake-Tafire stretch (172 km) which lies between the
previously realigned section Abidjan-Bouake and the Tafire-Ouagadougou sec-
tion, which was constructed to those standards. On the Bouake-Tafire section
the track material is wearing out and must be renewed, and the subgrade must
be rehabilitated. The renewal and rehabilitation must take place within the
next few years in order to maintain traffic safety and to avoid capacity
constraints and high costs which would otherwise arise from derailments and
rail breakages. RAN plans to rebuild 162 km of this section on a new align-
ment to uniform standards providing substantial savings in operating costs and
travel time. The first part of the proposed new route, Bouake-Petionara (89
km), is the optimum solution as determined by extensive studies executed
by RAN's civil works department and reviewed by the Bank. Thus, realignment of
this section is included in the proposed project. Most of the then remaining
83-km stretch Petionara-Tafire will need track renewal and subgrade reha-
bilitation shortly thereafter and should then be upgraded to the otherwise



- 14 -
uniform standards on about 77 km. The proposed project includes funds for
studies to determine a technically and economically satisfactory solution for
this stretch.
Track Renewal in the Ivory Coast
4.07      In the Ivory Coast the track on section PK 589-593 between
Ferkessedougou and Ouangolodougou is affected by heavy corrugation which
causes track instability despite frequent maintenance. Train speed has been
reduced to avoid accidents, and maintenance and repair costs are high for
both track and rolling stock. RAN proposes replacing the track material on
this section, and the project includes funds for that purpose. Replacement of
worn-out turnouts is urgent in several places, and the 60 turnouts included in
the project correspond to a two-year program. RAN's proposals are adequate in
the interests of traffic safety, reduced maintenance and repair costs, and
increased operating speeds.
Track Improvement in Upper Volta
4.08      Several fills are badly eroded in Upper Volta, p5incipally between
Banfora and Koudougou.  On 13 eroded fills about 180,000 m  of earthworks are
needed and should be executed by contractors. RAN requested that these works
be included in the present project. Since long traffic disruptions may occur
in case of fill collapse and traffic safety may be in jeopardy, these works
have been included in the proposed project.
4.09      From PK 923, 38 km north of Bereba, to Ouagadougou (PK 1145), the
track was raid on concrete sleepers (1500 sleepers/km) at the time of its
construction (1950-1954). These sleepers are fragile and show evidence of
fatigue, particularly at the fastening holes where cracks occur. RAN is
planning to replace these with steel sleepers at a rate of 20 km per year
(11-year program). This is a traffic safety problem and should be begun
immediately; therefore the project includes 40 km of sleeper renewal (two-
year program).
4.10      After ballasting of 34 km of track north of Banfora in Upper   3
Volta, about 100 km of the line will still have the original 0.4 to 0.7 m /
meter of sandstone ballast. RAN estimates that 50,000 m of ballast are
needed to complete tMe ballasting of the line in Upper Volta to the stan-
dard volume of 0.8 m /meter, the minimum needed to avoid the lateral buckling
of a welded track. The volume of ballast on the section immediately north of
Bobo-Dioulasso was not sufficient for the welded track and was well below the
quantity stated on Chart 2. As this may cause track instability, the necessary
additional ballasting of this section has been included in the project.
Track Maintenance Equipment
4.11      RAN needs to renew track maintenance equipment, namely, four gang
cars, six light inspection cars and one heavy inspection car. Spare parts
for tamping machines are also provided for in the project. This equipment
is required ta replace obsolete equipment which is 10 to 20 years old.



- 15 -
4.12      Additional track maintenance equipment will be needed to concentrate
the track maintenance staff into larger operational units. This will result
in a reduction of 87 men out of a labor force of 657 (13.2%) with better
supervision of track labor and, consequently, an increase in productivity.
New equipment to be procured under the project consists of 2 gang cars,
2 light inspection cars, 2 heavy inspection cars, 15 trailers, and 2 bull-
dozers. Additionally, one sleeper pressing machine is included in the proj-
ect for repair of damaged steel sleepers.
Rolling Stock
4.13      RAN's need for all types of rolling stock until 1980 has been
analyzed. RAN needs 210 new box cars for delivery in 1978 to 1980 in order
to meet the expected traffic demand until 1980. This takes into account both
the renewal of obsolete rolling stock and the need for capacity increase, with
expected improvements of rolling stock productivity. Details are given in
Annex 8.
Motive Power
4.14      The project includes the procurement of 18 main-line locomotives.
The required number has been determined taking into account: (i) the grad-
ual withdrawal from long-distance service of 26 old locomotives to be used
for shunting and service traffic and the agreed retirement of 5 locomotives
which are unreliable and too costly to maintain; (ii) the increase of average
train loads made possible by the realignment works and the improvement in
operations management; (iii) the improvement in the availability and utiliza-
tion factors; and (iv) the traffic forecasts.
Training
4.15      The technical training component of the proposed project is vital
to the goals and the operational targets agreed upon by RAN and the Bank.
Its aim is to improve staff productivity, operational efficiency and quality
of service by training, retraining and upgrading about 3,000 skilled workers
and supervisors. It includes: (i) the expansion or construction of physical
training facilities in Abidjan, Bouake and Bobo-Diolasso; (ii) the purchase
of furniture and training equipment for these facilities; and (iii) the
recruitment of three expatriate personnel totaling 50 man-months. The latter
comprises one senior training specialist to replace the head of the Training
Division (TD) who is expected to retire shortly, one chief instructor for the
S&T Department, and one specialist to give pedagogical training for six new
African instructors whom RAN has agreed to provide. There are three French
technical assistants assigned to training on a full-time basis, excluding the
head of the TD, and this number should not be reduced until Africans trained
under the project can take over. This would be reviewed annually (para.
3.06). A description of the technical training component to be implemented
by the TD and cost estimates are given in Table 3 and Annex 2.



- 16 -
Consulting Services and Management Trainin&
4.16      A total of 177 man-months of consulting services are included in
the project for: (i) diagnosis of problems and preparation of a plan of
action, 15 man-months; (ii) management training, 10 man-months; (iii) de-
velopment of RAN's planning function by establishing a corporate planning
unit and a centralized statistical service, 51 man-months (para. 3.10);
(iv) establishment of an Organization and Methods division in the Opera-
tions Department, 36 man-months; (v) improvement of management and organi-
zation of RAN's administrative services, 10 man-months; (vi) 15 man-months
for complementary actions, part of which may be used for additional assis-
tance to the Motive Pcwer and Rolling Stock Department and for re-organizing
and improving management control of the Service des Wagon-Lits et Hotels de
Tourisme (SWLHT); and (vii) three feasibility studies, 40 man-months (para.
4.01).
C.   Financing Plan
4.17      Financing of the project is assured by contributions from the Gov-
ernments and RAN to cover most local costs and by grants and long-term loans
or credits from Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), IBRD and
IDA. US$1.2 million of the IDA credit would be used to finance local costs in
Upper Volta. The following table shows the allocation of funds to individual
project components:
(US$ million or equivalent)
Ivc       UPV
Component               Govt.      Govt.      RAN    CIDA    IBRD    IDA        Total
Realignment               4.2       --        2.8      3.0    13.5    -         23.5
Track renewal in IVC    0.1          --       --       0.2      1.4    -         1.7
Track rehabilitation
in UPV              --         0.6       0.4     --       --      5.2       6.2
Track maintenance
equipment                      -                 --       1.8    -          1.8
Rolling stock                  --             --      11.3      -               11.3
Locomotives               --         --       --      14.7      -      --       14.7
Training/consulting       --         --       0.7      --       3.3    --        4.0
Interest during
construction                                     --       3,0    -         3.0
Total                     4.3        0.6      3.9    29.2    23.0    5.2        66.2



- 17 -
4.18      The Ivorian and Voltaic Governments have agreed that they will
promptly provide the funds shown in the preceding table, in accordance
with RAN's Articles of Agreement. RAN's contribution of $3.9 million equi-
valent is commensurate with the railway's financial position (c.f. Chapter 6).
CIDA has agreed to contribute an amount of about $29 million to finance the
locomotives, freight cars and rails included in the project. The equivalent
of about US$13 million from CIDA's funds will be given as a grant to Upper
Volta. The rest, about US$16 million equivalent, will be lent on IDA-type
conditions to the Ivory Coast. All CIDA's funds will be on-lent to RAN at
about 4% interest with final maturities commensurate with the lifetime of the
equipment financed by CIDA. Effectiveness of the CIDA financing agreements
and the on-lending agreements are a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan and IDA credit.
4.19      The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit would be used for the rehabil-
itation and upgrading of RAN's infrastructure, including the procurement
of track maintenance equipment, for the urgent improvement of RAN's oper-
ational and managerial effectiveness through staff training and technical
assistance, and for interest during construction. In the application of RAN's
Articles of Agreement (cf. para. 6.07) the IDA credit to the Government of
Upper Volta will be apportioned as follows: $3.1 million to be given to RAN
as a grant, and $2.1 million to be on-lent to RAN on terms and conditions
identical to those of the Bank loan to RAN.
D.   Project Execution, Procurement and Disbursement
4.20      RAN is competent to carry out and supervise the project which is
expected to start in the last quarter of 1977 and be completed early in 1980.
4.21      The Bank Group-financed items will be procured by international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for a total
of US-$17.7 million, all contingencies included, with the exception of the
specific items listed below. The consulting services, technical assistance
and feasibility studies, for which consultants will be selected on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, amount to a total of US$2.6 million with
all contingencies.
4.22      The following items will be procured through local competitive
bidding in the Ivory Coast or Upper Volta, on terms and conditions which
are acceptable to the Bank: (i) ballast for Upper Volta (US$1.5 million);
(ii) reinforcement of fills in Upper Volta (US$1.8 million); (iii) furni-
ture and equipment for training (US$0.7 million) which, because of stan-
dardization with existing equipment or the small quantities involved, would
not be suitable for ICB; and (iv) construction of training facilities (US$0.7
million) too small to be suitable for ICB.
4.23      The following items will be purchased from the traditional sup-
pliers of the railway to maintaîn standardization: (i) spare parts for
existing track maintenance equipment (US$0.3 million); and (ii) fastenings for
sleepers of the type now in service (US$1.3 million). Negotiated purchases
should not increase the cost of these items as compared with ICB.



4.24      CIDA-financed rolling stock, motive power and rails will be pro-
cured from Canadian suppliers, who are competitive (US$29.2 million).
4.25      Production of ballast for the Ivory Coast, transport, supervision
of the works, track relaying and ballasting will be carried out by RAN's own
labor force (US$7.4 million equivalent).
4.26      Disbursements from the Loan account representing the estimated for-
eign cost of the various components will be on the following basis: (a) 100%
of the c.i.f. cost of imported railway equipment and material; (b) 80% of the
cost of the infrastructure, civil works and locally produced sleepers; (c) 60%
of the cost of buildings and new ballast; (d) 20% of the cost of track laying
and welding; (e) 50% of the transport cost of ballast and track material;
(f) 72% of the cost of signalling and telecommunication works; (g) 25% of the
geotechnical studies and works supervision costs; (h) 56% of the cost of build-
ings for training; (i) 100% of actual c.i.f. cost of imported furniture and
equipment for training. If such items are imported but procured through local
suppliers, 75% of the total cost will be disbursed from the Loan account;
(j) 80% of the total cost of technical assistance for training; and (k) 85%
of the total cost of other consulting services.
4.27      Disbursement from the Credit account will represent 84% of the ex-
penditures incurred for improvement of infrastructure in Upper Volta.
4.28      The estimated schedule of disbursements from the proposed Loan and
Credit is shown in Table 4. Any funds remaining in the Loan and Credit
accounts upon completion of the project will be cancelled.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      RAN's traffic is expected to increase between 1976 and 1980 by
about one-third. The project has been designed to enable RAN to efficiently
carry the larger volume of traffic by increasing the railway's capacity and
reducing its operating cost per unit of traffic. The underlying rationale
for the entire project, however, is the fact that RAN is clearly the most
economic mode of transport for the region served by the railroad, namely,
Upper Volta, southeastern Mali and fast-growing northern Ivory Coast. The
lack of relatively cheap rail transport would be an additional severe con-
straint on the development of a large part of the poorly endowed Sahel.
5.02      Comparative economie road and rail transport costs, excluding in
both cases infrastructure capital costs, are as follows. For the road, they
are CFAF 15.4 per ton-km in 1976 prices, determined on the basis of a 1976
consultants' study, whereas the corresponding costs of rail transport for
RAN's average transport distance of about 600 km are CFAF 9.6, including
transshipment costs of CFAF 0.8 per ton-km. Transporting by road the long-
distance cargo typically carried by RAN would, therefore, increase transport



- 19 -
costs by about CFAF 5.8 per ton-km or about 60%. The relatively inexpensive
rail transport has a significant beneficial effect on the development of the
region served by the railway.
5.03      All the major physical components of the project have been eval-
uated individually, and a large number of different types of benefits has
been quantified (Annex 12). Separate analyses have also been conducted
to distinguish replacement items from those that will provide additional
capacity. Shadow pricing has been used to value savings in labor in those
investments whose main justification stems from reduction in railway staff.
Shadow pricing has not been applied to construction costs and therefore the
rate of return obtained for investments involving civil works are slightly
underestimated.
B.   Realignment Bouake-Petionara
5.04      The evaluation of this investment has been divided in two parts:
(a) the merits of rehabilitating the existing line are analyzed, and then
(b) the justification of the incremental investment needed to improve the
present alignment is evaluated.
5.05      By rehabilitating the track between Bouake and Petionara, RAN
would avoid the economic consequences of an increase in the number of derail-
ments and broken rails arising from the deteriorating track and a diversion
of traffic to roads due to poor quality service. The economic rate of return
of a track renewal program is 18% assuming a useful life of 30 years.
5.06      The track realignment is designed to remove slope gradients in
excess of 10 mm/m, which will eliminate the need for double heading of heavy
trains on the section, and to reduce the curvature of the line on the Bouake-
Petionara stretch. The benefits of improving the alignment will be savings
in freight and passenger traction costs, reduction in locomotive needs and a
decrease in track maintenance costs. The incremental investment, allowing
for improving the alignment rather than mere rehabilitation, will yield a 15%
economic rate of return over a thirty-year period. The overall rate of return
for the realignment component (i.e. comparing costs and benefits of the com-
bined rehabilitation and realignment) is 17%.
C.   Track Renewal and Rehabilitation in Upper Volta
5.07      This component is justified because it will virtually eliminate the
risk of major interruptions in traffic caused by derailments and the collapse
of the platform due to the poor condition of fills. The track renewal and
rehabilitation works will allow removal of speed limitations now in effect
and will restore traffic safety. As there is much passenger traffic, safety
is a vital element, and the permanent way should be brought back to a level
of quality sufficient to avoid casualties. However, considering only the
benefits from avoiding the direct cost of derailments and interruptions to
traffic, the economic return on the renewal is 13%.



- 20 -
D.   Track Maintenance Equipment
5.08      RAN's plan to concentrate track maintenance works in larger opera-
tional units will result in better supervision of workers, improved quality of
maintenance and a substantial increase in labor productivity. As the benefits
of better maintenance of the permanent way are difficult to quantify, the
analysis has been limited to labor cost savings, evaluated at the appropriate
shadow wage rate. Separate evaluations have been made for the part of the
investment devoted to the renewal of old equipment and the part which will
serve to continue RAN's reorganization of maintenance operations. Renewal
equipment will permit RAN to sustain the level of staff reductions achieved
in track maintenance during the last years. The rate of return of this
investment is 53%. Equipment to continue the mechanization plans, while
bringing about a comparatively lower savings in staff costs, also yields a
satisfactory rate of return of 25%. The rate of return on the whole invest-
ment in track maintenance equipment is 39%.
E.   Freight Cars, Tank Cars and Locomotives
5.09      The 1977-82 investment program includes the acquisition of 340
freight cars. The project incorporates the purchase of 210 freight cars,
which will serve to renew obsolete equipment and provide RAN with enough
additional capacity to satisfy the incremental forecast demand for rail
transport to 1980. Should there be any delays or reductions in the in-
vestment program, rail traffic would be reduced and the cargo transported by
road, which is less economic.
5.10      The project calls for the acquisition of 18 main-line locomotives
covering RAN's needs until 1980. It is estimated that about six of these
locomotives will to replace locomotives to be scrapped or withdrawn from
long-distance service; the remaining 12 will provide the additional traction
capacity needed for the new freight and tank cars.
5.11      The acquisition of locomotives and freight cars plus 40 tank cars
to be purchased by the oil companies will permit RAN to provide enough capa-
city to satisfy the traffic demand by 1980. If traffic materializes as fore-
cast, new equipment can be procured in time to cope with traffie demand for
1981 and beyond.  The aggregate rate of return for the rolling stock and
motive power investment is estimated at 28%, the rate of return on the freight
cars and associated locomotives at 26%, the rate of return on the tank cars
and locomotives at 30%, and the rate of return on locomotives purchased to
replace existing equipment at 36%.
F.   Sensitivity Analysis
5.12      All the above components of the project have been separately sub-
jected to sensitivity analysis under the following assumptions: (a) freight
traffic increase beyond the 1976 level only 50% of forecast; (b) rail transport
costs 10% higher than estimated, due to railway inefficiencies; (c) investment
costs 10% higher than estimated (in addition to the physical contingencies
already included, see para. 4.05). The simultaneous occurrence of these
conditions is highly improbable, but in such an event the following rates of



- 21 -
return would result: 13% on the realignment Bouake-Tafire; 12% on track
renewal and rehabilitation in Upper Volta; 35% on track maintenance equip-
ment; and 21% on the procurement of locomotives and rolling stock. All the
resulting minimum rates of return are satisfactory. The rates of return are
given in Table 5.
G.   Total Proiect
5.13      In addition to the benefits generated by individual project com-
ponents as described, the project will produce substantial unquantified
benefits. In particular, it is expected that the training and technical
assistance components will make a major contribution toward improving the
efficiency and quality of RAN's operations and management. On the basis
of the quantified benefits, the overall economic return of the project
excluding the training and consulting components is 23%.
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Past and Present Position
6.01      RAN's operating revenue increased by 170% from 1970 to 1976, cor-
responding to an annual growth rate of 18%. About one-third of this growth
vas generated by a higher volume of traffic, and about two-thirds by tariff
increases.  Tariffs, on the average, nearly doubled in this six-year period.
Operating expenses, however, kept pace with the rapid growth of revenue, due
mostly to inflationary cost increases. Staff costs per employee, for example,
growing fairly regularly each year, increased virtually at the same rate as
the railway's tariffs. The net result is that RAN's working ratio fluctuated
considerably during the period and ended only slightly better than it began
(84% vs. 86%).
6.02      RAN's income accounts and balance sheets for the period 1970 to
1976 are given in Tables 6 and 7 and summarized below:



-22 -
(in CFAF Million)
1970            1973        1976
Income Accounts
Operating revenue                        4061            6093         10943
Working expenses                         3486            4926          9194
Cash generated from operations            575             1167         1749
Depreciation                               696             998          1329
Net operating revenue (loss)              (121)            169           420
Interest charges                            64             198           775
Government subsidies                       233             290           809
Net surplus                                 48             261           454
Working ratio                               86%             81%           84%
Operating ratio                            103%             97%           96%
Debt service                                64             376          1157
Debt service coverage                      9.Ox            3.1x          1.5x
Balance Sheets
Net fixed assets                         15033           19472         30994
Net current assets                         673            (303)         1350
Long-term debt                            1127            3818         14570
Equity                                   14575           15521         20924
Current ratio                              1.6             0.9           1.3
Liquid ratio                               1.1             0.4           1.0
Debt/Equity ratio                         7/93           20/80         41/59
6.03      Tariff increases have in general been timely and sufficiently high
to cope with inflationary cost increases.  The most recent rate increases in
January and March 1977, averaging nearly 14% and expected to generate in 1977
additional revenue of about 12%, even exceed inflationary cost increases ex-
pected for 1977.  Firm conclusions on the adequacy of the tariff structure
will be possible once RAN's costing system is operational (paras. 3.08 and
6.04). Present knowledge indicates that the bulk of RAN's cash generation
stems from passenger traffic and a few commodities such as petroleum prod-
ucts and general cargo.  All tariffs appear to cover at least marginal costs.
RAN has authority to conclude contracts including special rate arrangements
with large customers and generally makes adequate use of this facility. Com-
parisons of road vs. rail transport cost (Annex 6) indicate that RAN has a
significant coast advantage over road competition for long hauls and even for
relatively short hauls when rail transport does not necessitate additional
costs for transshipment and on-carriage by road.



- 23 -
6.04      Since the railway calculated its depreciation allowances in earlier
years as an appropriation to a renewal fund, they have been recalculated
for this report on an accrual basis. For the past two years RAN has cal-
culated its depreciation accounts on a commercial basis at realistic rates.
In 1976 depreciation amounted to 3.7% of the book value of average gross
fixed assets in service.   Assets, however, are for the most part valued
at acquisition cost, and only small items have recently been revalued at
replacement cost. RAN's consultants, Etudes et Organisation, France, have
proposed using replacement values to be updated annually as a basis for
calculating depreciation. The railway agreed with the consultants' proposal
limiting the use of replacement values, at least for an initial trial period,
in the cost accounting system now being introduced. A revaluation of assets
at replacement cost is underway. RAN's proposal is acceptable to the Bank as
the forthcoming cost accounting system will be RAN's major management instru-
ment for cost control, tariff setting, and to a lesser extent, investment
planning. RAN's proposal will be implemented by June 30, 1978, with a view
to possibly generalizing at a later stage the use of replacement costs in
RAN's accounting system including its balance sheets and income statements.
6.05      RAN's interest and debt service charges were very small until
1971 and grew rapidly thereafter due to an increase of the volume of invest-
ment, accompanied by only a small increase in cash generation from operations.
Therefore, borrowing increased at a much more rapid pace than before at partly
medium-soft and partly rather severe commercial-type terms with final matu-
rities after 8 to 10 years. RAN's financial position, which was acceptable
until about 1972 in the context of comparatively amall volumes of borrowing
and investment, deteriorated thereafter as indicated by a reduction of the
debt service coverage ratio from 10.4 in 1972 to 1.5 in 1976. Concurrently,
net current assets were drawn down, accompanied by the use of bank overdraft
facilities of about CFAF 1.5 billion at the end of 1976. Delayed payments
of Government contributions (para. 6.07) and prefinancing of investments on
long-term borrowings also strained the railway's liquidity.
6.06      Investment has concentrated on necessary renewal and upgrading
of existing infrastructure and on procurement of rolling stock and motive
power. Attention has focussed on equipment for passenger service and some-
what neglected freight traffic requirements. Since additional infrastructure
renewal and upgrading are necessary and substantial amounts of funds are
also needed to modernize and increase freight transport capacity, RAN's
investment volume will remain high until at least 1979. Financing of RAN's
basically sound investment program for 1977-1982 can, however, only remain
financially sound if RAN's cash generation from operations is massively
increased and if the railway's debt structure is improved through arranging
future loans on terms involving longer grace and repayment periods. The
analysis of RAN's future financial situation will concentrate on these issues.
6.07      RAN's Articles of Agreement stipulate that the respective Govern-
ments will pay the entire cost of additions to infrastructure, such as new
lines, and that they will also (Article 12) contribute towards the costs
incurred by RAN for maintenance, renewal and reconstruction of track, special
works, signalling and telecommunications. The latter contributions amount



- 24 -
to 60% of the costs incurred by RAN for the above purposes, each country
having to contribute only to costs incurred on its territory. That part of
the contributions corresponding to 60% of RAN's current maintenance costs
for ways and works is considered by the railway as a part of its operating
revenue. It is shown in this report as a non-operating subsidy-type revenue
to produce a more realistic analysis. The contributions to RAN's cost for
capital investment in additional infrastructure, renewal and reconstruction of
infrastructure have until recently been considered by the railway as a source
of equity capital and the tables on past and forecast balance sheets contained
in this report use this procedure, which is adequate. RAN, however, adopted
for its 1975 balance sheet a new procedure which eliminates these types of
contributions from both net assets and equity through deducting them from
gross assets. This divergence in balance-sheet presentation from appropriate
accounting principles tends to produce a serious discrepancy between the
amounts of assets and equity shown in RAN's books and the amounts actually
invested in the railway. RAN agreed to remedy this situation by submitting
to the Bank by March 1978 a report prepared by its auditors proposing adequate
solutions to the above problem and, thereafter, implementing the auditors'
recommendations.
B.   Future Financial Position
6.08      RAN's future financial position and the scope for management action
to improve it are constrained by a number of parameters, including: rather
strong road competition, the expected difficulty in achieving rapid productiv-
ity increases once some apparent overstaffing is absorbed, the need for rela-
tively heavy capital investment to maintain the railway's competitiveness, and
the scarcity of concessional funds, leading in the past to an increasing use
of commercial borrowing. The Bank and the railway have discussed and agreed
upon the basic elements of a corporate plan which maintains RAN's financial
viability and deals adequately with the above constraints.
6.09      Road transport competition has been dealt with earlier in the
report. Financially, the most relevant fact is that the ability of RAN to
increase tariffs in excess of inflationary cost increases is uncertain and
may be quite limited. The exact limits are not known and, due to the complex
nature of rail/road competition in the region served by the railway, cannot
be known with a sufficient degree of reliability. As excessive railway
tariff increases might jeopardize the demand for rail transport, a rather
prudent approach has been agreed upon. It consists in rate increases to
offset inflationary cost increases estimated at 8% p.a. and, additionally,
to generate cumulative revenue increases in constant prices of about 18% in
three steps of about 4% in 1977 and about 6.5% in each of the years 1978 and
1979. Thereafter, rate increases will suffice to maintain a working ratio of
73% (para. 6.12). Rate increases for 1977 commensurate with the above policy
have been implemented.
6.10      RAN's future working expenses are largely a function of staff costs
and, more precisely, the total number of staff, as the railway's influence on
costs per man employed is presently small due to a well-established system of
fairly automatic cost-of-living, merit and seniority increases. Agreements



- 25 -
reached to limit increases in staff numbers have been spelled out in para.
3.05. Future working expenses are further determined by timely and successful
implementation of the operational plan of action discussed earlier in this
report.
6.11      There is little scope to reduce further the investment program for
the period 1977-1982 without jeopardizing RAN's competiveness and its capacity
needs, bearing in mind that implementation of several projects will be subject
to the findings of studies included in the proposed project (para. 4.02).
There is, however, a need to ensure that the terms and conditions of RAN's
borrowing are satisfactory and that its debt service coverage is maintained at
an acceptable level. Agreement was therefore reached during negotiations on
a debt limitation based on a minimum debt service coverage of 1.5 from 1977
onwards.
6.12      Assuming that the actions outlined above are implemented as planned
and traffic materializes as foreseen in Chapter 3, RAN's forecast income
accounts and balance sheets should develop as indicated in Tables 8 and 9 and
summarized below (cf. Annex 12 for assumptions used).
--------(in CFAF Million)----------
1976       1978        1979        1982
Income Accounts
Operating revenue                       10943        17005        20690      31960
Working expenses                        10523        15109        17333      26428
Cash generation from operations          1749         3816         5567       8652
Depreciation                             1329         1920         2210       3120
Net operating revenue                     420         1896         3357       5532
Interest charges                          775         1519         1477       2012
Government subsidies                      809          926         1030        523
Net surplus (loss)                        454         1303         2910       4043
Working ratio                              84%          78%          73%        73%
Operating ratio                            96%          89%          84%        83%
Debt service                              1157        2125         2670       4216
Debt service coverage                      1.5x        1.8x         2.1x       2.1x
Balance Sheets
Net fixed assets                        30994        48816        53935      67162
Net current assets                        1350        2846         5590       6210
Long term debt                          14570        27160        29595      31603
Equity                                  20924        30462        36940      49369
Current ratio                             1.3          1.6          2.6        2.3
Liquid ratio                               1.0          1.2         1.9        1.6
Debt/equity ratio                       41/59        47/53        44/56      39/61



- 26 -
6.13      The above figures indicate a rapid improvement of RAN's financial
position by 1978, and achievement of a satisfactory earning situation by
1979. Successful implementation of the strategy outlined in the preceding
paragraphs (6.08-6.11) would be reflected in attainment of the working ratios
included in the above table. Agreement was reached that RAN will (i) take
all measures necessary to ensure that its working ratio will not exceed 78%
in 1978 and 75% thereafter; and (ii) use for planning purposes after 1978
a working ratio not exceeding 73%. Achievement of this target would be
satisfactory to the Bank, bearing in mind that an in-depth analysis of RAN's
long-term goals and financial targets will be conducted during the next few
years (para. 6.14).
6.14      The above table assumes, with regard to Government contributions,
that: (i) the Governments will pay to RAN, mostly in 1978, the amounts which
they owe the railway for maintenance and renewal works executed in earlier
years and estimated at CFAF 3.6 billion as of end-1977; (ii) from 1977 on-
wards (1978 for Upper Volta) the Governments will pay their contributions
for maintenance and renewal by June of the following year; (iii) the cost
of additional infrastructure will be reimbursed to RAN pari passu with the
expenses incurred by the railway; and (iv) in 1979 the contribution system
will be renegotiated between the Governments and RAN with a view to substan-
tially reducing or even eliminating contribution payments. A reduction by
two-thirds, from 1980 onwards has been assumed (cf. Annex 12).  The measures
under (i), (ii), and (iii) above are needed to remedy RAN's present cash
shortages due inter alia to a lack of sufficiently rigorous control over
RAN's financial management by its Board of Directors, regarding in particular
the financing of capital investments with short-term borrowings.  Their
implementation was agreed upon at negotiations. Concerning (iv), it was
agreed that discussions between RAN and the Governments on the appropriate
level of government contributions will be concluded by the end of 1979, in
consultation with the Bank. The financial forecasts show that a reduction
of contributions may be possible at that time. Moreover, the reduction may
be justified by the findings of the transport user-charge study mentioned in
para. 2.08. This study, which will be finalized by March 1979, and the work
of RAN's own planning unit implemented under the proposed project will form
an adequate basis to determine more precisely RAN's long-term goals and
financial targets.
6.15      The debt-service coverage does not drop below 1.8 after 1977,
which is satisfactory, and the debt/equity ratio reaches its peak of 48/52
in 1978, which is acceptable. A statement of sources and application of
funds for the period 1977-1982 is shown in Table 10, and the assumptions
used are spelled out in Annex 12. The following is a summary for the proj-
ect period (1977-1980):



- 27 -
(CFAF billion)      (%)
Sources:
Cash generated from operations                    18.1           36
Long-term borrowing                               19.6           39
Government contributions                          12.6           25
Total Funds Available                        50.3          100
Applications:
Capital investment                                35.0           70
Debt service                                      10.4           21
Increase of cash minus decrease of
receivables from Governments                     3.2            6
Increase of other working capital                  1.7            3
Total Funds Applied                          50.3          100
6.16      During the project period, capital investment is expected to be
financed 56% through borrowing, 27% through Government contributions, which
will additionally finance RAN's cash increase back to a normal level, and 17%
through RAN's cash generation from operation after deducting from the latter
interest and debt amortization payments and the increase in working capital.
RAN's cash generation will thus be sufficient to ensure that the railway can
finance its contribution to the cost of the proposed project and to other
investment.
C.   Sensitivity Analysis
6.17      The above description of RAN's future financial position is con-
sidered to be realistic and achievable. There are, however, two major risks,
namely: a shortfall in expected freight traffic volumes, caused mainly by
RAN's lower than expected efficiency, and increases of operating costs, in
particular staff costs, in excess of the forecasts. Assuming in 1980 that
for these two parameters the sensitivity assumptions made in the economic
analysis (para. 5.12) materialize simultaneously, RAN's cash generation
from operations would be reduced by about CFAF 3.6 billion in this year, and
the railway would cover only 90% of its debt service through cash generated
from operations, thus necessitating subsidies. The above sensitivity assump-
tions are, however, rather severe, and there would probably be scope for
remedial action to at least partially offset detrimental developments. Such
action would be determined in consultation with the Bank. There remains,
nevertheless, a risk of a cash shortfall, in particular if contribution
payments were severely reduced. The Governments agreed to provide additional
subsidies or such other financial support for RAN as may be appropriate to
protect the railway's cash position should the need arise.



- 28
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement has been reached on the following principal items:
(i)  with the Ivorian and/or Voltaic Governments:
(a)  the planning and research unit presently being set up
in the Ivorian Ministry of Transport and Public Works
will undertake a study to be completed by March 1979,
on terms satisfactory to the Bank, to: (i) analyze the
possible extent of uneconomic distortions of the modal
allocation of freight traffic between rail and road due
to the Governments' subsidization and rate setting for
both modes, and (ii) recommend remedial action; the
Voltaic Ministry of Transport will participate in this
study (para. 2.08);
(b)  promptly upon completion of the studies on the projects
listed in para. 4.01(v), the Ivorian Government will
consult with the Bank and the railway on the solutions
to be adopted and their timing (para. 4.02);
(c)  the Governments will promptly provide their con-
tribution to project financing (para. 4.18);
(d)  the Ivory Coast will pay to RAN:
(i)  by April 1978 the amounts shown in RAN's 1976
balance sheet as receivable from the Ivory Coast;
(ii) from 1977 onwards by June of the following year
the Ivory Coast's share of RAN's cost of main-
tenance and renewal of ways and works; and
(iii)  promptly upon their incurrence, RAN's costs for
extension of its infrastructure in the Ivory Coast
(para. 6.14);
(e) Upper Volta will pay to RAN:
(i)  by December 1979 the amounts shown in RAN's 1977
balance sheet as receivable from Upper Volta;
(ii) from 1978 onwards by June of the following year
Upper Volta's share of RAN's cost of maintenance
and renewal of ways and works; and
(iii)  promptly upon their incurrence, RAN's costs for
extension of its infrastructure in Upper Volta
(para. 6.14);



- 29 -
(f) by December 1979 the Governments and RAN will review with
the Bank the present system of contributions with a view
to making appropriate adjustments (para. 6.14); and
(g)  the Governnents will provide subsidies or such other
financial support for RAN as may be appropriate to
protect the railway's cash position should the need
arise (para. 6.16).
(ïi) with RAN:
(a) the railway will make every effort to maintain through
end-1978 a maximum staff, excluding temporary staff for
force account works, of 5,200 with necessary additional
manpower in somie departments being offset by reduction
in others (para. 3.05);
(b)  RAN will submit by June 1978 a draft five-year manpower
plan covering the period 1978 to 1982 (para. 3.05);
(c) RAN will consult annually with the Bank on the rail-
way's expected technical assistance requirements and
on measures necessary to meet them (para. 3.06);
(d) RAN's proposed operational and investment budgets will
be submitted to the Bank for review at least 30 days
before the date scheduled for consideration by RAN's
Board, but in any event not later than November 30 of
the year preceeding the fiscal year covered by the
budgets. The same applies mutatis mutandis to any
amendments proposed to be made during the year to the
investment budget (para. 3.09);
(e)  from 1977 onwards RAN's accounts will be audited by
qualified, independent auditors in accordance with
generally accepted auditing principles (para. 3.11);
(f) the operational plan of action including, inter alia,
freight traffic targets (Annex 4) has been incor-
porated in the proposed Loan Agreement (para. 3.15);
(g) promptly upon completion of the respective studies, RAN
will consult with the Bank on the solutions to be adopted
and their timing for the projects listed in para. 4.01(v);
and RAN will not begin to implement nor incur any debt for
these projects before such consultations (para. 4.02);
(h) RAN's 5-year investment plan will be updated annually
and extended by one year. The draft of the updated
plan will be submitted for review to the Bank (para.
4.03);



- 30 -
(i) RAN's existing line between Bouake and Petionara
will be abandoned, with reusable material being
salvaged, after completion of the new line (para.
4.06);
(j) RAN will discontinue using the existing 5 locomo-
tives of the type CC2400 in regular main-line
operations not later than at final delivery of
the locomotives included in the project, except
for emergencies (para. 4.14);
(k) RAN will make available a sufficient number of ex-
perienced African technicians in order to have six
trained instructors and will ensure that adequate
numbers of personnel are released from operational
departments for training (para. 4.15);
(1) RAN will determine by June 30, 1978, and thereafter
annually update, the replacement values of its
assets. The resulting asset valuations will be
used in RAN's accounting system, at least for the
purpose of cost accounting (para. 6.04);
(m)  RAN will by March 1978 submit to the Bank a report,
prepared by its auditors or other qualified experts,
recommending adequate action to maintain appropriate
accounting principles in RAN's balance sheet presen-
tation; RAN will subsequently implement the auditors'
recommendations (para. 6.07);
(n)  RAN will from 1977 onwards not incur any debt if
its debt service coverage ratio does not exceed
1.5, except if the Bank otherwise agrees (para.
6.11); and
(o) RAN will (i) take necessary measures, including but
not limited to rate increases, to achieve working
ratios of not more than 78% in 1978 and 75% there-
after; and (ii) use for planning purposes after 1978
a working ratio not exceeding 73% (para. 6.13).
7.02      Section 6.07 of the "Contrat de Financement" dated April 19, 1974
between the European Community, EIB and RAN requires RAN to obtain EIB's
agreement before incurring any medium- or long-term debt. EIB has agreed
to the Bank loan and IDA credit.



- 31 -
7.03      Effectiveness of financing and on-lending agreements to be con-
cluded between the Governments, RAN and CIDA will be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed loan and credit (para. 4.18). Conclusion of an
onlending agreement for the proposed IDA credit between Upper Volta and RAN,
on terms and conditions spelled out in para. 4.19, will be an additional
condition of effectiveness for the proposed loan and credit.
7.04      The proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$5.2 million
to the Government of Upper Volta and a Bank loan of US$23 million to RAN with
the Government of the Ivory Coast as a guarantor for a period of 17 years,
including a grace period of 4 years. The Government of Upper Volta would
guarantee jointly and severally with the Ivory Coast a portion of the loan,
amounting to about US$6 million and corresponding to items which are not
exclusively located in the Ivory Coast.
September 1977






TABLE 1
IVORY COAST - UPPER VOLTA                                           page 1
REGIE ABIDJAN-NIGER (R.A.N.)
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Suismary of OPerating Statistics 1970-1976   1/
1970           1971,          1972           1973           1974           1975           1976  2/
A.  Traffict
Number of passengers (1000)                  2,564          2,630          2,595          2,827          2,931          3,006         3,254
Passenger-kilometers (Millions)                625            700            777            883            918            945         1,040
Freight tonnage (1000 T)                       748            794            866            955            787            717           866
Ton-kilometers (Millions)                     402            447             479            552            527            442           558
Traffic units (Tskm + Pass.-km -
Millions)                    1,027          1,147          1,256          1,435          1,445          1,387         1,598
Gross Ton-kilometers (1000 G.T.km)
- Express trains                        136,155        163,152        155,302        180,795        191,455        209,622        226,701
- Railcars                              196,476        188,572        185,350        187,016        196,644        208,411        251,847
- Freight trains                        870,259        914,121        974,692      1,095,168      1,053,455        927,709    1,051,062
- Service trains and others              12.319         15.262         26.920         16 789         17.425         32,302         29,287
Total Gross T.km                        1,215,269      1,281,107      1,342,264      1,479,768      1,458,979       1,378,044     1,558,-897
B. Onerations
(1) Train-kilometers (1000 km)
- Express trains                          640            616            757            876            868            869            880
- Railcars                              1,678          1,772          1,755          1,930          2,108          2,186          2,429
- Freight trains                        1,668          1,744          1,829          2,229          2,234          2,022          2,240
- Service trains and others               142            238            248            136             76              73            77
Total Tr.km                                 4,128          4,370          4,589           5,171          5,286          5,150         5,626
(2) Motive pover mileage (km)
- -Maànliue locomotives
CC 1000                             1,471,497      1,498,773      1,398,314      1,446,918      1,505,504      1,279,783        798,342
Cc 1500                               842,752        903,754        809,973        729,595        592,119        519,994        505,534
CC 2400                               465,332        516,273        398,866        447,734        360,448        259,175        145,044
B-BB 1800                               -              3.338        562.672        770.812        720.580        887.257      1.733.373
Total mainline locomotives              2,779,491      2,922,138      3,169,825      3,395,059      3,178,651      2,946,209      3,182,293
- Shunters                                348,625        407,023        429,167        442,722        488,293        466,207        487,990
- Railcars
ZE 130-160                          1,677,673      1,771,595      1,755,199      1,930,026      2,108,313      2,180,731      1,719,352
ZE 200                                  -              -              -              -              -               3.585       523.543
Total railcars                          1,677,673      1,771,595      1,755,199      1,930,026      2,108,313      2,184,316      2,242,895
(3) Rolling stock mileage (km)
- Freight cars
Cattle                         18,865,697      6,395,366      7,302,607      6,436,248      6,288,397      5,783,231      3,998,787
Box cars                       18,65,         13,676,216    13,507,173    14,593,878    14,258,202    13,585,911    13,682,601
Groupage cars                   2,570,139      2,157,614      1,848,843      3,375,384      3,576,450      2,583,600      2,392,040
Gondolas                          712,052        676,982      1,244,975      2,283,150      2,230,807      1,880,453      3,064,047
Flat cars                       3,578,923      2,689,436      4,079,551      3,455,101      3,096,786      2,745,229      3,463,419
Service cars                      676,997        758,012      1,397,470        852,005        832,401      1,639,318      1,639,323
Privately owned cars            5.695,636      6.036.098      6,126.144      6.769.934      6.614.200      5.902.864      6.460.806
Total freight cars                     32,099,444    32,389,724    35,499,763    37,765,700    36,897,243    34,120,656    34,701,023
Ratio loaded car mileage                   0.7            0.7            0,7             0,7            0,7            0.7
total mileage                        *°
- Passenger coaches
lIst classa               )                       484,368        229,160        362,875        362,875        844,559        824,693
. Sleeping cars            (      1,426,922        572,898        571,980        706,391        839,604      1,313,087      1,413.054
Dining cars              )                       355.298        349,844        358,473     - 419,802         617,576        746,697
2nd class                       2,132,009      2,472.141      1,091,170      1,778,620      1.394,752      5,335,804      5,748,617
Baggage vans                      998,247      1,014,372        941,276      1,373,621      1,674,620      1,321,596      1,434,793
Trailers                        7.092.502      7.010.374      8.819.536      8.860,103      9.464.575      7,030,779      7.200.590
Total passenger coaches and
Baggage vans                           11,649,680    11,909,451    11,993,966    13,440,083    14,156,228    16,463,401    17,368,444
1/ Source:  RAN's Operations Department except othervise specified.
2/ Source:  RAN's provisional statistics for 1976.



TABLE 
Page 2
1970             1971             1972             1973              1974             1975              1976
(4) Motive power fleet (as of December 31)
- Mainline locomotives
CC 1000                                               20                20               20               20                20               18                17
CC 1500                                                 8                8                8                 8                8                8                 8
Cc 2400                                                 6                6                6                 6                5                 5                5
B-BB 1800                                              0                 2                6                6                 8               10                17
Total                                                      34               36               40                40               41                41               47
- Shonters (Total)                                        20                23               23               24                29               29                29
- Railcars
ZE 130-160                                             15               18               18                18               17                17               16
ZE 200                                                 0                 O                0                                  O                 1 _0
Total                                                      15               18               18                18               17                18               26
(5) Rolling stock (as of December 31;
September 30 for 1976)
- Freight cars il
Cattle ad box cars                                  634              627               621              689               692              690              673
Groupage cars                                        8                 8               10                10               14                12
G.Gondolas                                           97              134              188               186              188              209               209
Plat cars                                          254               254              203              204               187              191               192
. Service cars                                        47               61                66               63                73              102                96
-  Privately owned                                    74                85               88               93                99              115               115
Passenger vehicles
P ..  clans                                           15                15               15               15                13               22                21
2nd class                                           84                91               94              104               103              103               143
B aaggage vans                                         8                 8               10               10                14               12                12
(6) Productivity
- Passenger-km per km (1000)                              545              611              677               769              800               824              907
Ton-kilometer per km (1000)                             343              381              408               471              449               385              475
Average daily mileage of freight cars                    61.5             63.7              78.9             86.5             79.1              59.9             66.9
Average 1oad per Ioaded freight cars                     16.1             17.3              18.0             19.1             18.5              19.8             20.8
Annual total number of freight cars loaded          46,569            45,891           47,839            50,001           42,578            35,281           40,951
Net ton-kîlometers per train-km (frelght)               241              256              261               247              235               218              241
Gross ton-kilometers per train-km  (freight)            521              524               532              491              471               459              470
Gross ton-kilometers per express train-km               212              264              205               206              220               241              258
- Gross ton-kilometers per railcar-km                     117              106              105                96               93                95              104
Average monthly mlleage of the motive power
. Cc 1000                                          6,131            6,245             5,826            6,029             6,272            5,462            3,913
CC 1500                                          8,779             9,414            8,437            7,600             6,166            5,417             5,265
CC 2400                                          6,463             7,170            5,540            6,619             6,074            4,320             2,417
B-BB 1800                                          --                834           11,483           10,706             7,506            7,394             8,496
Railcars                                         9,320             8,202            8,126            8,935             9,760           10,689            13,318
- Availabi.ity of motive pover (7.)  2/
cC 1000                                              90.5             80.2             95.0              78.1             87.0              77.8             65
Cc 1500                                             84.8              82.9             80.7              76.2             44.4              62.5             75
CC 2400                                              72.3             76.6             61.3              55.2             68.5              20.0             20
B-BB 1800                                            --               86.3             92.3              63.2             79.4              58.8             59
- Availability of rolling stock (%)
Freight cars
Cattle and nom cars                              94                95               97                98               94                93             N.A.
Gondolas                                         98                98               98                96               97                93             N.A.
Flatcars                                         97                96               96                99               98               89              N.A.
Service cars                                     98                97               96               100               98                71.5           N.A.
Tank cars                                        96                98              100               100               97               98              N.A.
1/  Does not include the leased cars (20 tank cars, 5 box cars and 2 flat cars as of the end nf September 1976).
2/  Source:  RAN's annual reports for 1970-1974; MT Department for 1975; RAN's provissonal statistics for 1976.



TABLE 1
page 3
1970             1971              1972               1973              1974              1975              1976
- Turnaround time   f freight cars  V
. Cattle cars                                          --                --                --                 10.1               13.4              16.2           N.A.
. Box cars                                             --                --                --                 10.1               13.9              16.6           N.A.
. Tank cars                                            --                --                --                1.0                14.7              15.2           N.A.
- Average train delays (<inotes)
* Passenger trains                                    N.A.              N.A.              N,A.              N.A.              N.A.                 31                27  1/
* Freight trains                                      N.A.              N.A.              N.A.              N.A.              N.A.               294               231  1/
C. Personnel
Noober of staff  2/                                  4,075             4,150             4,350             4,472             4,500             4,821             4,848
Traffic onits p-r permanent emplsyse
(1000 T.U.)                                       252               276              289                321               321               288               330
Technical assistance  3/                                68                80                79                75                 72                71                70
Instructor/trainees                                  19/48             19/43             19/42             19/55             19/50             20/83            24/130  1/
1/  Statistios  ot available.  The figures have been estic,ted by Bank's mission on the basis of data collected in the field.
2/  Temporary staff for operations excloded.
3/ Includes all expatriates (technical assistance, military and Compagnie Internationale des Wagons-Lits).
Augost 1977






Table 2
page 1
IVORY COAST - UPPER VOLTA - REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Total Project Cost
(January 1977 Prices)
CFAF Million               US$ Million 1V
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
(a) Realignment of the Bouaké-
Petionara Section
- Project preparation                3         -        3      0.01         -     0.01
- Infrastructure (mainline)        277      1110    1387       1.13      4.53    5.66
- Infrastructure (stations)         26       103      129      0.11      0.42    0.53
- Rails                             -         601     601        -       2.45    2.45
- Other track material              78        610     688      0.32      2.49    2.81
- Ballast                          166       250      416      0.68      1.02    1.70
- Track laying & welding           430       107      537      1.76      0.44    2.20
- Transport                         37         37      74      0.15      0.15    0.30
- Signalling & telecommunications 38           99     137      0.16      0.40    0.56
- Station buildings & houses        98       147      245      0.40      0.60    1.00
- Geotechnical survey &
works supervision              104        35      139     0.42       0.14    0.56
Sub-total                       1257      3099    4356      5.14      12.64   17.78
(b) Track renewal in the Ivory
Coast (mainline & turnouts)
- Rails                             -          26      26        -       0.10    0.10
- Other track material              -         36       36        -       0.15    0.15
- Track laying & welding            15          4      19      0.06      0.02    0.08
- Turnouts & spares                 -        270      270        -       1.10    1.10
Sub-total                         15       336      351     0.06       1.37    1.43
(c) Track improvement in
Upper Volta
- Sleepers renewal (40 km)          48       362      410     0.20       1.48    1.68
- Reinforcement of fills
(180,000 m3)                   66        262     328      0.27       1.07    1.34
- Ballasting (50,000 m3)           284       157      441     1.16       0.64    1.80
Sub-total                        398       781    1179      1.63       3.19    4.82
1/ Exchange rate: US$1.0 = CFAF 245.



Table 2
Page 2
CFAF Million                 US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
(d) Track maintenance
equipment                           -        369      369        -       1.51    S51
(e)  210 box cars                        -       2317    2317         -       9.46    9.46
(f)  18 main-line locomotives            -       3038    3038         -      12.40   12.40
(g)  Training                            68        260     328      0.28       1.06    1.34
(h) Consulting services
(137 man-months)                 45        251      296     0.18       1.03    1.21
(i) Feasibility studies
(40 man-months)                   13        73       86     0.05       0.30    0.35
Total base cost(end-1976)         1796     10524   12320       7.34     42.96   50.30
(j)  Physical contingencies             178        347     525      0.73       1.42    2.15
Total with physical
contingencies                   1974     10871   12845      8.07      44.38   52.45
(k)  Price Contingencies                468       2153    2621      1.91      8.79   10.70
Total with all
contingencies                   2442     13024   15466       9.98     53.17   63.15
Notes:
1.  Physical contingencies:                  2.  Price contingencies:
- Civil works: 10%
- Track material : 2%                                   Equipment  Civil Works  ConsultirE
(2% of additional material is                                                    Service<
included in the quantities to be
ordered for possible damaged or lost    1977-79:    7.5Xe            92 9?
material during transportation
or trans-shipments)                       1980-85:    7  Z           8/e           8%
- Motive power, rolling stock,
track maintenance equipment: nil
- Other equipment: 10%
- Consulting services: 15%
- Other services : 10%



Table 2
Page 3
Total Project Cost Summary
(including contingencies)
CFAF Million                   US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total
(a) Realignment of the Bouaké-
Petionara section                 1706       4049    5755         7.0      16.5    23.5
(b) Renewal of track material
in the Ivory Coast                  20        386      406       0.1        1.6      1.7
(c) Improvement of track infra-
structure and superstructure
in Upper Volta                     544        986    1530        2.2        4.0      6.2
(d)  Track maintenance equipment         -         434      434         -        1.8      1.8
(e)  210 box cars                        -        2757    2757                  11.3    11.3
(f)  18 locomotives                      -        3614    3614          -       14.7    14.7
(g) Training (including 50 man-
months for technical assistance)  93          355      448        0.4       1.4      1.8
(h)  Consulting services                 62        347      409        0.2       1.5      1.7
(i)  Feasibility studies                 17         96      113        0.1       0.4      0.5
2442     13024   15466        10.0      53.2    63.2



Summary of Project Cost
(US$ Million)
Base Cost            Cost with Physical Contingencies  Cost with All Contingencies
Local   Foreign   Total           Local   Foreign   Total           Local   Foreign   Total
(a) Realignment of the Bouaké-
Petionara section
- Rails                           -         2.4     2.4             -         2.5      2.5            -         3.0     3.0
- Other track material           0.3        2.5     2.8            0.3        2.6      2.9           0.4        3.0     3.4
- Works & miscellaneous          4.9        7.7    12.6            5.4        8.4    13.8            6.6       10.5    17.1
Sub-total                      5.2      12.6    17.8             5.7       13.5    19.2            7.0      16.5    23.5
(b) Track renewal in the
Ivory Coast (mainline &
turnouts)
- Rails                           -         0.1     0.1             -         0.1      0.1            -         0.2     0.2
- Others                         0.1        1.2     1.3            0.1        1.3      1.4           0.1        1.4     1.5
Sub-total                      0.1        1.3     1.4            0.1        1.4      1.5           0.1        1.6      1.7
(c) Track improvement in
Upper Volta                      1.6        3.2     4.8             1.8       3.4      5.2           2.2        4.0      6.2
(d)  Track maintenance equipment       -         1.5     1.5              -        1.5      1.5            -         1.8      1.8
(e)  210 box cars                      -         9.5     9.5              -        9.5      9.5            -        11.3    11.3
(f)  18 main-line locomotives          -        12.4    12.4              -       12.4    12.4             -        14.7    14.7
(g)  Training                         0.3        1.1     1.4             0.3        1.2     1.5           0.4        1.4      1.8  > 
(h)  Consulting services              0.2        1.0      1.2            0.2       1.2      1.4           0.2        1.5      1.7
(i)  Feasibility studies               -         0.3     0.3              -        0.3      0.3           0.1        0.4      0.5
7.4      42.9    50.3             8.1       44.4    52.5           10.0       53.2    63.2



TABLE 3
IVORY COAST - UPPER VOLTA
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Training - Cost Estimates
CFAF Million               US$ (000)
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
(1) Buildings
Construction and expansion of physical
trainîng facilltiteR at?
ta) Abidjan                             18.2      22.8     41.0    74.2       93.1    167.3
(b) Bouake                              21.4      26.9     48.3    87.5    109.7    197.2
(c) Bobo-Dioulasso                      13.3     16.7      30.0    54.3       68.1    122.4
Sub-total civil works                   52.9      66.4    119.3   216.0    270.9    486.9
(2) Furniture
(a) Abidjan                              -         4.8      4.8      -       19.6      19.6
(b) Bouake                               -         5.0      5.0      -        20.4     20.4
(c) Bobo-Dioulasso                       -         4.6      4.6      -       18.8      18.8
Sub-total furniture                      -        14.4     14.4      -        58.8     58.8
(3) Training Equipment
(a) Abidjan                              -      113.8    113.8       -      464.5    464.5
(b) Bouake                               -         2.3      2.3      -         9.4      9.4
(c) Bobo-Dioulasso                       -         2.3      2.3      -         9.4      9.4
Sub-total equipment                      -       118.4    118.4      -       483.3    483.3
(4) Technical assistance                    15.1      60.8      75.9    62       248      310.0
(50 man-months)
Grand Total                             68       260      328      278      1061     1339. 
Physical contingencies (10%)             7        26        33      28       106       134
Total with physical contingencies       75       286      361      306      1167     1473
Price contingencies  (24%)              18        69       87       73       280      353
Total with all contingencies            93       355      448      379      1447     1826



TABLE 4
IVORY COAST - UPPER VOLTA
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year
and Quarter Ending                             IBRD                IDA
1977-1978
December 31, 1977                             4.3
March 31, 1978                                6.0                1.4
June 30, 1978                                 8.4                2.8
1978-1979
September 30, 1978                           10.6                3.4
December 31, 1978                            13.3                4.0
March 31, 1979                               15.8                4.2
June 30, 1980                                17.3                4.4
1979-1980
September 30, 1979                           18.8                4.6
December 31, 1979                            19.3                4.8
March 31, 1980                               21.1                5.2
June 30, 1980                                21.5
1980-1981
September 30, 1980                           21.8
December 31, 1980                            23.0



Table 5
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
Regional Railway Project
Summary Rates of Return (in %)
Higher    Higher      Lower    Combination
Normal  Invest.    Rail       Freight        of
Case    Costs    Operat-    Traf-    Sensitivity
ing        fic        Analyses
Costs     Growth
(1)   Rehabilitation                    18       17        17         15            13
(2)   Realignment                       15       13        15 1/      il            10
(3)   Combined Rehabilitation &         17       16        17         14           13
Realignment
(4)   Line Improvement Upper            13       12        12         13 2/         12
Volta
(5)   Maintenance Equipment -           53       49        53 3/      53 3/         49
Renewal Only
(6)   Incremental Maintenance           25       22        25 4/      25 4/         22
Equipment
(7)   Total Maintenance                 39       35        39 4/      39 4/         35
Equipment
(8)   Freight Cars & Locomotives        26       24        23         24           20
(9)   Tank Cars & Locomotives           30       28        26         19           15
(10)  Locomotives                       36       33        32         36 3/        30
(11)  Rolling Stock & Locomo-           28       26        26         25           21
tives (8), (9), & (10)
(12)  Whole Project                     23       21        21         20           17
1/  Not sensitive to higher rail operating cost, since no benefits from
diversion to road have been assumed.
2/  Not sensitive to lower freight traffic growth, since analysis is based on
1976 traffic volume.
3/  Not sensitive to lower freight traffic growth, because these locomotives,
which replace obsolete equipment, are needed to carry 1976 traffic.
4/ Not sensitive.



RAN
Income Accounts 1970-1976
CFAF Million
1970       1971        1972        1973        1974        1975        1976
Operating Revenue
Passengers                               1601        1792        2115        2376        2829        3471       4490
Freight                                  2322        2602        2718        3332        3610        3395       4630
Orher incl. wagons-lit, hotels            138         168         308         385         634         884       1823
Total Operating Revenue               4061       4562        5141        6093        7073        7750       10943
Operating Expenses
Staff costs                              2357        2575        2735        3094        3751        4373       5136
Fuel                                      226         298         372         386         573         674        783
Other material                            411         713         741         820        1153        1272       1902
Other costs                               492         610         640         626         748        1248       1373
Total Cash Outgoing                   3486       4196        4488        4926        6225        7567        9194
Cash Generation from Operations              575         366         653        1167         848         183        1749
Depreciation                                 696         757         810         998        1245        1081        1329
Total Operating Expenses              4182        4953        5298        5924        7470        8648      10523
Net Operating Revenue (loss)                (121)       (391)       (157)        169        (397)       (898)        420
Interest Charges                              64          64          64         198         261         311         775
Subsidies from Governments                   233         231         251         290        1189         673         809
Net Surplus (loss)                            48        (224)         30         261         531        (536)        454
Working Ratio                                 867%        92%         87Z         81%         88%          97%         84%
Operating Ratio                              103%        109%        103%         97%        104%        113%          96%
Times Interest Earned                                      -           -           0.9x        -            -         - 0.5
Debt Service                                  64          64          64         376         474         726         1157
Debt Service 8overage                          9.0         5.7        10.4         3.1          1.8         0.3        1.5
Average Net Fixed Assets in Service        13077       13610       15675       18180       20458       22133       24728
Rate of Retura                                 (0.9%)     (2.9%)      (1.0%)       0.9%        (1.9%)      (4.1%)       1.7%   '
Average Gross Fixed Assets in Service   18415          19670       22520       25930       29266       32169       35985
Depreciating Ratio                             3.8%        3.8%        3.6%        3.8%        4.3%         3.4%        3.7%
--SourCeL  RAN
July 1977



TABLE 7
RAN
Summary Balance Sheets
as of Dec. 31. 1970-1975-
(in CFAF Million)
1970        1971         1972         1973        1974         1975
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Value                         18934        20412        24630       27231        31300        33038
Less Depreciation                     5686        6443         7253        8251         9496        10577
Nét Fixed Assets in Use             13248        13969        17377       18980        21804        22461
Work in Progress                      1785        2909          439          492         447         2879
Total Fixed Assets                  15033        16878        17816       19472        22251        25340
Investments                             3            4           26         158          197          208
Other Non-Current Assets -/              3           3            3           12         832         2495
Net Current Assets
Current Assets:
Cash                                  645          564          359         353          254          383
Receivables                            710         564          708          754        2431         3920
stores                                 523         612          790         876         1132         1160
Suspense Items                           4          13           98           16          15           13
Sub-Total Current Assets              1882        1753         1955         1999        3832         5476
Less Current Liabilities
Bank Overdrafts                          -           -            -            -         482         2778
Loan Terms                              10           5          119          213         239          571
Payables                              1199        1730         1753        2089         3615         2776
Sub-Total Current Liabilities         1209        1735         1872         2302        4336         6125
Total Net Current Assets              673           18           83         (303)       (504)-       (649)
Total Assets                        15712        16903        17928       19339        22776        27394
LIABILITIES
Equity                              14575        14627        14896        15521       17950        19746
Long-Term Debt                        1137        2276         3032         3818        4826         7648
Total Liabilities                   15712        16903        17928       19339        22776        27394
Ratios
Current                                1.6         1.0          1.0          0.9         0.9          0.9
Liquid                                 1.1         0.7          0.6          0.4         0.6          0.7
Debt/Equity                           7/93       13/87        17/83        20/80       21/79        28/72
1/ Since 1974 mostly Government contributions due after more than one year.



RAN
Forecast Income Accounts 1976-1982
(in CFAF Million)
1976 4/    1977         1978        1979        1980        1981        1982
Operating Revenue
Passengers                                        4490        4794        5190        5494        5798        6174        6460
Freight                                           4630        5448        5953        6376        6922        7416        7838
Miscellaneous                                     1823        2020        2060        2100        2150        2200         2250
Rate increases                                       -        1471        3802        6720        9230       12010       15412
Total Operating Revenue                            10943       13733       17005       20690       24100       27800       31960
Operating Expenses
Staff costs                                       5136        6215        6526        6908        7435        7956        8510
Fuel                                               783         818         888         948        1022        1088        1147
Other                                             3275        3668        3897        4146        4463        4749         5030
Inflationary cost increases                          -         856        1878        3121        4651        6469        8621
Total cash outgoing                               9194       11557       13189       15123       17571       20262       23308
Cash generation from operations                   1749        2176        3816        5567        6529         7538        8652
Depreciation                                      1329        1630        1920        2210        2500         2800        3120
Total Operating Expenses                           10523       13187       15109       17333       20071        23062       26428
Net Operating Revenue                                420         546         1896        3357        4029        4738        5532
Interests:
on long-term debt                                586        1006        1269        1447        1596        1903        2012
on Bank overdraft                                189         270         250          30           -           -
Total interest charges                             775        1276        1519        1477        1596        1903        2012
Government subsidies for current                   809         922         926        1030         391         452         523
maintenance
Net Surplus                                          454         192        1303        2910        2824         3287        4043
Ratios:                                                                                           _
Working                                           84%         84%         78%         73%         73%         73%         73%
Operating                                         96%         96%         89%         84%         83%         83%         83%
Times interest earned                              0.5         0.4         1.2         2.3         2.5         2.5          2.7
Debt service coverage                              1.5         1.2         1.8         2.1         2.0          2.0         2.1
Average net fixed assets in service              24728       30925       38836       45376       50958       56043       62134
Rate of return                                     1.7%        1.8%        4.9%        7.4%        7.9%         8.5%        8.9%  v
Average gross fixed assets in service            35985       43677       53363       61968       69905       77640       86691   0
Depreciating ratio                                 3.7%        3.7%        3.6%        3.6%         3.6%        3.6%        3.6%
Source: RAN and Mission estimates
August 1977
1/Actual data



RAN
Forecast Balance Sheets
as of December 31, 1976-1982
(in CFAF Million)
ASSETS:                                 19761/      1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982
Fixed Assets
Gross Value                         38931       48422        58303      65632       74177       81102        92279
Less Depreciation                    11937      13567        15487      17697       20197        22997       26117
Net Fixed Assets in Use              26994       34855       42816      47935        53980       58105       66162
Work in Progress                      4000        5000        6000        6000        3000        4000        1000
Total Fixed Assets                   30994       39855       48816                   56980       62105       6-7162
Other Fixed Assets2/                  3150        4720        5960        7010        7360        7680        7600
Net Current Assets
Current Assets:
Cash                                   458         620         750        1578        1568        1491        1560
Receivables:
Contributions                      3128        3596         2316        2242        1964        1434        1200
Others                              1470        1850        2400        3100        3600        4100        4800
Stores                                1132        1450        1850        2270        2640        3020        3450
Sub-Total Current Assets              6188        7516        7316        9190        9772       10045       11010
Less Current Liabilities:
Bank Overdrafts                       1533        3907         370                 -         -       -           -
Payables                              3305        4100        4100        3600        3600        4300        4800
Sub-Total Current Liabilities         4838        8007        4470        3600        3600        4300        4800
Total Net Current Assets              1350       (1491)       2846        5590        6172        5745        6210
Total Assets                         35494      45066        57622       66535       70512       75530       80972
LIABILITIES:
Equity                               20924       24577       30462       36940       40862       44800       49369
Long-Term Debt                       14570       20489       27160       29595       29650       30707       31603
Total Liabilities                    35494       45066       57622       66535       70512       75530       80972
Ratios
Current                                1.3         0.9         1.6         2.6         2.7         2.3         2.3           '
Liquid                                 1.0         0.8         1.2         1.9         2.0         1.6         1.6
Debt/Equity                          41/59       46/54       47/53       44/56       42/58       41/49       39/61
Source: RAN and mission estimates
1/preliminary data
-i/mostly Governments' share of RAN's debt for infrastructure renewal, except for CFAF 208 million of investments.
August 1977



RAN
Forecast Sources and Application of Funds
(in CFAF Millions)
SOURCES                                    1977       1978     1979      1980      1981      1982
Cash generated from operations             2176       3816     5567      6529      7538      8652
Government contributions                   2108       4788     3790      1227      1134      1434
IDA(60%)                                               588       118       59        -         -
Loans:
IBRD                                       1054       2205     1470       907        -         -
IDA(40%)                                     -         392        78       39        -         -
CIDA                                       2070       2700     1910       450        -         -
Total proposed project                     3124       5297      3458     1396        -         -
Other loans                                3640       2230       200      300      3000      3100
Total loans                                6764       7527     3658      1696      3000      3100
Total Sources                             11048      16719    13133      9511    11672    13186
APPLICATIONS
Capital investment                        10606      11007      7689     5692      8253      8505
Debt service:
Interest                                   1006       1269     1447      1596      1903      2012
Amortization                                845        856      1223     1641      1943      2204
Total debt service                         1851       2125      2670     3237      3846      4216
Interest on Bank overdraft                  270        250        30       -         -         -
Increase (decrease) in working capital   371          (330)    1546       592      (350)      396
Total Applications                        13098      13052    11935      9521    11749    13117
Cash increase (decrease) in year          (2212)      3667      1198       (10)     (77)       69
Cash balance brought forward              (1075)    (3287)       380     1578      1568      1491
Cash at end of year                       (3287)       380      1578     1568      1491      1560
Source: Ran and Mission estimates
August 1977



ANNEX 1
Page 1
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
Regional Railway Project:
Bank Projects in the Transport Sector
A.   Ivory Coast
Ln. No. 542          First Highway Project:  US$5.8 million Loan of
June 21, 1968; Closing Date: December 31. 1974.
This project has been satisfactorily completed.
Ln. No. 761          Second Highway Project:  US$20.5 million Loan of
June 22, 1971; Closing Date: November 30. 1975.
This project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975. The funds
remaining under the loan are being used to finance the supplementary urban
studies for Abidjan, initiated under the Third Highway Project.
Ln, No. 837          Third Highway Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of
June 23, 1972; Closing Date: September 30. 1977.
The project includes (i) a four-year maintenance program; (ii) the realignment
and strengthening of about 110 km of existing paved highways; (iii) consulting
services to supervise these works; and (iv) a feasibility study and detailed
engineering of an Abidjan urban deelopment project. The maintenance and
betterment programs are progressing satisfactorily. Construction work for the
pavement strengthening program started in March 1975; contract amount is about
120 percent over appraisal estimates due to inflation and modification of de-
sign standards. The Government has agreed to finance all overruns. Construc-
tion of the bridge and the urban development study for Abidjan have been
satisfactorily completed.
Cr. No. 406          Fourth Hiphway Project:  US$7.5 million Credit of
June 28, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project provides for (i) construction of the Yabago-Gagnoa road (79 km);
(ii) reconstruction of the N'zi River bridge; and (iii) a feeder road study in
cotton growing areas. Construction works on the road started about one year
behind schedule due to delays in contract awarding and contractors' failure to
mobilize equipment in time; progress during the last six months has been
satisfactory. Project costs are about 70 percent above appraisal estimates



ANNEX 1
Page 2
due to inflation and adoption of higher construction standards than originally
envisaged. The Government will assume financing of all cost overruns. Con-
struction of the N'zi River bridge and the feeder road study have been satis-
factorily completed.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project includes (i) continuation of the pavement strengthening program
(about 200 km) initiated under the Third Highway Project; (ii) realignment of
a 27-km section of the Azaguie-Adzope road and construction of the Anyama-
Agboville road (45 km); (iii) equipment for traffic counting, vehicle weight
control and pavement surveys; (iv) technical assistance to establish a plann-
ing and research unit in MPWT, to train local staff and to reorganize the
Public Works Laboratory; and (v) feasibility studies and detailed engineering
for the Mankono-Tenigbone road (66 km) and for about 300 km of other secondary
roads to be identified and a study of feeder roads requirements. Construction
of the Anyama-Agboville road and the pavement strengthening program started at
the beginning of 1976. Consultants have started the engineering studies
provided for under the project. The terms of reference for the planning and
research unit within MTPT are being finalized in consultation with the Bank.
UNDP was originally to finance the updating of the transport survey but cannot
do so due to lack of funds. The Government has agreed to amend the Loan
Agreement to include financing of the survey in this loan.
B.   Upper Volta
Credit 316:         Road Project.  US$4.15 Million Credit of June 26, 1972
(As amended on March 25, 1974); Effective Date: December
31, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project originally comprised: (a) the reconstruction of the Solenzo-
Koudougou (70 km) and Hounde-Bereba (27 km) roads, and (b) feasibility
studies for about 400 km of primary roads, and engineering of those sec-
tions found to have the highest priority. Construction of the Solenzo-
Koudougou road began in March 1974 and is now completed. Construction of
the Hounde-Bereba road was deleted from the project as justification for
the road disappeared when construction of a ginnery at Hounde was deemed
unnecessary. Resulting funds were transferred to a drainage works construc-
tion component. Of the four roads proposed under part (b), only two (Bobo-
Dioulasso to Hounde and Bobo-Dioulasso to Banfora, a total of 190 km) were
selected for feasibility studies on the basis of satisfactory rates of re-
turn. Due to currency realignment and cost overruns on the road construc-
tion component, the dollar cost of the project increased. To enable project
completion, the Association approved, on March 25, 1974, an increase in
credit amount from US$2.8 million to US$4.15 million.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Credit 579:          Rural Roads Project.  US$7.5 Million-Credit of August
13, 1975; Effective Date: February 11, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
The project, to be carried out over four years, provides for (a) improve-
ment and subsequent maintenance of about 1,200 km of rural roads and main-
tenance of about 2,100 km of existing roads; (b) strengthening of the
Service d'Entretien des Routes Secondaires (SERS) through technical assis-
tance to the Ministry of Public Works; and (c) implementation of the above
road program and procurement of highway equipment. Bids for equipment for
feeder road improvement and maintenance works have been received, all equip-
ment is expected to be delivered on schedule and recruitment of local per-
sonnel is advancing effectively.
Credit 653:          Third Highway Prolect.  US$20 Million Credit of July
15, 1976; Effective Date: December 15, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
The project consists of (a) reconstruction to paved standard of the 182 km
Banfora-Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde road (the most important transportation link
in the high potential agricultural region of the Southwest); (b) procurement
of equipment for vehicle weight control, including provision of fixed facili-
ties for installation and traffic counting equipment; (c) consulting services
for a study of road maintenance and pre-investment studies for about 150 km
of roads; (d) technical assistance for strengthening the Directorate of Trans-
port (DOT) and assisting the Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique
(OPEV) in the promotion of domestic civil works industry. As a result of the
feasibility and engineering studies completed under the Road Project (Cr. 316)
construction on part (a) is about to begin.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
REGIONAL FIRST RAILWAY PROJECT
TECENICAL TRAINING
Background
1.        RAN operates a 1,159 km single track lune running from the Port
of Abidjan in the Ivory Coast to Ouagadougou in Upper Volta, with principal
operational centers in Abidjan (main station for freight and passengers),
Bouake and Bobo-Dioulasso (freight car workshops). These three centers also
serve as headquarters for RAN's operating districts and branches into which
the railway line is divided. The extent of the area covered by the line,
and the fact that it runs through two countries have a bearing on the recruit-
ment and training of personnel.
2.        Training activities have been carried out by RAN since 1973, but
more systematic training has been conducted only since the Training Division
(TD) (Service de la Formation Professionnelle) was established in 1974.
A.   Current Trainins Activities
3.        Based on recommendations contained in a 1973 study made by SOFRERAIL,
RAN recruited a training adviser from OFERMAT in early 1974 to assist in pre-
paring and carrying out a comprehensive training program. The objectives of
this program are the retraining and upgrading of about 2,000 current employees
and the training of some 1,000 new recruits during the next five years (1978-
82).  Because of a scarcity of training facilities , training equipment and
experienced instructors and poor worklng relations betveen TD and some of the
operating departments, training has produced only modest results so far in
relation to the relatively large number of available instructors. Between
1974, when TD was organized, and the end of 1976, some 700 RAN personnel
were trained, mainly through short classroom courses. Table 1 of this annex
gives a breakdown of training activities, most of which reportedly took place
in 1976.
4.        TD has concentrated on the training of skilled labor and supervisors
from Motive Power & Rolling Stock (MP&RS) and Tracks & Works (T&W) Departments
to meet the most urgent needs of the railway. Courses to upgrade certain
categories of personnel and special programs to train some African instructors
have also been carried out. Many of the training programs have been too
theoretical due in part to lack of training equipment. Although a few
specific courses have been conducted for middle-level supervisors, their
training has consisted mainly of programs abroad provided either by the Douala
Training Center or SNCF-France. The results of these programs have not always
been very satisfactory.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Presently, fifteen classrooms are available for training, as
follows:
(a)  Abidjan Main Center                                       Capacity
Operations (OP)                   :  2 classrooms each
for 20 trainees       -  40
Motive Pover & (MP&RS)            : 4 classrooms each
Rolling Stock                        for 20 trainees       -  80
3 classrooms each    -  60
for 20 trainees
1 design-room for
20 trainees          -  20
Tracks & Works (T&W)                 2 classrooms each
for 15 trainees       -  30
Signalling & Telecom. (S&T)       :  1 classroom
for 20 trainees       -  20
250
(b)  Bouake Secondary Center
Training facilities, which were extremely limited, have been
used by RAN for other purposes.
(c) Bobo-Dioulasso Secondary Center
OP, MP&RS, S&T                    :  1 classroom, for
15 trainees          -  15
: 1 technology room
for 12 trainees       -  12
27
GRAND TOTAL             277
6.        The percentage of training equipment and materials currently
available is estimated as follows: OP 100%, MP&RS 35%, T&W 90%, S&T 20%.
Most of this equipment is out-dated and inadequate. On the other hand, except
for the T&W and S&T Departments, where several courses have not yet been
prepared, manuals for the training of OP and especially MP&RS personnel are
mostly available.
7.        Excluding the Chief of TD, the teaching staff currently
numbers 32, as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(a) Full-time Instructors
(i) Expatriates
3 Chief Instructors, OP, MP&RS, T&W (French technical
assistants) 1/
10 "Contingent Personnel" 2/
13
(ii) Africans
4 Instructors - OP
5 Instructors - MP&RS
9
(b) Part-Time Instructors
5  Instructors -  Financial Department
3  Instructors -  Commercial Department
-  Instructors -  Data Processing 3/
-  Instructors -  Police 4/
2  Instructors -  Stores & Supply
-  Instructors -  Personnel, Administrative
and General Divisions 5/
8.        The training capability of the instructors varies; some have either
limited technical knowledge or pedagogical experience or both. Efforts to
improve and strengthen middle-level staff by requiring technical assistants
attached to RAN to train counterparts or to conduct training courses and
seminars (as part of their OFERMAT terms-of-reference) have been limited
1/   The T&W Chief Instructor was recently recruited (OFERMAT) and has
had no previous experience in training. The OP Chief Instructor may
be transferred to other duties shortly.
2/   French nationals serving for periods of up to two years to substitute
for military service.
3/   Training is expected to be carried out abroad.
4/   Personnel to be trained at the National School of Police.
5/   Personnel to be trained at the Ivorian Center for Management of
Enterprises.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
because the training function has been subordinate to the expatriates' other
duties or because they lacked training experience. Only by setting up or-
ganized, planned and continuous courses and seminars can the objectives be
met. This requires expertise on the part of technical assistance staff when
identifying training needs and preparing specially-tailored programs.
9.        A technical assistant has headed the TD since 1974.  Although he
seems to be a dedicated person, he has been unable to establish effective
working relations with RAN's department heads. An African counterpart or
deputy to the Chief of the TD has not yet been recruited.
10.       Although RAN has taken positive steps to establish TD, the opera-
tional effectiveness of this relatively new division has been modest because
of: (a) shortage of both human and physical training resources; (b) lack of
a sound training methodology; (c) failure to allow TD to be responsible for
the training of middle-level staff; and (d) lack of an evaluation system.
The Bank has discussed these problems with RAN's management and has made
specific recommendations in writing on how to remedy this situation. The
recommendations have been agreed to in principle by RAN.
B.   Future Training Activities
11.       The study of RAN's training needs carried out by SOFRERAIL indicated,
inter alia, that a long-term training plan would be required along the follow-
ing lines:
(a) training of newly recruited personnel to enable them
to be assigned to positions requiring rapid adaptation;
(b) training of existing personnel to qualify them for
promotion;
(c) specific courses for supervisor candidates to be trained
in a variety of activities which they will eventually be
asked to supervise;
(d) refresher courses for existing personnel in order to
improve their knowledge and skills; and
(e) management seminars for medium- and high-level personnel.
The program, divided into four integrated phases, envisioned (i) the setting
up of a TD with overall responsibilities for training, retraining and up-
grading RAN personnel; (ii) the collection and/or preparation of courses,
curricula and teaching materials; (iii) a crash program to retrain some 550
priority personnel occupying low/medium supervisory grades; and (iv) the
upgrading of medium/high level management.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
12.       To implement this program SOFRERAIL proposed the construction
of an elaborate main training center in Abidjan (Abobo) and two secondary
centers at Bouake and Bobo-Dioulasso. It also included (i) a teaching staff
consisting of a director and some 20 instructors, (ii) the purchase of con-
siderable training equipment and materials, and (iii) the recruitment of nine
expatriates experienced in training railway personnel.
13.       Based on these recommendations, RAN formulated a program for retrain-
ing, upgrading and training most of its staff. However, following a Bank
Group recommendation, RAN's management agreed, that although the solution of
long-term training needs should be considered in due course, RAN should
concentrate in the next few years on a program which would meet the most
urgent training priorities. This could be accomplished by retraining and
training the key personnel of each operating department who have specific
supervisory responsibilities and who, in turn, would be able to train their
subordinates.
14.       The plan which will eventually enable the training and retraining
of about 500 skilled workers and low-level supervisors each year involves the
f ollowing: (a) only minor improvements and expansion of existing physical
training facilities in Abidjan; (b) the construction of limited facilities at
Bouake and Bobo Dioulasso; (c) the purchase of training equipment and mate-
rials; (d) the strengthening of the TD; and (e) continuation and expansion of
technical assistance. Details are as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 6
CFAF '000       US$
(a) Abidjan - Main Center
(i)  One Dormitory and related    )
facilities (50 trainees)      )    41,000         167,347
(ii)  One Storeroom                 )
(iii)  One Technology Room           )
(iv)  Furniture/Equipment                 4,770          19,470
(v)  Training Equipment and            113,865         464,755
Materials
Sub-total                    159,635         651,572
(b) Bouake - Secondary Center
(i)  Four Dormitories              )
(each 10 trainees)            )
(ii)  Three Classrooms              )
(each 15 trainees)            )
(iii)  One Technology Room           )    48,300         197,143
(iv)  One Signalization Room        )
(v)  One Storeroom                 )
(vi)  Two Offices                   )
(vii)  Furniture/Equipment                  4,950         20,204
(viii)  Training Equipment and
Materials                            2,280          9,306
Sub-Total                     55,530         226,653
(c) Bobo-Dioulasso - Secondary Center
(i)  Two Dormitories               )
(each 20 trainees)            )
(ii)  Two classrooms                )    30,000         122,449
(each 15 trainees)            )
(iii)  One Signalization Room        )
(iv)  One Storeroom                 )



ANNEX 2
Page 7
CFAF'000       US$
(v)  Furniture/Equipment                4,650            18,980
(vi) Training Equipment and
Materials                           2,280            9.306
Sub-Total                    36,930          150,735
TOTAL                       252 095        1.028.960
15.       The implementation of the expanded program will require: (a) an ex-
perienced and active head of the TD (the present head is reportedly expected
to retire shortly); (b) one expatriate chief instructor for the S&T Depart-
ment; and (c) one short-term expatriate specialist to provide pedagogical
training for new and existing African instructors. Funds have been included
in the project to finance this staff. In addition, RAN would provide six
African technicians to be trained as instructors as soon as possible. There
are presently three French technical assistants acting as chief instructors,
on a full-time basis, for OP, MP&RS and T&W. This number should not be
reduced until Africans trained under the project can take over. Alterna-
tively, if any of them should be considered unsuitable or should be trans-
ferred elsewhere, experienced replacements should be provided by FAC. The
breakdown of new instructors required is as follows:
MP&RS   -   Two African instructors to train locomotive drivers
and electrical and mechanical personnel, respectively.
OP      -   One expatriate chief instructor, if the present one
is transferred elsewhere, and four African instructors
to conduct courses in tariffs, bookkeeping, security,
movement, litigation, etc.,
S&T     -   One expatriate chief instructor.
T&W     -   One expatriate chief instructor, if it is agreed
that the present one should be replaced.
16.       Regardless of their capability, the duration of the African
instructors' assignments should not last more than five years.  At the end
of their assignments they should return to their respective units for prac-
tical experience and learn any new technology. By the time they are trans-
ferred back to the departments, replacements with equal training capability
should be in position. Instructors would be selected from among experienced
personnel fully versed in their respective fields, but, in addition, they
should demonstrate patience, the ability to communicate, and the desire to
teach for a few years.  They should not be permanently assigned to TD, but
rotated on a regular basis. Their main tasks, especially those expected to
train MP&RS and T&W personnel, will be to arrange classroom programs, prepare
specific courses, conduct classroom and workshop training and then, in close
collaboration with the workshop foremen and superintendents, supervise pro-
duction training.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
17.       Similary, the assignments of expatriate instructors should not
be more than four to five years. Their recruitment should be based not only
on their knowledge of railway operations but also on their experience in
training personnel in developed as well as developing countries. RAN agreed
that all TD's expatriate staff will select, as early as possible, suitable
African instructors to be trained to take over their responsibilities.
180       RAN relies also on 10 to 12 "econtingent" personnel to assist with
training. They are young Frenchmen who are serving overseas in lieu of
military service. The concept is basically good, but, apart from a few
who are specialized in some technical field directly or indirectly connected
with railway work and some who have had some years of experience with SNCF,
the remaining ones are generalists. There seems to be some disagreement
among RAN officials as to their usefulness.  Some believe that even though
they are not specialized in any specific discipline, they are adequate to
conduct general pre-training courses for new recruits whose scholastic back-
ground is low. Others believe that only those specialized in fields of
immediate use to RAN should be accepted.
19.       Since there appears to be some need for general pre-training,
RAN could retain a few "contingent" personnel for this purpose, but should
make sure that the others have real practical experience with either SNCF or
other technical agencies/institutions.
20.       There is a need to recruit, as soon as possible, an African deputy
to the director of TD. This deputy would initially fill a number of positions
of increasing responsibility leading to the position of director of TD. An
engineer with three to five years responsible operational experience with RAN
should be selected. In addition to good technical knowledge of railway
activities, he should demonstrate a keen interest in manpower development,
ability to organize and communicate, and patience. Alternatively, a good
administrator (generalist) with training potential should be assigned or
recruited, who, in time, could gain sufficient experience in the various
railways activities. Once the approved candidate has carried out the respon-
sibilities stated earlier, he would be sent to various institutes and rail-
ways in Europe and Canada to attend training courses. In addition, he should
also carry out some practical work in the field of training before completing
his program. On his return, assuming satisfactory completion of his own
training program, he should be nominated director of the TD. To ensure
a smooth transition from one administration to the other, the expatriate
director of TD in office at that time should be requested to remain for a
reasonable period as an adviser to the new director.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
21.       The funds allocated for training under the project will enable
the TD to carry out a two-year priority program including: (a) orientation
and training of new recruits; (b) training of existing skilled laborers and
supervisors to bring their performance up to standard; and (c) upgrading of
personnel to provide selected staff with career development opportunities.
Moreover, in addition to theoretical courses the TD would carry out, in
collaboration with the operating departments, practical training in the
centers using the equipment to be financed under the loan. This would be
followed by adequate periods of on-the-job training at the main workshop
through actual repair and maintenance work under the direct supervision of the
TD instructors. Training of middle and high-level managerial staff will be
carried out by the consultant in charge of the improvement of the railway's
management and operations (para. 4.18).
22.       On the basis of the comprehensive training plan, the following
programs were agreed with RAN's Department Heads:
(a) a short-term interim program, capable of being carried
out with the training resources presently available,
during 1977;
(b) a two-year priority program (1978-1979) to start as soon
as Bank funds can be utilized; and
(c)  a three-year program (1980-1982) which would follow
and consolidate action taken during the priority program.
Information on this program is not yet available.
Details of programs (a) and (b) above are given in Table 2 and 3 of
this annex.
C.   Financing of Training
23.       The cost of strengthening TD and implementing an expanded training
program is estimated at US$1.4 million plus US$0.4 million for contingencies.
The project will, as indicated in para. 4.05 of the cost estimate, provide
for:



ANNEX 2
Page 10
CFAF million   US$'000
(a) construction and expansion of
physical training facilities
in Abidjan, Bouake and Bobo-
Dioulasso (Table 4);                         119.3        486.9
(b) furniture and equipment for the
three centers;                                14.4         58.8
(c) didactic materials and training
equipment for the three centers
(Table 5);                                   118.4        483.3
(d) technical assistance (one senior
expatriate training expert for
24 months; one chief instructor
(S&T) for 24 months; one expatriate
instructor for 2 months).                     75.9        310.0
328.0     1,339.0 1/
_/   This amount includes both local and foreign costs vithout
contingencies.



.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~Table 1
o               r t                   tat°tit                          ^ou        e                < t.4             O 
c   r                                                                                                                                     'al@@ | j       
N  r      l               c~Io       tO                             '4.                                                 C       aXu     
r- t_   _                                                                                                                            .r
c     r                              t4            Ot                      *t t                         t                t       r   -4- 
4     M      4            4                    N       ti I  Itt I               I                                                      t    ll |  a
z -                      r                                                                                  -                                  -,           t _t_
;0  W  r°   ç   | ^°t S   |  @ R  S      '  '.~~~~~~~~ °o  '            l+                                        t- t
44  _    Kt                                        t    t  tr,                                              t               ta        O          t        
r-                      t                tttt,t   ,,                  ,               ,.                   t                t .
e~~~~~~~                          tc _       o
e~~~~~~ ct---. r°.t--                                                                                                     4               
c ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     t        Ottttt r-t-tll'                    lll'  
w ~ ~         ~~~                  O r.          O     t..                       t--t.                                       t. Xs            'lZ r 
e~~ ~~~~ _0 _--t                                                             tt. 
ô z 2 r ' e "tOtO O                                                       tt-ta.   0                                     4.
_~~~~ _                              _.t.t.t....t   C.          _t   ___.C   t_                                   C      t____
t            . v4 t          C            C   4,w a   a-va_
e                       |         t-'cl»     r-           C o       00  w1          
iÉ~ ~ ~~~~O Ol cEOt                                                                    O c                     a.       c      1i
9! W   01  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ à  G  8~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =  X  X .Y   Kn    O   é    c _   §      S        K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oC. .t     O t
t-t                  Ct.         K 4   _    ,X. O,                   ;<        >0 2             =       t      a.       C;   cz«



ANNEX 2
Tabl 
EST24ATED INTERIIM PROGRAM
- 1977 )
CATEOORY      U1                    il 13                 77  10 11
OPEURT TON
Station Attendants    _74    2                                        _
Station Masters                                          -    26 _
IN0TIVE POWER &
ROLLING STOCK
Workshops
Skilled Workers                _       _       9h              _      _
Assistant Foremen      _      _                               15      -
Locomotives
Loco Drivers           _        _      _.               0 o    _
TRACKS & WORKS
Trackmen              2      _                          12 
Foremen                       6
Linemen                _      6    _
Bobo -DioulasSO
Trackmien             51  l
99     6    _         _         252
105                             a2i
398



ANNEX 2
Table 3
Pag=e1
ESTIMATED 2-YEAR PRIORITY PROGRAM
(1978-1979)
DEPARTMENT                  RETRAINING                         TRAINING 
CATEGORY/GRADE        1/4    5/7     7Il    1 1713    1/4 1 5/7       O0    I1/-L3
OPERATION (EX)
Station Attendants   240       _       _        _       64      _      _        _
Switchmen               _      -                       52 -  -  2
Station Masters              160       _                       23 
Assistant Station  ,
Mast'ers                             4                               IO<__        
S.T.    240   O160      45               116     23      10
MOTIVE POWER &
ROLLING  STOCK (MT)
A. Loco Drivers                                            I                j
Loco Drivers            _      -                        60 -    _       _ 
Senior Loco Drivers           51       -        -        -               
Assistant Chief v              -                -
Loco Drivers           _      -     15         6                 t i
Chief Loco Drivers      _  I                    6
B. Workshops               $        I
Electrical
Skilled Workers         _  i   _       _              157       _
Assistant Foremen       -         _             -        -     15 f
Senior Foremen      3                          19-              -       -       -
Thermal                           .
,Assistant Foremen     5-  '           -I       _                 b _  _
Foremen                          - -i  15        - _                             _
Senior Foremen         9- -'   -  I                g            - _ '   _
Mechanical                                    
iAssistant Foremen        -I   -         -I       -        - i   _
tForemen                 5- - 52                  -        -      -      8    j
Senior Foremen                                  9
S.T.            106     82        43     217              8   ; 
TRACKS & WORKS                                                 1.
Trackmen                       6                --              8       -               t
Assistant Chief of:
Districts              _      _       8        -        -                              !
Eouipment Operators;
Operators/Drivers       -      5       -        -        -      -       -
S.T.       -      il      8         -       -      8       -



ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 2
DEPARTMENT                     RETRAINING                              TRAININïG    11113
C,TERY/GRADDE          17/4    5/7    7/10    11/13         1 7/4X  5/7 7/10    11/13
TELECOMMUNICATION
& SIGNALIZATION
Foremen                  _      7        _         _          _      4         -
Assistant Inspectors   -        _        _     -                     - _       5
Inspectors               _      -                  5          _      - _
S.T    _      7        _         5          _      4         5
ADMINISTRATION
Finance Division
Employees                _      -        _ -                  _    10          _         
Senior Employees         _      _        -         _          _      -        il       -_
Chiefs of Group                                                                         7 _  _  _  i
S.T.   -      -i                                                      7
Administration
Division
Being Reorganized        _      _        _         _          _         _      _
Commercial
Division
Commercial Staff                                                               2  _ j  _  _  _ 25  t
St To   _         _ -      _   i_                                2        5
I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . _    t  X    .--....!
240    284    135         48        333    60   t   36         12
x               . _   S  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _                 T_       |_            . _i_ _
TOTALS        707                 +                441
G.T. 1,1>48



ANNEX 2
Table 4
Physical Training Facilities
to be Constructed
Cost in CFAF ('000)
Remarks                      Length   Width   Surface   per m 2         Total
(m)-    (m)       (m2)
ABIDJAN:
Dormitory (50 beds)            62        6       372        75         28,000
Sanitary facilities
(80 persons)                 7.5     8         60        85          5,000
Tool shed                       5        4        20        75          1,500
Technology room
(20 trainees)               8.7    10          87        75          6,500
539                  41,000
BOUAKE
3 classrooms (each
20 traïnees)                 7        7       147
2 offices (instructors)         7        5         70
Technology room
(12 trainees)                7       7         49
Signalling room
(20 trainees)                7       7         49
Tool shed                       7        3         21
4 dormitories (each
10 trainees)                 7      12        336
672       72         48,300
BOBO-DIOULASSO
2 classrooms (each 20
trainees)                    7        7        98
Technology room
(12 trainees)                7       7         49
Tool shed                       7        3         21
2 dormitories (each
20 trainees)                 7      22        308
476       63         30,000
TOTAL                                           1687 m2               119,300



ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 1
ESTIMATED COST OF TRAINING EQUIPMENT
Abidjan Main Center                                         CFAF ('000)
1 Bus for Trainees                                       3,000
3 Epidiascopes                                             660
3 Slide Projectors                                         180
2 Oscilloscopes                                          2,500
2 Power Packs                                              100
7 Metrix Electro Pliers                                    210
5 Megohmeters                                              350
7 Metrix Controllers                                       250
9 Metrix Table Mîcroammeters                               900
8 Metrix Ammeters                                        1,120
8 Voltmeters                                               320
8 Universal Sets of Electric Meters with Case              800
5 Wattmeters                                             1,000
5 Wheatstone Bridges                                       650
Miscellaneous Parts (cords, plugs, etc.)                 2,500
1 Electronic Reproducer                                    465
1 Duplicator                                               160
1 Offset Machine with Photocopier                        2,700
1 SADIN 220 Photocopier                                    320
4 ISOP 230 DP 1000 Vernier Lathes                       20,000
4 Gambin Milling Machines with Tools                    44,000
1 Drill, 13 Adam                                           300
1 Drill, 22 Adam                                           600



ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 2
Abidjan Main Center (continued)                            CFAF ('000)
3 Shaping Machines, 450 Vernier                          2,600
1 Grinder                                                   80
1 Universal Sharpener                                    2,200
1 Machine for hardness tests                             4,000
5 Stationary Welding Sets, 220 A                         1,500
4 Revolving Welding Machines, 220 A                      3,200
5 Field Welding Sets                                       400
Pneumatic and Vacuum Equipment (braking), for model
B-BB 1800 Locomotive                                3,800
Miscellaneous Tools                                     13,000
Sub-total          113,865
Bouake Secondary Center
1 Signalling Model                                       1,OOO
Hand Tools for T&W                                       1,000
1 Epidiascope                                              220
1 Slide Projector                                           60
Sub-total            2,280
Bobo-Dioulasso Secondary Center
1 Signalling Model                                       1,000
Hand Tools for T&W                                       1,000
1 Epidiascope                                              220
1 Slide Projector                                           60
Sub-total            2,280
TOTAL              118,425



ANNEX 3
Page 1
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Railway Property
A.   Track (See Chart 2)
1.        The construction of the RAN railway can be divided into two
distinct periods. During the first one, 1904-1927, the line was built
fromn Abidjan to Tafire (487 km).  It had low standard characteristics:
-    minimum curve radius:  170 m;
-    maximum gradient:  27.5 mm/m;
-    25-26 kg rails:  6 to 8 m long;
-    axle load limit:  10 tons; and
-    maximum speed:  40-60 kph for freight trains, and
50-80 kph for passenger trains.
During the second period, 1927-1954, the Tafire-Ouagadougou section was built
with improved characteristics:
-    minimum curve radius:  500 m;
-    maximum gradient:  10 mm/m;
-    30 kg rails:  10 to 12 m long;
-    axle load limit:  15 tons; and
-    maximum speed:  80 kph.
2.        To correct the severe characteristics of the profile of the first
section, some realignment works with the latter standards were executed
before 1969 (Abidjan-Agboville: 80 km in 25 years). Since 1969, the realign-
ment projects have been undertaken by the present management at a rate which
is expected to be approximately 50 km per year. These projects are:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
1970-1972 Agboville-Dimbokro (105 km) with FED
financing (CFAF 2,830 million); and
1974-1977 Dimbokro-Bouake (130 km) with a FED-EIB
Loan (CFAF 6,280 million).
3.        When this latter project is completed, nearly the whole system
will have the uniform new standards (mainly 500-m minimum curve radius
and 10 mm/m maximum gradient) except for the Bouake-Tafire stretch which
lies between the previously realigned section Abidjan-Bouake and the
Tafire-Ouagadougou section. However, between Abidjan and Le Banco (14 km
from Treichville, the main Abidjan station for freight and passengers) there
are still very sharp curves (140 to 175 m radius) and steep slopes (17.5 mm/m).
This requires double-headed trains for loads above 500-700 tons (depending
on the type of locomotive). In addition, there are numerous curves between
Le Banco and Agboville with radii shorter than 500 m (mostly 300-m radius
curves).
4.        All lines are meter-gauge and single-track, except for a section of
about 16 km between Chechi and Anoumaba which is double-track (see Chart 2).
5.      3 The whole line is now ballasted with hard stone with an average
of 0.8 m of ballast per meter of track, except on 34 km near Banfora in Upper
Volta where balllsting is presently underway to complete the volume of
ballast to 0.8 m and on about 100 km ngrthwards from Bobo-Dioulasso in
Upper Volta where there is 0.4 to 0.7 m /m of sandstone standing.
6.        The infrastructure of the track is generally stable.  There were
some problems of track stability between Azaguie (PK 42) and Yapo (PK 63)
which appear to have been solved. The present major concern about track
subgrade stability lies in the numerous eroded fills which need reinforce-
ment in Upper-Volta, mainly between Banfora (PK 699) and Koudougou (PK 1052).
7.        The track material is in rather good condition except on the
following sections:
(i) Azaguie-Yapo in the Ivory Coast, where 22 km of rails and
sleepers are to be renewed because of heavy corrugation which
results in track instability causing frequent repairs and
train speed limitations. This is not to be included in the
proposed project because it is RAN's intention to rebuild the
line on another alignment with a double-track formation, a
project for which the Bank estimates that a more satisfactory
solution still needs to be worked out (para. 4.01).
(ii)  Bouake-(PK 315) - PK 476 near Tafire (PK 488) where 25 and 26 kg
rails more than 50-year old have to be replaced due to corrugation,
lateral wear and laminated railhead in the curves. There is no
more 25 or 26-kg spare rails available for track repair;



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(iii) PK 589-593, section located between Ferkessedougou and Ouango-
lodougou, in the Ivory Coast, where the 30-kg rails had to be
replaced a few years ago, following a derailment, by spare rails
from the store and the quality of the metal appears to be
defective. The track lining and surfacing have to be corrected
frequently due to corrugation wear and the track condition
will never be satisfactory until the rails are replaced;
(iv) PK 854-PK 905, section located between Bobo-Dioulasso (PK 795)
and Koudougou (PK 1052) in Upper Volta, where second-hand 33-kg
rails were laid down in 1949-1950. These rails, manufactured
in 1917 in the United States, are still in fairly good shape
and can be kept in service for at least another 5 to 6 years
under the traffic conditions prevailing in Upper Volta;
(v) PK 923-Ouagadougou (PK 1145) where 330,000 pre-stressed concrete
sleepers were installed at the construction. These concrete
sleepers are fragile and present frequent cracks at the fastening
holes. These sleepers will gradually be replaced during an
11-year program in order to avoid the sudden need for a huge,
crash renewal program. This is a serious safety matter.
8.        The specifications for the track material laid down during construc-
tion provided for rails of unit weight which was successively of 25, 26 and 30
kg per meter. Presently, RAN's specifications for new track laying provide for:
(i) 36-kg per meter rail;
(ii) concrete sleepers with a density of 1,357 sleepers per km or
steel sleepers with a density of 1,500 sleepers per km; and
(iii)  1.0 to 1.2 m3 of stone ballast per meter.
These new specifications are reasonable for welded track with an axle load of
about 15 tons (locomotives) and traffic conditions prevailing in the Ivory
Coast during the next decade.
Note:     Ran is now considering the possibility of adopting wooden sleepers
for the future track relaying in the Ivory Coast. (In Upper Volta, RAN is
reluctant to do so because of the existence of numerous termites in this area).
Wooden sleepers would be either procured locally or imported from neighboring
countries if not available in the Ivory Coast.
9.        65% of the track is continuously welded and the welding program is
going on at a rate which is expected to be about 40 km per year. It should
be noted that the welding of old rails, while it improves momentarily the
track condition by removing the bad joints, can cause an epidemic of rail
breakages as has been experienced on a 30-km section in Upper Volta between
the border and Banfora. It is most likely to occur on sections like Bouake-
Tafire where, on some stretches, rails have been welded to reduce the main-
tenance and repair burden.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
10.       A program is being considered to increase the capacity of the
bridges in Upper Volta with FED financing (CFAF 500 million or US$2.0 mil-
lion). This program will give all the bridges of the system the same
standards (test load: 20-ton axle). Such reinforcement has already been
completed on the bridges in the Ivory Coast.
B.   Signalling and Telecommunications
11.       RAN ensures safety of operations by the classical telephone block
system. This causes delays due to the exchange of telephone messages between
the stations and the train dispatcher, messages which have to be delivered
against receipt to the train or railcar driver. As long as traffic is at a
low level this system is safe and works properly. On the busiest sections of
the line, however, additional delays are encountered because of the frequent
meetings of trains. The open-wire telephone lines, with their well-known
limitations and shortcomings despite the utilization of a frequency carrier
system, supplemented by point-by-point radio links between Ouagadougou,
Bobo-Dioulasso and Abidjan, is presently RAN's basic communication system.
RAN is considering a new radio link which will enable the dispatcher to talk
directly to the drivers and has called for bids for such equipment to be
financed out of its own budget.
12.       The elementary signalling system is appropriate to present traffic
level.
C.   Motive Power and Rolling Stock
13.       The main-line locomotive fleet is fully dieselized and totals 53
units. The overall situation of the motive power is not satisfactory. The
two old classes of locomotives, types CC 1000 and CC 1500 (21 and 15 years old
respectively), still provide good service but at large expenditures of man-
power due to the lack of available spare parts which are no longer manufac-
tured. The CC 2400 class (8 to Il years old) is ill-designed, highly un-
reliable and costly to maintain. The newer BB-B 1800 class, after an initial
period of trouble, appears to have almost overcome the prototype stage,
following numerous modifications particularly of the diesel engine.
14.       The fleet of diesel motor-units for railcars consists of 25 units,
including eight new ZE 200 class units out of an order of 13 units presently
being delivered.  Eight units of classes ZE 130-ZE 140 are more than 14 years
old and the six units of the ZE 150 class are more than 10 years old. These
14 units of limited traction capacity (450-550 HP) will be written off grad-
ually between 1977 and 1982 and replaced by ZE 200 motor-units (925 HP). RAN
recently ordered an additional series of six such units (CFAF 1,500 million or
US$6.1 million) to be delivered in 1977-1978.
15.       Shunters.  RAN uses 29 shunters, among which 18 are low-power engines
13 to 21 years old. These latter are expected to be written off by 1981-
1982. The Il others, 400-HP engines, were put into service in the years
1970-1974. RAN's investment plan provides for the purchase of three 750-HP



ANNEX 3
Page 5
and 20 450-HP shunters to replace the obsolete units. Old main-line locomo-
tives will provide shunting service and service train hauling after withdrawal
from mainline, long distance service. RAN intends to postpone this investment
beyond 1980, if possible.
16.       The fleet of passenger coaches is composed of 127 vehicles of which
109 are 2nd class coaches. Four first class and five second class coaches were
recently scrapped (October 1976). It is expected that Il additional second
class passenger coaches will be withdrawn from long distance service during
the period 1979-1985.
17.       The total number of freight cars in RAN's fleet was 1,216 at
the end of September 1976. The breakdown per category with the forecasts
of writing off are given below:
(i)  Cattle traffic:  119 out of a total of 135 cars are more than
34 years old and will be gradually written off during the period
1977-1979;
(ii)  Mixed traffic (cattle and general cargo):  70 cars are new
(1973);
(iii) Box cars for general cargo: 456 box cars are presently in
service. Among them, 143 cars are more than 26 years old,
and it is expected that they will be gradually written off
during the period 1979-1982;
(iv)  Gondolas:  209 existing gondolas, of which 82 are more than
30 years old and will be withdrawn from commercial service
before 1980-1981;
(v) Flat cars: 19 cars of which 49% have 30 years of service;
(vi)  Leased cars:  27 cars are leased to commercial firms (5 box
cars, 2 flat cars and 20 tank-cars). Two flat cars are
over-aged;
(vii)  Hopper cars and service freight cars:  The hopper car and
service car fleets are composed of 128 vehicles (61 ballast
hopper cars and 16 fuel tank cars are used for rather regular
traffic). Seventeen service cars are overaged and will be
replaced by commercial freight cars withdrawn from active
commercial service if and when needed.
18.       There are 13 service coaches in the fleet.  The utilization of these
vehicles is rather low and no writing-off is expected within the next few
years.  In addition there are 114 tank-cars owned by the petroleum companies
and, except for 17 vehicles which are 22-24 years old, these tank-cars are
relatively recent.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
19.       The composition of RAN's fleet is shown in the table attached
to this Annex together with the units on order.  Delivery of five additional
BB-B 1800 mainline locomotives (EIB financing) was due at the end of 1976 or
early in 1977. Out of a total of 15 motor-units for diesel railcars of the
new class ZE 200, eight have been delivered and seven will be delivered in
1977. Twenty-eight passenger coaches, two dining cars and two baggage vans
procured under an ADB loan will be delivered from end 1976 till early 1978.
Thirty stainless steel passenger coaches and five dining cars for express
railcars (RGL) are being delivered. No freight cars are on order.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 1
IVORY COAST - UPPER VOLTA
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
RAN Motive Power and Rolling Stock
1. Motive Power
1.1  Locomotives                  Existing (Delivery)           On order (Expected delivery)
CC 1000                         18       (1956)
CC 1500                          8       (1962)
CC 2400                          5       (1966-1968)
BB 1800   1/                    22       (1971-1977)
Total             53
1.2 Rail Cars (motor units)
ZE 130- ZE 140                   8       (1958-1963)
ZE 150                           6       (1964-1966)
ZE 160                           3       (1971)
ZE 200                           8       (1975-1976)
ZE 200 (still to be
delivered)                                                 il       (1977-1979)
Total             25
1.3 Shunters
AA 40-50                        18       (1956-1963)
(Poyaud-Diesel
Hydraulic - 150 HP)
AA 90                            3       (1970-1972)
(CEM - Diesel Electric -
400 HP)
AM  lC00                         8       (1973-1974)
(Henshel - Diesel
Hydraulic - 400 HP)
Total             29
1/   The figure includes 5 locomotives of which the delivery was expected
by end-1976 or early 1977.



ANNEX 3
làble 1
page 2
2. Rolling Stock (as of September 30, 1976)
2.1  Passenger Coaches                   Existing (delivery)    Recent order (delivery)  /
2.1.1  Sleeping cars                        3        (1952)
2       (1963)           (RGL) 5        (1977)
4        (1974)          (ADB) 4        (1978)
Total sleeping cars               9
2.1.2  lst Class                            2        (1952)          (RGL) 5      (1976-1977)
1        (1963)          (ADB) 4        (1977)
'Total lst Class                   3
2.1.3 2nd Class
- For express trains                 6       (1952)
4        (1963)
- For express trains and
railcars                          2        (1952)           (ADB) 20       (1977)
20     (1966-1969)
12     (1971-1972)
24     (1973-1975)
- For railcars only                il      (1954-1959)        (RGL) 20    (1976-1977)
18     (1961-1963)
Total 2nd Class                  97
2.1.4  Passenger coaches for sururban
trains
2nd Class                          12      (1924-1949)
2.1.5  Dining cars                          1        (1946)          (RGL) 5         (1977)
(ADB) 2        (1978)
2       (1963)
3       (1974)
Total Dining Cars                 6
2.2  Baggage Vans                           4        (1969)          (ADB) 2         (1977)
8        (1974)
Total Baggage Vans               12
1/   (ADB):  African Development Bank Loan
(RGL): Express Railcars - Stainless Steel type.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
page 3
Existing (delivery)
2.3  Service Coaches                    12
2.4 Freight Cars (as of October 1, 1976)
2.4.1  Cattle and Multipurpose Wagons
- 12-ton                         1       (1925)
- 15-ton                         2       (1931)
- 20-ton                       116    (1931-1942)
- 30-ton                        16       (1963)
- 35-ton                        70       (1973)  (multipurpose freight cars)
Total cattle and multipurpose
wagons                         205
2.4.2  Box Cars
- 30-ton                         8       (1946)
- 30-ton                       135       (1950)
- 30-ton                        65       (1956)
- 35-ton                        65       (1961)
- 35-ton                       109    (1963-1966)
- 35-ton                        85       (1969)
Total Box Cars                 467   1/
2.4.3  Gondolas
- 10-ton                         1       (1949)
- 20-ton                        75    (1924-1940)
- 30-ton                         6       (1946)
- 35-ton                        57    (1963-1970)
- 35-ton                        40       (1971)
- 35-ton                        30       (1974)
Total Gondolas                 209
2.3.4  Flat Cars and Automobile
Carriers                        95       ( < 1947)
96    (1948-1975)
191
2.3.5  Hopper cars and Service
Freight Cars                   128    (1917-1971)
2.3.6  Leased Cars                      27
TOTAL:                        1227 1/ YJ
1/  Some of the box-cars damaged by fire in Ouagadougou are expected to be written off,
réducing the number of box cars to 456 and the total number of freight cars to 1,216.
2/ Privately owned tank cars (114, 1952-1975) are not included.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Operational Plan of Action
1.        A draft operational plan of action was established by the mission
and discussed in detail with RAN's management during the appraisal mission.
This plan of action was translated into operational targets incorporated
in a table handed over to the railway management who agreed on the proposed
targets.
2.        The target figures presented in the attached tables have been
reviewed and/or completed in light of subsequent information received or
analyses made by the mission. Final agreement on these targets has been
reached during negotiations. These targets are demanding but considered
as achievable. They cannot be achieved, however, without considerable effort
by RAN's top management and departmental managerial staff, supported by the
Consulting.Services, Training and Technical Assistance programs included in
the project.
3.        In brief, the .operational plan of action is aimed at:
(i) 'obtaining the best possible output from RAN's equipment,
mainly motive power and rolling stock in terms of:
locomotive, passenger coach and freight car
. availability;
average net load per freight car;
-    average gross load per train or locomotive;
-    turnaround time of rolling stock; and
-    average daily mileage of motive power and.
freight cars;
(ii) minimizing the maintenance and repair costs of equipment
by both improving productivity in the workshops and
reducing the number of accidents; and
(iii) improving the overall productivity of the railway staff.
If improvement can be achieved in these areas, they will provide savings which
can improve substantially the financial position of the railway.
4.        The first phase of the studies to be executed by the consultants in
charge of the Management and Operations Consulting Services will be the
identification of problems, the formulation of recommendations, and the
preparation of a plan of action for the implementation of these recommenda-
tions. The final goal being to improve the quality of service, particular
attention has to be devoted to balanced operational plans for carrying both



ANNEX 4
Page 2
passenger traffic and the major commodities transported by the railway
(cement, petroleum and sugar traffic), where the largest growth is expected,
with the object of having services with attractive characteristics. The
elaboration of these balanced plans of transport is, therefore, a critical
part of the study phase of the Management and Operations Consulting Services,
because good transport plans will have a direct impact on the efficiency of
the whole system. It has been agreed that these transport plans will be
established and furnished to the Bank for its review and comments, not later
than September 30, 1978.



IVORY COAST - UPPER VOLTA
REGIE ABIDJAN-NIGER
FREIGHT TRAFFIC AND OPERATIONAL TARGETS
Ob je ct ives
Description of Factors          1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975          1976       1978    1979    1980    1981    1982                    Remarks
A. FREIGHT TRAFFIC TARGETS
(million net ton-km)                                                                               560      610      660      710      750    Excluding service traffic and
transportation of empty
B. OPERATIONAL TARGETS                                                                                                                              containers and tank cars.
1. Number of mainline locomotives
performing long-distance
service (as of December 31)
CC1o0o                       20      20       20       20       20       18        18         18       12       (4)      (2)       0
CC1500                        8        8        8       8        8        8         8          8        8       (4)      (2)       0
CC2400    1/ 3/               6       6        6        6        5        5         5          (3)      0        0        0        0
B-BB 1800 -/3               _          2        6       6        8       10        22         22       31       40       43       46
Total                  34       36       40       40      41       41         53         51       51       48       47       46
2. Availability of mainline
locomotives (%) 2/
CC1000                       90.5    80.2    95.0    78.1    87.0    77.8          73          75      75       --       --       --
CC1500                       84.8    82.9    80.7    76.2    44.4    62.5          63.5       65        70      --       --       --
CC2400                       72.3    76.6    61.3    55.2    68.5    20.0          28.8        --      --       --       --       --
B-BB 1800                    --      86.3    92.3    63.2    79.4    58.8          65.1        75      77       80       81       82
3. Average gross load per                                                                                                                        All trains except express
locomotive 4/                    521     524       532     491      471      458      (419)        500      550     600      600      600    trains.
4. Average monthly mileage of
the B-BB 1800 locomotives
(or equivalent future loco-
motives) (km)  5/                 --    N.A.   11483   10706    7506    7394           7767       7600    7800    7900    8000    8000    1972-73, express trains only
5. Total annual mileage of                                                                                                                        Only 1978-82 figures
mainline locomotives                                                                                                                           enmt 98          fges
(1000 km) 6/                   2779    2922    3170    3395    3179    2946    (3200)            4200    4000    3950    4200    4400    oeftrmafic fonecasts.
>4



Objectives
Description of Factors               1970    1971    1972    1973    1974         1975    1976       1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
6. Average mileage per mainline
locomotive breakdown (km)
B-BB 1800                            --      N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    19000   21748         30000   40000   50000-  60000   65000
All locomotives                     N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    12650   12564                     --       --      --       --
7. Rolling stock availability (%)
Freight cars (average)                96       96       96      98       97        90      94         96       96       96      96       96
Passenger coaches (2nd class)         90       90       95      80       90        83       81        95       95       95      95       95
8. Turnaround time of freight cars
(days) 7/
Cattle wagons                                                   10.1    13.4       16.2               il       10        9        9       9
Multi-purpose wagons                                                                                  17       16       15       15      15
Box cars (ordinary)                                             10.1    13.9       16.6               il       10        9.5     9        9
Gondolas                                                         il                                     6       6        6        6       6
Tank cars                                                        15      14.7      15.2               il       il       10        9       9
9. Average daily mileage of freight
cars (km)                                61.5    63.7    78.9    86.5    79.1         59.9    81.4        82      82       85       87      90
10. Average load of freight cars (ton)
Cattle wagons                       N.A.    N.A.    N.A.          5.97    6.86    6.86  N.A.            9       9        9        9       9.5
Box cars (northbound)               N.A.    N.A.    N.A.         19.79   22.04   20.21  N.A.          21       21.8    22.4    22.4    22.4
Box cars (southbound)               N.A.    N.A.    N.A.         16.45   19.78   15.34                 16.5    16.5    17        17      17
All freight cars                      16.1    17.3    18         19.1    18.5      19.8    20.2        20.5    21       21       21       21.5
11. Average daily mileage (km)
2nd class passenger coaches and
railcar trailers                     301      285      289     283      289       329    N.A.        335      350      375      390     400
2nd class passenger coaches
included in the express trains 8/ N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.            248    N.A.        300      400      500      550     600
12. Staff  9/                               4143    4230    4429    4547    4572        4892    5039        5200    5240    5240    5340    5440
M1
a-x



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Notes
The figures between brackets are either tentative or subject
to further correction.
1/   B-BB 1,800 or future equivalent locomotives.
2/   Sources:  RAN's Annual Reports for 1970-1974;
MP&RS Department for 1975;
Sampling made by Bank's Mission for 1976
The availability factor referred to is the Technical Availability
Factor (100-Immobilization percentage).
3/   5 Locomotives scheduled for delivery end-1976 or early 1977 included
in the 1976 figure.
4/   1970-1976 = Source:  RAN's Operations Department.
1978-1979 = Overall objectives for the ratio (Total Annual Gross Ton
Kilometers/Total Annual Freight and Service Train Kilometers).
The objectives for long distance freight trains should be
1,000 Gross Tons/Locomotive for northbound traffic and
700 Gross Tons/Locomotive for southbound traffic providing
an average gross load of the order of magnitude of 850 tons.
5/   1972-1973   High figures that can be explained by the fact that the
B-BB 1,800 locomotives were utilized only for express
trains (passenger trains).
6/   1970-1975 = Source:  RAN's Annual Reports--Table A--MP&RS Department
Section of the Annual Report.
7/   Figures evaluated by Bank's mission--statistics and most of data needed
for this particular point are not maintained by RAN.
Turnaround time defined as time elapsed between two consecutive loadings
(predominant traffic).
8/   Target determined assuming (i) one daily express train with 12 second
class coaches in each express train; (ii) 25% of additional vehicles
as reserve; and (iii) time allocated for current maintenance between round
trips Abidjan-Ouagadougou-Abidjan: 7 hours (new maintenance facilities).
9/   - The figures include technical assistance and both permanent and
temporary staff for the operations but exclude temporary staff
assigned to investment programs (about 800 workers in 1976).



ANNEX 4
Page 6
- Staff of SWLHT is included from 1971, when RAN took over this
service previously managed by CIWL (Compagnie Internationale des
Wagons Lits). From 1976, the figures also include permanent staff
of SEGI (RAN's quarry producing stone ballast in the Ivory Coast)
with about 70 workers.
- 1970-1975 figures represent staff as of December 31 (RAN's annual
reports).
- 1976: actual number of staff as of September 30, 1976 (Source:
RAN's Finance Department).
- From 1971 to 1976, the breakdown of staff numbers was the following:
1971  1972   1973   1974   1975  1976 (Sept.30)
Operations Department         816   820    869    916    956   1050
Motive Power and Rolling
Stock Department           1535  1632   1661   1612   1787   1750
Track and Works Department
and Telecom-Signalling   1375  1298   1287   1250   1246   1350
Civil Works Department         48    58      72      72      87    218
Administration                271   389    430    431    534    460
SWLHT                         105   153    219    219    211    272
Technical Assistance           80    79      75      72      71     64
Total                      4230  4429   4547   4572   4892   5164



ANNEX 5
Page 1
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Passenger Traffic
Past Traffic
1.        Table I gives the historical traffic volumes for the period 1960-
1975. The time series for the number of passengers presents a clear linear
trend with an average annual increase of 86,795 passengers (least squares
estimate). It represents an increase of 2.9% from the 1975 traffic level.
Passenger traffic volumes expressed in passenger-km increased much more
rapidly. The growth of pass-km corresponds to an increasing share of long-
distance traffic generated predominantly by migrant workers from Upper Volta.
The economic recession in the Ivory Coast in 1974/75 apparently interrupted
the otherwise continuous increase of migrating labor.
2.        The 1960-1975 period was characterized by an increase in average
travel distance from 144 km in 1960 to 315 km in 1975. The interstate traffic
has grown at a faster pace than Ivorian domestic traffic. Simultaneously,
there has been a shift toward longer journeys in the latter traffie as the
share of road transport increased for short trips following improvements in
road infrastructure.
3.        Table II distinguishes three components in RAN's passenger traffie:
domestic traffic of the Ivory Coast, domestic traffic of Upper Volta and in-
terstate traffic. These statistics, provided by RAN's computer center, do
not exist for the years preceeding 1973. They cover only journeys for which
tickets are purchased in railway stations (i.e. 93.7% on average of total
traffic).  They show that almost two thirds of RAN's passenger traffic volume
(64.7% between 1973 and 1976) are generated by interstate traffic. As the
percentage of first-class passengers in interstate traffic is low (2.6%), the
second-class interstate traffic accounts for 63% of RAN's total passenger
traffic expressed in pass-km the period 1973-1976 and for 67% at the end of
this period.
4.        On the average 96.2% of the passenger traffic volume in passenger-
km took place in second class during the period 1970-1975 (94.2% in number
of passengers). Thus, the distinction between first and second classes is
not significant for traffie analysis and revenue calculation.
Future Traffic
5.        The population growth of the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta and the
fast pace of the Ivorian economic development are the two major factors



ANNEX 5
Page 2
responsible for the growth of RAN's passenger traffic. The rapid economic
growth of the Ivory Coast has created an important demand for labor, mostly
unskilled. It has generated both domestic traffic within the Ivory Coast
and, to an even larger extent, interstate traffic. About two-thirds of RAN's
traffic volume in pass-km is presently due to Upper Voltan migrant workers
seeking employment in the Ivory Coast and visiting or returning to their home
country.
6.        To capture these two effects, a linear regression model using as
independent variables the combined populations of the Ivory Coast and
Upper Volta ("POP") and the Ivorian Gross Domestic Product ("GDP") in 1973
constant prices has been applied; it established the following relationships
(least square estimates) with P-KM as the traffic volume in pass-km and P,
the number of passengers:
2
P-KM (million) = 614.5 + 1.07 GDP + .075 POP (R  = .94)
2
P ('000)        = 542.1 + 1.16 GDP + .144 POP (R  = .94)
The preceeding regressions are a good representation of the forces at play
and incorporate the major causalities which are known to generate the traffic
demand.
7.        For forecasting purposes, a rate of growth of 6% is assumed
for the Ivorian GDP until 1980 and a rather conservative rate of 4% there-
after. Increases in resident population are based on the trend of recent
years: 3% for the Ivory Coast and 1.2% for Upper Volta. These estimates
assume continuing emigration from Upper Volta to the Ivory Coast. Based
on these assumptions and the above equations, the following results have
been obtained for the forecast period:
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Pass-km
(million)     1090   1142   1213   1288   1348   1411   1476   1543   1612
Passengers
('000)        3169   3243   3340   3441   3527   3616   3707   3802   3899
8.        The above figures must be complemented by accounting for the impact
of faster and more comfortable additional service on the Abidjan-Ouagadougou
and Abidjan-Bouake routes. RAN is presently introducing this service using
new rolling stock and intends to attract a wealthier clientele looking for
comfort, safety and time-savings when choosing a mode of transport. This new
service, for which RAN will probably charge a surtax of about 20%, is expected
to reduce travel times between Abidjan and Ouagadougou from 27 to 21 hours and



ANNEX 5
Page 3
between Abidjan and Bouake from seven to five hours.  The impact of this new
service is difficult to estimate as no market survey has been made. There
are, however, a number of factors which tend to reduce its impact, including
the increased level of competition from road and air transport when catering
for middle- and high-income customers and the RAN's difficulty to consistently
provide the high quality of service necessary to attract and retain such
customers.  Given these uncertainties, the expected incremental traffic due
to the new service has been kept at a conservative level:
1977     1978      1979      1980 onwards
Incremental p-km
(million)               25        25        30         36
9.        The passenger traffic forecast given in Table III consists of
the aggregate of the figures in the two above tables. It corresponds to
an average increase of 70 million pass-km/year (or 5.7% p.a.) and 94,400
passengers/year (or 2.8% p.a.). Even though the forecasts are derived
from expected Ivorian economic and regional population growth and not from
extrapolation of past trends, they appear consistent with the historical
trend (6.7% and 2.9% respectively at 1975 levels).
10.       During the last three years 28% of RAN passengers have used the
stretch Bouake-Petionara which will be realigned under the proposed project.
There is a long-term tendency for this percentage to increase since long-
distance traffic prevails on this section and since this type of traffic
will continue to increase its share of total traffic.  For the present
analysis it has nevertheless been assumed that the 28% ratio will remain
constant over the period 1976-85.



RAN
First Railway Project
Passenger Traffic 1960-1975
1960     1964      1966      1967      1968     1969      197u       1971    1972      1973    1974    1975
Passenger-km (mil.)  219        469       517       478       541      522       626        701     777       883      918      946
Passengers ('000)  1,524    2,202    2,370    2,236    2,509    2,478    2,565           2,630   2,595    2,827   2,931   3,006
Mean distance (km) 143.7        213    218.1    213.8    215.6    210.7    244.1          266.5   299.4    312.3   313.2   314.7
M t
Cw
fD X<
F- vn



ANNEX 5
Table 2
DOMESTIC AND INTERSTATE COMPONENTS OF RAN PASSENGER TRAFFIC 1/
1976
1973        1974         1975        (Jan-May) Average
Ivory Coast:  Number of passengers    1,657,298   1,686,785   1,754,730           751,110
Mean distance (km)           140          146          154           143
Passenger-km ('000s)        233,560     247,755      270,362       108,016
Upper Volta:  Number of passengers         308,189      394,078      398,400      191,192
Mean distance (km)           177          174          172           170
Passenger-km ('000s)         54,840       68,951       68,551       32,532
Interstate:   Number of passengers         689,204      697,474      678,493      375,853
Mean distance (km)           781          789          801           808
Passenger-km ('000s)        538,936      550,423      543,877      303,763
TOTAL:         Number of passengers    2,654,691   2,778,337   2,831,623   1,318,155
Mean distance (km)           311          311          311           337
Passenger-km ('000S)        827,337      865,129      882,792      444,311
Interstate p-km/Total p-km                 65.1%        63.6%        61.6%         68.4%    64.7%
Total passenger-km (million)                883          918          946           n.a.
% of p-km covered by this statistic        93.7%        94.2%        93.3%          n.a.    93.7%
2nd class interstate p-km ('000s)          525,823      536,006      527,011      297,353
2nd class interstate p-km/Total p-km    63.6%            62%         59.7%         66.9%`    63%
Interstate lst class p-km/lnterstate p-km 2.4%           2.7%         3.1%          2.1%      2.6%
1/ Including only trips for which tickets have been sold in the railway stations, rather
than in the train.



RAN
First Railway Project
Passenger Traffic Forecasts 1976-1985
1975    19761/   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
A. Total Traffic
Pass-km (million)    946    1040        1115   1168   1244   1324   1384  -1447   1511   1578   1647
Passengers ('000)   3006    3123        3241   3279   3383   3492   3578   3666   3758   3853   3950
Mean distance (km)   315       333       344    356    368    379    387    395    402    410    417
B. Bouaké-Pétionara
Traffic
Passengers ('000)    842       864       892    918       943   967    989   1011   1052   1079   1106
1/ Based on actual traffic January to November 1976.
Ft3 
PM >



ANNEX 6
Page 1
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic Forecast
1.        The forecasts focus on the individual projections of the goods
and commodities responsible for the bulk of the railway freight traffic.
These forecasts assume a reasonable level of operational efficiency in rail
service. They are the result of a dynamic interaction between RAN's market-
ing strategy and the demand for transport by potential customers, taking
into account keen competition with road transport.
2.        The RAN's comparative advantage lies in carrying at relatively low
costs major commodities and general cargo (possibily containerized) on long
hauls between Abidjan and northern Ivory Coast, Upper Volta and southeastern
Mali. The average haul between 1970 and 1975 increased by 17% (to 700 km),
reflecting the loss of much short and medium-haul traffic to road competition.
This trend is not expected to continue as the railway has already lost the
traffic most vulnerable to competition.
3.        Six commodities form the backbone of RAN freight traffic:  cotton,
oil-seeds, sugar, petroleum products, cement and fertilizers; their aggregate
share increased from 42% of RAN commercial freight in 1970 to 56% in 1975.
RAN plays a secondary role in the transport of the three major Ivorian export
commodities--timber, coffee and cocoa--due to the roads' comparative advan-
tage (good network, short-haul, geographic dispersion). Since the decision
on the Tambao Manganese Project is pending, the forecasts do not include
transporting the corresponding ore.
4.        RAN's freight traffic dropped 22% between 1973 to 1975.  Poor crops
in the Sahel reduced transport demand, and priority given by RAN to transport-
ing food relief gave rise to a deterioration of service for other customers
which caused traffic to be diverted to the road. Road competition became even
more acute with an upsurge in the over-capacity of the trucking industry due
to a drop in Ivorian timber exports. The economic recovery and a relative
improvement in the Sahel situation explain the increase in traffic in 1976.
Road Transport Competition
5.        The road system in the region served by RAN is comparatively well
developed, particularly in the Ivory Coast. An efficient trucking industry
has been successfully competing for short- and medium-haul cargo. Some
additional road construction in the railway's zone of influence is under-
way or being planned.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
The Road Links Lome-Ouagadougou and Tema-Ouagadougou
6.        The Lome-Ouagadougou road is expected to be asphalted by about
1983 (with FED financing). Upper Volta and Togo have taken the necessary
steps to make the 1,000 km Ouagadougou-Lome road a viable although more
costly alternative to the 150-km longer Abidjan-Ouagadougou corridor:
(i) An agreement dated July 1974 allocates two-thirds
of the interstate freight tonnage to Upper Voltan
truckers and one-third to the Togolese;
(ii) a freight agency for international trucking has been
established in Lome; and
(iii) a 5,000 m2 warehouse for Upper Volta freight has been
financed by a US$0.9 million grant from KfW in the port
of Lome.
7.        Official tariffs for transport between Upper Volta and Togo do not
presently exist. Freight rates were about at CFAF 15 per ton-km for large
trucks in 1976. This is 13% or US$7.60 per ton above Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail
transport costs for general cargo and 27% or US$14 per ton above rail costs
for imported cereals and foodstuff, based on RAN's 1976 tariff and assuming
in both cases that rail transport necessitates an additional transshipment
costing US$3.5 per ton. A 1976 transport sector study for Upper Volta, pre-
pared by French Consultants BCEOM, analyzes total transport costs for general
cargo from f.o.b. Rotterdam or Le Havre to delivery in Ouagadougou on differ-
ent routes. The study concludes that, due to higher sea-freight rates among
other things, shipping through Lome would cost at least $25/ton more than
through Abidjan. The cost differential would be substantially higher for most
other commodities and origins and destinations in Upper Volta (other than
Ouagadougou), particularly for the Bobo-Dioulasso region, the origin of about
half of Upper Volta's exports and the final destination of a large part of its
imports. Only for shipments to and from southeastern Upper Volta, close
to the Togolese border, would costs through Abidjan or Lome be roughly equal.
However, not much traffic is generated in this part of the country.
8.        Future upgrading of the Lome-Ouagadougou link is expected to reduce
vehicle operating costs and, accordingly, freight rates by about 10%. In the
meantime, railway operating costs will be reduced by about the same percentage
due to expected productivity increases. The existing substantial cost advan-
tage of RAN is, therefore, expected to continue to exist.
9.        The cost situation as described above has until now virtually ex-
cluded a commercial use of the Lome-Ouagadougou connection. In 1974, the
only year for which data are available, only about 1,000 tons of general
cargo and about 4,000 tons of relief food was transported from Togo to Upper
Volta. In the same year exports from Upper Volta to Togo were limited to some



ANNEX 6
Page 3
cattle, about 500 tons of sheep carried by truck and about 1,000 tons of
bovines being driven to Togo. Any major increase in the above transport
volumes would be subject to one or several of the following conditions to
materialize:
(i) an allocation of traffic to the Lome route by the
Government of Upper Volta. The Voltaic Ministry of
Public Works and Transport indicated, however, that
it intends to let the different routes compete with
each other instead of allocating traffic;
(ii) increased traffic generation in southwestern Upper Volta;
there are, however, no projects under preparation or
implementation which would generate substantial amounts
of traffic; or
(iii) congestion and/or a severe deterioration of quality of
service in the port of Abidjan and/or on RAN; this,
however, would be unexpected in view of the investment
programs of both the port and the railway. Capacity pro-
blems, in particular on the railway, and corresponding
diversion of traffic are expected in the case of massive
food-relief transports.
Future traffic on the Lome-Ouagadougou road is, therefore, expected to be
largely limited to some local and regional trade and to possible relief food
transports.
10.       The Tema-Ouagadougou road is asphalted on its entire length, and
the deteriorated section between Kumasi and Accra is being reconstructed or
rehabilitated, partly with Bank assistance (First and Second Highway Projects).
This connection is of about the same length as the Lome-Ouagadougou road, but
virtually no Upper Volta traffic is carried through the port of Tema due to
administrative and currency difficulties, the difference in language, and high
costs. Trucking costs from Tema to Ouagadougou are somewhat cheaper than from
Lome, but handling charges in Tema are substantially higher than in Lome, thus
making total transport costs through Tema about $15/ton more expensive than
through Lome.  No diversion from Abidjan to Tema is, therefore, expectèd, with
the possible exception of relief food transports.
11.       There is some regional trade between Ghana and Upper Volta, the
latter importing mainly salt and timber and the former vegetables and
cattle, the latter being driven. The total volume, excluding cattle,
amounted to about 30,000 tons in 1974 and should continue to grow at a
moderate pace.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
The Abidjan-Ouagadougou Road Link and Road Transport Prices
12.       There are three major projects to upgrade the Abidjan-Ouagadougou
road system which parallels the railway:
(a) construction of the 105 km Abidjan-Ndouci expressway,
now expected to be completed as far as Sikensi (71 km) by
1978;
(b)  paving of the 185-km Katiola-Ferkessedougou road by 1978;
and
(c) reconstruction to paved standards of the 183-km Banfora-Bobo
Dioulasso-Hounde road in Upper Volta by 1978.
By 1978 this will reduce the non-paved sections of the Abidjan-Oua6adougou
road to 309 km out of a total 1,150 km. It appears realîstic to expect
that these 309 km will also be paved by 1985 or earlier.
13.       The above road construction program will further increase roa'
competition for RAN and entail some loss of the railway's share of traffic
for those commodities and transport distances where the railway does not have
a considerable cost advantage.
14.       Official Ivorian road tariffs are mostly within the range CFAF 13
to 19 per ton-km (cf. Table VII), but they do not seem to be strictly applied
due to overcapacity in the trucking industry, the high seasonal fluctuation of
the demand for transport and the laxity of government controls. The trucking
industry is composed of small truckers and well-organized truck companies with
fleets of 4 to 40 trucks; the share of the small truckers is about 80% of the
freight volume. Organized trucking companies specialize in regular-scheduled
transport, and the former work more often "a la demande" and try to undercut
their competitors during the low season. They may have agreements with the
clients who helped to finance their trucks. It is likely that organized
trucking companies charge more than the official tariff because they advance
cost-figures of CFAF 20-21 per ton-km. Organized trucking companies reduce
their operations during the four months of the low season when they are in
direct competition with the independent ones.
15.       No systematic and reliable information on actually charged trucking
prices does exist, and even extensive field research would probably not pro-
duce reliable data because the parties concerned may not wish to communicate
correct information. There is, however, some indication that during the
season of high transport demand trucking prices are in the range of official
tariffs, but during the low season they are below official tariffs.  The
Ivorian Government is now limiting the access of the trucking industry with
the objective of eliminating existing overcapacity by 1979. Actually charged
trucking prices may thus somewhat increase during the next three years and
may possibly, from about 1980 on, remain throughout each year within the
range of official tariffs.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
16.       Based on RAN's present tariff, the railway's average revenue per
ton-km is CFAF 8.96 which is substantially below official road tariffs and,
probably even in the low season, below actually charged trucking prices.
Thus, RAN has a clear cost advantage for long hauls and even for relatively
short hauls where rail transport does not necessitate additional costs for
transshipment and on-carriage. This is confirmed by the 1974 data for
road transport between Upper Volta and the Ivory Coast. About half of the
total road transport of 35,000 tons is generated by traders-transporters
who carry their own goods: cola nuts northbound and sheep southbound. In
addition trucking is used for some imports of construction material2 and some
exports of oil seeds.
Abidjan-Mali Traffic
17.       About one half of Mali's import and export traffic passes through
Abidjan, and it is expected that the volume of traffic will, with the ex-
ception of petroleum products, continue to grow albeit at a much slower rate
than in the past thus ensuring that in the future the majority of Mali's
international traffic will be shipped through Dakar. RAN carried about one-
third of this traffic (see Table V) until 1974. The sudden drop in 1975 is due
to the tapering off of relief food transports and the virtual closure of the
Mali-Upper Volta border due to political troubles.
18.       Past traffic statistics are not likely to provide sound grounds for
extrapolation because of the impact of structural changes in the rail/road
competition and in the transport of petroleum products; furthermore, the
closure of the Mali-Upper Volta border brought to an end combined road/rail
transports to and from Mali via Bobo-Dioulasso. It is presently not known when
and if the Mali-Upper Volta border will reopen for commercial traffic.
19.       RAN plans substantial expansion of its terminal capacity in
Ouangalodougou (northern Ivory Coast) for warehousing and transshipment of
Mali freight. The Ivorian Ministry of Public Works is seriously concerned
about the damage being done to Ivorian roads by the heavy and often over-
loaded Malian trucks going to and from Abidjan, and some limitation of the
use of Ivorian roads by Malian trucks may be imposed. RAN's Mali traffic may,
therefore, increase in the future much more rapidly than forecast in this
report should the above developments materialize.
20.       The official and generally applied trucking tariff for Mali
traffic was in 1975 CFAF 13.5 per ton-km for most northbound traffic and
CFAF 6.6 to 9.2 per ton-km for southbound traffic. This makes combined
road/rail transport via Ouangolodougou more expensive than road transport
for southbound traffic and cheaper for most northbound traffic (see Table
VI).
21.       The Bank proposes that the financing of the Third Mali Railway
Project will not become effective until the Malian government has taken the
requisite steps to ensure that a portion of Mali petroleum product imports



ANNEX 6
Page 6
which it controls are transferred from the Abidjan to the Dakar route, thus
giving some basic assurance that the Ilali Railway will remain solvent. The
planned diversion from the Abidjan to the Dakar route is estimated at 30,000
tons p.a., distributed over 2 to 3 years. This diversion corresponds to
about 20% of the average annual growth of road transport of petroleum pro-
ducts from Abidjan. Thus, the diversion would only slightly slow down the
growth of road transport of petroleum products and would not have a mea-
surable effect on RAN.
RAN's Marketing Strategy
22.       To successfully cope with road competition and maintain its financial
viability, RAN needs to implement an adequate marketing strategy, an outline
of which follows:
(i) acquire and maintain a large share of transport volume for
those commodities and destinations for which the railway
has a substantial cost advantage and can offer a competitive
quality of service. To transport other commdodities, the
railway should maintain a good working relation with the
major forwarding companies serving the region;
(ii) maintain RAN's leading role in the transport of Upper Volta's
international traffic through efficient service and competitive
tariffs;
(iii) regain at least RAN's 1974 share of the Mali traffic going
through Abidjan, which since then has been diverted to trucks,
by appropriate arrangements with the Malian authorities and,
if necessary, by adequately equipping RAN's facilities in
Ouangolodougou; and
(iv) gain a major share of the growing container traffic, mostly
being carried by road, between Abidjan, Upper Volta, Mali
and northern Ivory Coast by eliminating inefficiencies through
procurement of adequate terminal equipment and setting up a
separate organization, possibly as a joint venture with for-
warders to provide competitive door-to-door service. The
Societe Africaine de Groupage (SAG), in which RAN's 30% parti-
cipation is expected to be increased to a majority, is a likely
partner.
23.       The traffic forecasts assume that the implementation of (i), which
is already underway, will be reasonably successful, and that the implementa-
tion of (ii) will be equally successful with the exception of commodities such
as metal products, foodstuffs, beverages and various products where the share
of the railway did, or is expected to, decrease due to road competition.
Regaining Mali's traffic is still uncertain, and RAN's future role in con-
tainer traffic is at an early study phase. Realization of (iii) and (iv)
would add some 100,000 tons to RAN's 1980 traffic volume in addition to the
forecast.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
24.       Bovines from Upper Volta to the Ivory Coast are being exclusively
carried by rail due to their high casualty rate during road transport. Since
the cattle population decreased during the drought, both Malian and Upper
Voltan authorities are determined to limit their exports till a satisfactory
replenishment level is reached, which could take several years. Should the
restrictions be ineffective, the demand for transport would return sooner to
pre-drought levels.
25.       According to the Bank's economic reports, the prospects for cotton
and oil seed production are considered to be quite good, with growth rates
averaging 7% for northern Ivory Coast, Upper Volta and Mali. With an
estimated 120,000 tons, 1976 would set a record for the volume of oil seeds
transported by rail; this results from the exceptional karite crop and
a recent demand for rail transport of cattle cake, which should remain high.
Oil seed previsions start in 1977 at a conservative level of 102,000 tons and
grow at an average geometric rate of 2.6% till 1985. Karite and groundnuts
yields are highly volatile but have been countercyclical to each other: in
1975 groundnut production was 24,000 tons while karite production was neglig-
ible; in 1976 karite production was 35,000 tons while groundnut production
was negligible.
Sugar and Molasses
26.       Sugar projections include only Ivorian domestic production, in which
the Ivory Coast government plans to invest heavily during the next ten years
with a production target of 600,000 tons in 1985. A first sugar plant
(Ferke I) came on stream in Ferkessedougou in 1975. Forecasts are based on
a substantially slower implementation of the Ivory Coast's sugar plan, as
expected by the Bank's economic mission, and on the Government's decision
to transport the sugar by rail through construction of industrial sidings
to those sugar plants which will be located in the vicinity of the railway,
as it has been done for Ferke I.
Production and Transport of Sugar 1975 - 1985
(in '000 tons)
1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1985
Ferke I              5    15    30    40    45    50    55    55    55
Ferke II                                      10    20    30    40    55
Silue                                                      10    20    40
Total           5    15    30    40    55    70    95   115   150
Rail transport
to Abidjan         5    12    24    32    44    56    76    92   120



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Sugar production generates a transport demand for molasses which will reach
one-third of the sugar volume once the modalities of transport are decided
on and put into operation. Discussions between RAN and companies concerned
are underway.
Logs
27.       Exploitation of secondary species of Sile began in 1976 and will
generate for the next ten years a steady shipment of logs to Abidjan which
will reach 30,000 t/year from 1978 onwards.
Petroleum Products
28.       Transport tariffs for petroleum products in the Ivory Coast and
Upper Volta are presently CFAF 28 per ton-km by road and about CFAF 12.2 by
rail, the latter including CFAF 1 per ton-km for maintenance and depreciation
of tank cars owned by the oil companies. The difference of about CFAF 16 per
ton-km, which probably exceeds the economic cost differential, gives a strong
incentive to the oil companies to use the railway. There are four depots
along the railway: at Bouake, Ferke, Bobo and Ouagadougou. As these depots
are located adjacent to the railway stations, rail transport does not neces-
sitate additional transshipment. Almost all traffic to depots north of
Bouake goes by rail, and this should remain unchanged. Transport to Bouake
is by road when there is insufficient tank car capacity. Moreover, the
Ivorian "Caisse de Perequation" reimburses the oil companies for road tran-
sport costs to Bouake but not beyond this point, where only RAN's tariff is
reimbursed. During negotiations the Ivory Coast Government was asked to
analyze the policy of reimbursing for transport to Bouake more than RAN's
tariffs and its possible consequences on an uneconomic allocation of traffic.
29.       Recently, the Ivorian and Upper Voltan goveraments reached an agree-
ment under which Upper Volta will become a minority shareholder of the govern-
ment-owned Societe Ivoirienne de Raffinage (SIR), the refining company in
Abidjan. SIR's capacity, presently 2 million tons, is planned to be ex-panded
to 3 million tons by 1980 and beyond that thereafter. It is therefore realis-
tic to assume that all Upper Volta's imports of petroleum products will
continue to come from Abidjan and will be carried by RAN. The same has been
assumed for the Ferkessedougou area. Transports to Bouake will probably
continue to be partly carried by road, and the conservative assumption was
made that rail transports for this destination will not increase beyond the
moderate 1975 level.
30.       Growth of demand is based on the Bank's economic forecasts and agreed
upon by representatives of the major oil companies.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
Cement
31.       RAN's present cement tariff is about CFAF 7.9 per ton-km, about
15% above marginal costs and about the same percentage below the railway's
total costs for carrying this commodity. Road transport prices for cement
fluctuate sharply between CFAF 7 and 13 per ton-km as a function of variations
of seasonal transport demand and occasional price competition for return loads
between truckers. All cement is transported in bags.
32.       The Ivorian cement manufacturers consider this unstable situation
unsatisfactory and are reorganizing their distribution system. Specifically,
the Societe des Ciments d'Abidjan (SCA), with a current output of 800,000 tons
of cement, 60% of the Ivorian production, constructs warehouses as regional
distribution centers on railway terrain in Dimbokro, Bouake, Ferkessedougou
and Ouangolodougou. Also SCA plans to modernize and extend its wagon loading
facilities in Abidjan. Negotiations are currently underway with SCA for a
transport contract between RAN and SCA bypassing the forwarders. An acceptable
transport contract including adequate arrangements for future increases of
RAN's cement traffic should be presented to the Bank for review by Septembert
30, 1977.
33.       The forecasts assume that the railway's share of cement transport
will increase considerably following implementation of these arrangements.
Conclusion of a similar agreement with the second Ivorian cement producer
would increase RAN's transport volume over the present forecast. In line with
SCA's and the Bank's forecasts, an annual increase of demand of transport for
cement of 10% in the Ivory Coast and 8% in Upper Volta is expected. Provisions
cement transport to Mali are highly tentative given the structural uncertainty
of the Malian traffic. Thus, no significant increase has been assumed.
Metal Products
34.       The 1976 estimates are based on a high tonnage actually transported
during the first eight months. Thereafter, it is assumed that it will parallel
the total transport volume as rail is the cheapest mode of transport for this
cargo which is equally sensitive to transport costs and quality of service.
Fertilizers
35.       Fertilizers are a potential growth market for RAN since demand in
northern Ivory Coast, Upper Volta and Mali continues to increase rapidly and
since RAN has a substantial cost advantage over road transport. This is
confirmed by past increases of railway traffic and SIVENG, the distribution
company of the fertilizer plant. Because the buyer has the choice of the mode
of transport, both the quality of the service and transport costs are important
factors.
Food and Beverages
36.       Forecasts of food imports by Upper Volta and Mali are based on the
Bank's expectation that they will remain more or less at their current level.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
The International Food Policy Research Institute, however, foresees a food
deficit of 4 million tons for the Sahel region in 1985. The impact on the
demand for rail transport may be minimal because, after experiencing the in
flexibility of the railway in the early 1970's and delays in shipping urgent
cargo, food relief organizations may downplay the importance of cost in the
choice of a mode of transport. For instance, USAID food shipments to Upper
Volta will use the Lome-Ouagadougou road link rather than the railway at
about twice the cost.
Miscellaneous
37.       Southbound and northbound transport of miscellaneous commodities
appears sensitive to road competition. This is due to the perceived higher
quality of service of road transport and to the comparatively small cost
advantage of rail transport. The railway's share of transports will therefore
drop further, rather rapidly until 1980 and somewhat slower thereafter. The
losses will be heavier for the southbound traffic due to the imbalance of
overall traffic volumes to and from northern Ivory Coast and Upper Volta,
which makes southound cargo particularly attractive for competing truckers.
Conclusion
38.       Table I presents the traffic volumes (t and t-km) realized during
the period 1970-1975. Tables II and III forecast the traffic volumes (t and
t-km) until 1985 as analyzed above. A freight traffic of 883 million t-km
and 1.4 million tons is expected for 1985. It corresponds to a growth rate of
6.5% based on the 1976 traffic of 504 million t-km. Figures for 1976 are pre-
liminary actual data.
39.       Table VI details the traffic expected on the stretch Bouake-Tafire
until 1985. This forecast is based on origin/destination analyses for indi-
vidual commodities included in the forecast for RAN's total freight traffic.



IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
Appraisal of a Regional Railway Project
Ran Freight Traffic 1970-1975
1970             1971              1972              1973              1974              1975
Tons   T-Km    Tons   T-Km        Tons   T-Km       Tons   T-Km       Tons   T-Km       Tons   T-Km
Southbound
Livestock          32.2   24.3    34.7   28.2         35.5   30        34.6   27.7       34.7   27.8       31.9   27.8
Cotton             39.9   25.1    39.8   23.8        45.1   26.5       35.8   25.4       36      23.2      31      17.5
Oil seeds          74.9   62.5    55.5   42.8         62.6   46.1      64.8   48.9       56.5   48.9       43.1   31.4
Sugar
Miscellaneous    122.9   33.8    85.6   28            72.5   24.8      53      26.5      43.6   27.2       61.3   34.7
Total South-      269.9  145.7   215.6  122.8    215.7  127.4    188.2  128.5    170.8  127.1    167.3  111.4
bound
Northbound
Petroleum         113.3   84.5   112.5   87.3    116.6   96.1          98.9   81.1    107        97       109.8   95.2
products
Cement             30.9   25.1    55.3   41.3         59.8   42.8      66.3   55.6       66.8   59.7       80.1   62.1
Metal pro-          8.1    8.8       7.5    6.7        6.6    6.3      36.7   38.7       26.7   20.2       10.7    8.4
ducts
Fertilizers         4.3    3.0    11.1    7.6        17.6   11.0       20.1   12.3       18.8   11.7       28.3   16.4
Food and          105.1   63.6   123       92.5    176.8  108.8    162.5  101.3    177.1  113.7            91      57.6
beverages
Miscellan-        108.3   62.1   119.5   68.8    116.2   64.5    119.4   62.1            62.5   34.6       48.5   25.6
eous
Total North-      370    247.1   428.9  304.2    493.6  329.5    503.9  351.1    458.9  336.9    368.4  265.3
bound                                                                                 4
GRAND TOTAL       639.9  392.8   644.5  427         709.3  456.9    692.1  479.6    629.7  464            535.7  376.7
Service           108.6    9.1   149.9   13.5    156.8   15.5    193.4   16.7            94.6   12        125      15.5
traffie
and
ballast
Tons expressed in '000s            T-Km expressed in Millions



ANNEX 6
Table 2
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic Forecasts
Tons ('000)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1985
Southbound
Livestock                23       25       27       30       35       37       39       44
Cotton                   40       45       50       54       58       62       66       77
Oil seeds               120      102      105      107      110      112      115      125
Sugar                    14       24       32       44       56       76       92      120
Timber (Logs)            10       20       30       30       30       30       30       30
Molasses                  3        4        6       10       19       25       30       40
Miscellaneous            24       26       25       25       25       25       25       25
Total                   234      246      275      300      333      367      397      461
Northbound
Petroleum products    118        130      143      157      170      181      193      233
Cement                   80      110      140      160      180      200     220      280
Metal products           28.5    30        32       34       35       36       37       40
Fertilizer               40       43       47       52       57       62       65      75
Food and beverage       123      125      125      120      120     120      120      120
Miscellaneous            64       66       68       70       72       74       76      83
Total northbound        453.5   504       555      593      634     673      711      831
Total southbound
and northbound         687.5   750       830     893      967    1040    1108    1292
Service & ballast       108      110      150      152     152      155      106      110
Total including
service & ballast       795.5   860       980    1045    1119    1195    1214    1402
1/  Preliminary actual figures.



ANNEX 6
Table 3
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic Forecasts
Ton-km (millions)
1976 -  1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1985
Southbound
Livestock             20.0    21.0    22.7    25.2    29.4    31.1    32.8    37.0
Cotton                19.6    22.8    25.0    25.7    29.5    32.0    35.0    41.0
Oil seeds             97.2    82.2    84.3    84.4    86.6    86.8    89.0    94.4
Sugar                  7.8    13.4    17.9    24.6    31.4    41.4    49.2    62.6
Timber                 1.3      2.5      3.75    3.75    3.75    3.75    3.75    3.75
Molasses                1.7     2.2      3.4     5.6    10.6    13.6    16.1    20.9
Miscellaneous           8.9    11.2    11.0    11.5    12.0    12.25   12.75   13.0
Total                156.5   155.3   168.0   180.8   203.2   220.9   238.5   272.6
Northbound
Petroleum products  101.7   111.8   123.8   135.5   147.1   158.0   167.9   204.1
Cement                58.2    72.8    87.6    99.8   112.1   124.0   136.0   171.0
Metal products        21.7    24.0    25.6    27.2    28.0    28.8    29.6    32.0
Fertilizer            23.8    25.8    28.7    32.2    35.9    39.1    41.0    47.3
Food and beverage    86.2    82.5    82.5    79.2    79.2    79.2    79.2    79.2
Miscellaneous         44.0    45.6    47.6    49.7    51.8    54.0    55.5    62.25
Total northbound    335.6   362.5   395.8   423.6   454.1   483.1   509.2   595.9
Total southbound
and northbound      492.1   517.8   563.8   604.4   657.3   704.0   747.7   868.5
Service & ballast    12.0    11.0    14.0    15.0    15.0    16.0    13.0    14.0
Total including
service & ballast   504.1   528.8   577.8   619.4   672.3   720.0   760.7   882.5
1/ Preliminary actual data.



ANNEX 6
Table 4
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
bouaxé-1etionara-Tafiré Traffic Previsions
----------------Freight Traffic (Tons '000)  -------------------
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982                    1985
Southbound
Livestock        23.0   25.0   27.0   30.0   35.0   37.0   39.0                    44.0
Cotton          30.0   34.0   37.5   41.0   44.0   47.0   51.0                     60.0
Oil seeds      120.0  102.0  105.0  107.0  110.0  112.0  115.0                    125.0
Sugar           14.0   24.0   32.0   44.0   56.0   76.0   92.0                    120.0
Logs               -      -      -       -      -      -       -
Molasses          3.0    4.0    6.0   10.0   19.0   25.0   30.0                    40.0
Miscellaneous   13.4   15.0   14.5   14.3   14.3   14.6   14.9                     15.6
Total          203.4  204.0  222.0  246.3  278.3  311.6  341.9                    404.6
Northbound
Petroleum
products      108.0  120.0  133.0  147.0  160.0  171.0  183.0                    223.0
Cement          60.6   77.9   95.0  108.5  121.9  134.7  147.5                    184.8
Metal products  23.5   25.0   27.0   29.0   30.0   31.0   32.0                     35.0
Fertilizer      30.0   32.2   35.2   39.0   42.8   46.5   48.7                     56.25
Food and
beverage       91.0   89.0   89.0   89.0   89.0   89.0   89.0                     89.0
Miscellaneous   55.0   57.0   58.0   61.0   63.0   65.0   67.0                     74.0
Total          368.2  401.1  437.2  473.5  506.7  537.2  567.2                    662.1
GRAND TOTAL     571.6  605.1  659.2  719.8  785.0  848.8  909.1                  1,066.7



ANNEX 6
Table 5
RAN
First Railway Project
Mali Traffic Carried by RAN
('000 tons)
1973      1974       1975
Northbound:
via Ouangalodougou
Foodstuff                            20.0       32.1        7.9
Cement                                2.4         -         6.0
Other                                11.2        0.7        1.2
Total                                33.6       32.8       15.1
via Bobo-Dioulasso
Petroleum products                    4.0        7.8        1.1
Foodstuff                            11.4        9.2         -
Other                                  -         1.2         -
Total                                15.4       18.2        1.1
Total Northbound
49.0      51.0       16.2
Southbound (cotton):
via Ouangalodougou                         4.5       4.0        4.7
via Bobo-Dioulasso                       21.0       21.0         -
Total Southbound                         25.5       25.0        4.7
Grand Total
Total Mali Traffic through Abidjan           205        239        242
RAN's Share of Total Traffic                 36%        32%        9%



ANNEX 6
Table 6
RAN
First Railway Project
Comparison of Transport Tariffs - Road vs. Rail (in CFAF)
Abidjan-Ouangolodougou
Transhipment
RAN       .Cost 1/      Road    Difference
Cement                             5205        557.5        8181       2418.5
Cereals northbound                 6610         557.5       8181       1013.5
Miscellaneous commodities          8088         557.5        8181     _(464.5)
Fertilizer                         6124         557.5       8181       1499.5
Cotton fibers                      6128        557.5        5575      (1110.5)
Groundnuts                         4780        557.5        3400      (1937.5)
1/   "Office National des Transports", Mali, July 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 7
OFFICIAL ROAD TRANSPORT TARIFFS
IN THE IVORY COAST (10/23/76)
Units           Minimum Tariff        Maximum Tariff
(CFAF)                (CFAF)
Category A
Cement                              t-km                   10                   13
C-.egory B
Coffee, cocoa                       t-km                                        17
Cargo (volume)                    m3-km                     7                   12
Cargo (weight)                      t-km                   16                   19
M5iscellaneous                      t-km                   19                   22
Empty containers/cartons            t-km                   12                   15
Category C
Chemicals & explosives              t-km                   30                   37
Category D                                                           Tariff
Petroleum products:
-  first 300 km                100 liter-km                          2.4 1/
-  above 300 km                100 liter-km                          2.16?!
-  city delivery               100 liter                            81
Category E
Timber for export:
-  first 200 km                     t-km                            19.2
-  between 200 and 500 km           t-km                            16
-  above 500 km                     t-km                            14.5
Timber for local industry           t-km                      90% of above tariffs
1/  Approximately CFAF 30/ton-km.
2/ Approximately CFAF 27/ton-km.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
REGIE ABIDJAN-NIGER
Forecast Disbursements for Investment
(including contingencies)
1977-1982
(CFAF Million)
Government
Investment Categories                1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  Total  contribution
for financing (%)
A. Infrastructure-Civil Works
1.  General studies                   180   160   170    60    60    60   690            -
2.  Feasibility studies   1/           32    34    47                       113          -
3.  Re-arrangement and extension
of railway maintenance
facilities and marshalling
yards    2/                                   200   600   600   600  2000   app. 30
4.  Rail access to Locodjo port
extension   3/                     36   344   344   688   688          2100        100
5.  Abidjan-Anyama double
track  4/                          25  1130  1130                      2285        100
6.  Other track doubling between
Anyama and Bouake  2/                                750   750  1500  3000         100
7.  Realignment Dimbokro-Bouake
5/                           1334                                   1334         60
8.  Double subgrade Dimbokro-
Bouake  5/                        600   150  1860                       750        100
9.  Realignment Bouake-Petionara
1/                            1200  2260  1865   430                 5755         60
10.  Re-alignment Petionara-Tafire
2/                                                      1930  1930  3860          60
11. Infrastructure and superstruc-
ture rehabilitation
(i) works in Upper Volta  1/    387   714   279   150    -         -   1530         60
(îi) track material renewal in
the Ivory Coast  1/          110   117   135    44    -        -    406         60
(iii) replacement of 22 bridges
in Upper Volta  4/           200   200   100                        500         60
(iv) renewal of 50 km of track
in Upper Volta                                         675   675  1350          60
12.  Routine renewal and rehabilita-
tion works - Miscellaneous  6/  465   435   410   480   580   580  2950             60
Sub-total A                    4569  5544  4680  3202  5283  5345 28623



ANN»X 7
Page 2
Government
Investment Categories                   1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  Total  contribution
for financing(%>
B. Management - Consulting Services
Training  1/                           90   520   205    42                   857
C. Fixed Installations - Buildings-
Houses
1.  Telecommunications - Signalling   470   110   110   110    60    50   910                60
2.  Buildings                            250   300   300   300   300   300  1750
Sub-total C                        720   410   410   410   360   350  2660
D. Equipment - Tools - Road Vehicles
1.  Track maintenance equipment  1/   123   130   181                            434          60
2.  Tools & Other equipment              120   120   120   150   150   150   810
Sub-total D                        243   250   301   150   150   150  1244
E. Motive Power
1. Mainline locomotives
1.1  5 locomotives  5/  7/           914                                     914
1.2  18 locomotives    1/            660  1530   858   566                  3614
1.3  Others                                                     440   440   880
2. Railcars
2.1  6 railcars  5/                  822   682                              1504
2.2 Others
- RGL  5/  7/                   268                                    268
- Renewal                                          400           400   800
3.  Shunters                                                        700   500  1200
Sub-total E                       2664  2212   858   966  1140  1340  9180
F. Rolling Stock
1. Passenger coaches and baggage vans
1.1  On order  5/  7/               1610  1311                              2921
1.2  Others                          -      -     200   400   200   200  1000



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Government
Investment Categories                  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  Total  contribution
for financ:n&1(%
2. Box-Cars
2.1  First phase (210)   1/         710   730   915   402                 2757
2.2  Second phase (130)                                      1000  1000  2000
3.  Others                                      30   120   120   120   120   510
Sub-total F                      2320  2071  1235   922  1320  1320  9188
S U M M A R Y
A.  Infrastructure                     4569  5544  4680  3202  5283  5°45 28623
B.  Management - Consulting Services
Training                             90   520   205    42                  857
C.  Fixed Installations - Buildings
Bouses                              720   410   410   410   360   350  2660
D.  Equipment - Tools -
Road Vehieles                       243   250   301   150   150   150  1244
E.  Motive Power                       2664  2212   858   966  1140  1340  9180
F.  Rolling Stock                      2320  2071  1235   922  1320  1320  9188
TOTAL                         10606 11007  7689  5692  8253  8505 51752
1/   Items included in the Regional Railway Project.
2/   Subject to the findings of feasibility Studies included in the Project.
3/   Subject to implementation of port extension and Tambao Manganese Project.
4/   Subject to the expected availability of financing from the German Government (Item 5)
or from FED (Item 11 - iii).
5/   Contracts already awarded, works underway or equipment being manufactured or
partly delivered.
6/   This item includes routine renewal and rehabilitation works such as:
(i) annual replacement of 30 turnouts;
(ii) annual renewal of 5 km of track with reballasting;
(iii) annual complementary ballasting;
(iv) heavy bridge repairs;
(v) annual renewal of sleepers on 20 km in Upper Volta.
7/   Remainder to be paid in the years shown.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Determination of Freight Car Needs, 1977-1985
1.        The determination of the need for additional freight cars is
detailed in the attached tables and is based on the following assumptions:
(1) gradual scrapping of the obsolete freight cars, namely,
--   119 cattle wagons; and
--   143 box cars;
(2) slight attrition due to accidents or obsolescence of
some remaining cars;
(3) average payload, a function of the size of the freight cars
and based on actual average loads recorded;
(4) availability factor constant (96% for not-too-old cars,
92% for old cars);
(5) turnaround time, a function of the utilization and calculated
from actual figures for one-way traffic (time elapsed between
two successive northbound or southbound loadings);
(6) slight improvement of the turnaround time as a result of
improvement of the operational efficiency; and
(7) traffic demand forecasts deduced from the general
traffic forecasts made by the mission, by allocating to
the freight cars of each type, the volume of the commo-
dities they usually carry according to RAN's data.
2.        The mission analyzed the possible need for additional gondolas and
flat cars. The conclusion was that, provided there is an improvement in their
utilization, which has been agreed upon by RAN's management as quite feasible,
there is no need for new freight cars of these types. This is subject to
review in case of unexpected development of the traffic. Therefore, only
the need for cattle wagons, box cars and tank cars is assessed in the
attached tables.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Methodology
3.        The following methodology has been applied for the determination
of the needs.
Box Cars
(i) Determination of the needs of cattle wagons first,
since the multipurpose wagons, which are used for both
cattle traffic and general cargo, have a different
turnaround time according to their utilization (either
general cargo only or mixed traffic--southbound cattle
and northbound cargo), Table 1;
(ii) determination of the additional box-cars needed taking
into account the volume carried by the multipurpose
wagons used for southbound cattle traffic, on the
northbound return trip to the cattle loading areas.
It must be noted that all the new box-cars are
supposed to be of the multipurpose type, Table 2;
(iii)  verification of the capacity of the fleet for the
southbound traffic, Table 3; and
(iv)  calculation of the productivity of the new freight
cars in terms of ton-km, Table 4 gives a summary of
the utilization of the new box cars (or multipurpose
wagons).
Tank Cars
4.        The calculation of the total number of additional tank cars needed
is shown in Table 5. It must be pointed out that the assumed turnaround
times represent a substantial improvement as compared with actual turnaround
times of the recent past. This improvement can be achieved by both the in-
crease of the RAN's operational efficiency (block trains) and a better orga-
nization of the loading and unloading facilities by the petroleum companies.
However for the evaluation of the needs, conservative figures have
been retained for this factor (see footnote 1).
Conclusions
5.        The following conclusions can be drawn from the attached tables:
(i)  There is an urgent need for 60 box cars to be delivered,
if possible, early in 1978; and
(ii)  in spite of the fact that scrapping of old box cars has
been delayed till 1979, there will probably be a lack of
transport capacity in 1977 (28,000 tons), if all factors



ANNEX 8
Page 3
remain constant.  If the traffic forecasts made materialize
in 1978, the additional capacity requirement will be covered
by the 60 new box cars referred to above.
(iii)  the number of the tank-cars needed is in accordance
with the planned procurement of new tank-cars by the
petroleum companies (10 in 1977; 14 in 1978; 8 in 1979;
and 9 in 1980 - total:  41 in four years).



ANNEX b
Table 1
IVORY COAST - UPPER VCLTA - REGIONAL RAILJ:AY PROJECT
CATTLE WAGONS
Needs and Utilization
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1985
1) Traffic Forecast (1000 T)               25      27      30     35      37      39      44
Transport Capacity of Existing
Cattle Wagons
(i) 30-ton wagons
a) number                           16      16      16      16      16     15      14
b) turnaround time (days)           12      il      10       9       9       9       9
c) availability (%)                 96      96      96      96      96     96      96
d) average payload (T)               8       8       8       8       8       8      8
2) Transport Capacity 1/ (1000 T)          3.7    4.1    4.5    5.0    5.0    4.7    4.4
(ii) 35-ton multipurpose wagons
a) number                           70      70      70      70      70     68      66
b) turnaround time (days)           18      17      16      15      15      15     15
c) availability (%)                 96      96      96      96      96     96      96
d) average payload (T)              9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5
3) Transport Capacity 1/ (1000 T)         12.9   13.7   14.6   15.5   15.5   15.1   14.6
(iii) 20-ton wagons (to be written off)
a) number                           80      60      30       0
b) turnaround time (days)           12      il      10
c) availability (%)                 92      92      92
d) average payload (T)              5.3    5.3    5.3
4) Transport capacity 1/  (1000 T)    11.9    9.7    5.3            0
5) Total transport capacity of
existing wagons  2/  (1000 T)          28.5   27.5   24.4   20.5   20.5   19.8   19.0
6) Excess (lack) of capacity of
existing wagons (1000 T)                3.5    0.5   (5.6) (14.5) (16.5) (19.2) (25)
7) Additional 35-ton multipurpose
wagons needed    3/                     -      -       27      65      74      87    113
8) Ton-kilometers produced by the
new wagons (million) 5/                 -      -       4.7    9.9   13.9   16.1   21.0
9) Existing 35-ton multipurpose wagons
utilized for cattle traffic  4/         51     67      70      70      70     68      66
1/    (a)   x  365  x (c) x (d) x  i
1000      (b)                  100
2/ (5) = (2) + (3) + (4)
3/  - (6) x 1000 x (b) x    100        if (6) < 0
365   (c) x (d)
4/ [(3) - (6) x 1000 x (b) x        100      if (6)    0;  (a), if (6) < O
365    (c) x(d)
5/ - (6) x 840 (average distance), if (6) < 0
1000



ANNEX 8
Table 2
page 1
IVORY COAST - UPPER VOLTA - REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
BOX CARS
Needs and Utilization
Northbound Traffic                 1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1985
1) Traffic Forecast (1000 T)            3441/  380    402    429    456    481    558
Existing Ordinary Box Cars
2) Number of ordinary cars              456    452    432    368    328    310    302
3) Total capacity (T)                 14893  14773  14173  12253  10933  10473  10233
4) Turnaround time (days)  2/             12     il      10       9.5    9.5    9       9
5) Availability (%)                       96     96      96     96      96      96     96
6) Transport capacity of existing
box cars (1000 T)                    278    301    318    289    258    261    255
(3) x 22.4 x 365 x (5)
1000    35    (4)   100
7) Excess (Lack) of capacity             (66)   (79)   (84)  (140)  (198)  (220)  (303)
(7) -= (6) - (1)    (1000 T)
Existing Multipurpose Wagons
8) Number of cars                         70     70      70      70     70      68     66
9) Total capacity (T)                  2450   2450   2450   2450   2450   2380   2310
10) Turnaround time (days)   2/            16     17      16      15     15      15     15
11) Availability (%)                       96     96      96     96      96      96     96
12) Transport capacity of existing
multipurpose wagons (1000 T)           38     36      38     41      41      40     39
(9) x 25 x 365 x Ç
1000  35  (10)   100
New Multipurpose Wagons Utilized
for Mixed Transport (Cattle and
various Northbound Traffic)
13) Number of cars                         -      -       27      65     74      87    113
14) Turnaround time (days)  2/             _      _       16      15     15      15      15
15) Availability (%)                       -      -       96      96     96      96      96
1/  Forecast based on demand; realized traffic expected to be somewhat lower due to box cars
capacity constraint.
2/  Turnaround time defined as time elansed between 2 conrecutive northboun' loadings.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
Page 2
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1985
16) Average payload (T)                    -      -       25      25     25      25      25
17) Transport capacity of new
multipurpose wagons (1000 T)           -      -       15     38      43      51     66
(13) x 365 x (15) x (16)
1000   (14)    100
18) Net excess (Lack) of capacity for
new ordinary box cars                 (28)   (43)   (31)   (61)  (114)  (129)  (198)
(7) +(12) +(17)    (1000 T)
19) Additional new box cars needed
-(18) x 1000 x (4)  x  100            43      60      39     74    138    148    227
365    (5) x 22.4
if (18) < O
20) Total new box cars needed
(13) + (19)                          43      60     66    139    212    235    340
21) Average distance (km)                 650    650    650    650    650    650    650
22) Tonnage (to be carried) carried by
New wagons      (1000 T)              (28)    43      46     99    157    180    264
(17) - (18)
if    (18) < 0
23) Ton-kilometers (to be produced)
produced by the new wagons (million)
(22)   x  (21)                      (18.2)  28.0   29.9   64.3  102.1  117    171.6
1000



ANNEX 8
Table 3
IVORY COAST - UPPER VOLTA - REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
BOX CARS
Needs and Utilization
Southbound Traffic                1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1985
General Cargo
1) Traffic Forecast (1000 T)             217    232    250    269    295    318    367
Existing Ordinary Box Cars
2) Number of cars                        456    452    432    368    328    310    302
3) Total capacity (T)                  14893  14773  14173  12253  10933  10473  10233
4) Turnaround time (days)                 12      il      10       9.5    9.5    9        9
5) Availability (%)                       96      96      96      96     96      96      96
6) Transport capacity of the existing
ordinary box cars   (1000 T)          220    238    251    228    204    206    201
(3) x 16.45 x 365 x (5)
1000    32.65    (4)    100
7) Excess (lack) of capacity (1000 T)   3          6       1    (41)   (91)  (112)  (166)
(6) - (1)
New box cars available for south-
bound general cargo
8) Number of new box cars available
for southbound traffic                 -       60     39      74    138    148    227
9) Transport capacity (1000 T)
(8)  x  35   x 365 x  (5) x 16.45  -         34      24      48     90    102    156
1000  32.55    (4)    100
10) Net excess (lack) of capacity
(1000 T)                         3      40      25      7      (1)   (10)   (10)
(7) + (9)
11) Utilized capacity (%)
(1)     if (10) >.  O             99      85      91     97    100    100    100
(6) + (9)
100% if (10) 1 
12) Average distance (km)                 671    665    648    651    637    633    621
13) Utilized capacity in ton-kilometers
(million)
(9) x (11)  x (12)  x  1              -       19.2   14.2   30.3   57.3   64.6   96.9
100             1000



ANNEX 8
Table 4
IVORY COAST - UPPER VOLTA - REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary of Utilization of the New Freight Cars
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1985
1) New freight cars - average
available number for the year
shown                                         60      66    139    212    235    340
2) Number to be ordered in year           60    150      -      130     -       -
shown                           (early 77)
3) Expected delivery                             60      80      70     25      75      30  (1983)
4) Ton-kilometers produced by new
cars included in the project 1/
(i)  a) cattle traffic                -       -        4.7    9.9   13.8   14.4   13.0
b) return traffic (N)
of cattle wagons              -      -        9.8   24.7   27.8   29.7   26.5
(ii) General cargo       (N)           -       28.0   20.1   39.6   73.3   74.9   79.5
(S)          -       19.2   14.2   30.3   56.8   57.7   59.9
5) Ton-lilometers produced by the
additional freight cars (130) 1/
(i)  a) cattle traffic                -       -       -      -        0.1    1.7    8.0
b) return traffic (N)
of cattle wagons              -      -       -       -       0.2    3.5   16.4
(ii)  General cargo       (N)          -       -       -      -        0.8    8.9   49.2
(S)          -       -       -      -        0.5    6.9   37.0
1/   Million of Ton-Kilometers



Table 5
IVORY COAST - UPPER VOLTA - REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
TANK CARS
Needs and Utilization
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1985
1) Traffic Forecast (1000 T)             130    143    157    170    181    193    233
Existing tank cars
a) Number                             134    134    134    133    132    131    130
b) Turnaround time (days) 1/           12     12      12     11.5   il       10      9
c) Load factor: 0.93
d) Availability: 0.96
d) Average unit capacity (T)           33.3   33.3   33.3   33.3   33.3   33.4   33.4
2) Transport capacity of existing
cars (1000 T)                        121    121    121    126    130    143    157
(a) x 365 x (c) x (d) x (e)
1000    (b)
3) Excess (Lack) of capacity
(2) - (1)   (1000 T)                   (9)   (22)   (36)   (46)   (51)   (60)   (76)
4) New tank cars needed    2/
- (3) x 1000 x (b)  x         1         8     20      33     41      43     46      52
365    (c)x(d)x 40
if (3)< 0
5) Ton-kilometers (million) produced
by 41 new tank-cars to be
delivered between 1977-1980
Average distance: 865 km                7.8   19.0   31.1   39,8   42.1   46.3   51.8
1/  The figures utilized for the assessement of the needs are different from the
figures given in the operational plan of action as targets for the turnaround time
of tank-cars. These latter figures reflect the forecast turnaround time as
expected by RAN's Operations Departirent following the planned transport scheme
for petroleum products between Abidjan and Ouagadougou (block trains). As the
results are highly sensitive to the turnaround time, which applies to the whole
fleet, it is advisable to take a less optimistic approach in the evaluation of
the needs.
2/ 40-ton tank-cars.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Mainline Locomotive Needs in 1980
1.        The evaluation of the number of new locomotives needed in RAN's
mainline locomotive fleet is based on the following assumptions:
(i) The recommendations of the mission regarding the
scrapping of the 5 CC 2400 locomotives and the gradual
withdrawal from long distance service of the 26 CC 1000
and CC 1500 locomotives by 1980 will be implemented;
(ii) the profile characteristics are assumed uniform and the
average maximum load of the mainline locomotives in
service in 1980 will be 1,000 gross tons. A correction
will be applied to take into account the necessary
double-headings where the line will not present the
uniform characteristics in 1980 (presumably ABIDJAN-
LE BANCO and PETIONARA-TAFIRE sections);
(iii) for the present calculation, an average practical load
per locomotive of 750 gross tons will be taken (75% of
the average maximum load) which is probably a rather
conservative hypothesis;
(iv) the ratio gross tonnage/net tonnage for the freight
traffic is kept at its present average value of 2.20;
(v) an overall utilization factor of 67%, which combines an
80% technical availability of the locomotives with an 85%
utilization factor of the available motive power by the
Operations Department, has been estimated as achieveable;
(vi) the service traffic will be hauled by old mainline loco-
motives withdrawn from long distance service;
(vii) all mainline locomotives will have a net power output
that is superior or equal to the actual net power output
of the existing B-BB 1800 locomotive; and
(viii) a tentative traffic pattern appropriate to the traffic
demand of 1980 has been set-up, the present time table
being taken as a model. This pattern includes the
following daily freight trains:



ANNEX 9
Page 2
1 block train ABIDJAN-OUAGADOUGOU-ABIDJAN:
1 train ABIDJAN-BOBO DIOULASSO-OUAGADOUGOU and
return;
1 train ABIDJAN-BOUAKE-DIMBOKRO;
1 train DIMBOKRO-FERKESSEDOUGOU;
--   1 train FERKESSEDOUGOU-ABIDJAN;
--   1 train ABIDJAN-FERKESSEDOUGOU and return; and
--   2 mixed trains ABIDJAN-DIMBOKRO and return (300
gross tons of commercial freight).
2.        On the basis of the freight traffic pattern defined above, allowing
some time for the routine maintenance to be performed at the ABIDJAN running
shed and adding to the freight traffic pattern one daily express train
ABIDJAN-OUAGADOUGOU-ABIDJAN, it is estimated that 21 active mainline loco-
motives are necessary to haul the trains included in the pattern. Additionally,
3 locomotives are necessary for the double-headings needed where the profile
characteristics will still exceed the traction capacity of one single loco-
motive. It makes a total of 24 active locomotives needed by 1980.
3.        To these 24 active locomotives, 3 locomotives must be added as
stand-by locomotives in the running sheds of the line. This is needed be-
cause of the long distance between ABIDJAN, where the main running shed is
located, and the other end of the system (OUAGADOUGOU), and because, in case
of accident or breakdown, spare locomotives must be stationed in well selected
places along the line.
4.        The total number of mainline locomotives needed can, therefore, be
estimated at:
1   x (21+3+3) = 40 locomotives.
0.67
As RAN's fleet will count in 1977, 22 B-BB 1800 locomotives, the number of
additional locomotives to be procured is 18.
5.        The total theoretical annual capacity for freight traffic, in terms
of ton-kilometers, on the basis of the traffic pattern described above and
with an average load of 750 gross tons per locomotives, is of the order of
magnitude of 2 billion gross ton-kilometers or about 910 million net ton-
kilometers.
6.        As a check, with the figures of the freight traffic forecasts (Annex
6), the capacity needed for 1980 would be 657 million net ton-kilometers, of



ANNEX 9
Page 3
which 454 million of northbound traffic. The northbound transport annual
capacity, assuming a 75% load of the locomotives would be:
Gross ton-km (Million)
--   2 Daily Trains Abidjan-Ouagadougou        2 x 750 x 1145 x 365 =  626.9
--   1 Daily Train Abidjan-Bouake              1 x 750 x  315 x 365 =   86.2
1 Daily Train Dimbokro-Ferkessedougou   1 x 750 x  376 x 365 =  102.9
1 Daily Train Abidjan-Ferkessedougou    1 x 750 x  558 x 365 =  152.8
2 Daily Trains Abidjan-Dimbokro          2 x 300 x  182 x 365 =   39.9
Total          1,008.7
or 1,008.7: 2.20 = 458.5 million ton-kilometers net. This meets the
capacity needs quoted above.
7.        The total mileage of the mainline locomotives to be travelled to haul
the passenger and freight trains in 1980 will be of the order of magnitude
of 3,950,000 km, double-headed trains included. This represents about 95,000
km per B-BB 1800 locomotive-year in the fleet or 7,900 km per B-BB 1800 loco-
motive-month in the fleet. These figures are quite reasonable and are neither
too demanding nor too low.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
IVORY COAST - UPPER VOLTA
Regional Railway Project
I. Marshalling Yard Study
FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR THE MODIFICATIONS OF THE TREICHVILLE
MARSHALLING YARD AND ROLLING STOCK MAINTENANCE FACILITIES
Terms of Reference
A.   General Information
1.        RAN's rolling stock maintenance facilities located in the Treich-
ville marshalling yard must be transferred as soon as possible. The dust
coming from the cement grinding plants located southwest in the immediate
vicinity of these maintenance facilities is harmful to the rolling stock
and creates inappropriate working conditions for the personnel assigned to
this maintenance unit.
2.        The transfer of these maintenance facilities to the northwestern
part of the Treichville marshalling yard had been envisaged to correct this
situation, while keeping them close to the starting station of the trains.
This solution would deprive the RAN of marshalling facilities which are needed
to serve the port zone of Abidjan and the existing industrial and transit
areas, where substantial traffic and commercial development is expected within
the next few years. Furthermore, this would make the use of these facilities
for expected suburban passenger traffic rather difficult or even impossible.
3.        In the long run, a large railway complex is planned for Abobo.  This
complex will include a marshalling yard appropriate to the future traffic and
will fit into the plans for the extension of the port of Abidjan and its
industrial areas.
4.        However, in the short and medium term, the marhsalling yard of
Treichville will continue to serve existing port facilities, which will be
extended, and the industrial and commercial areas which are connected to the
port and the railway.
5.        Even when the new marshalling facilities are completed at Abobo, for
practical operational reasons RAN will still need, in the Treichville area,
marshalling facilities to sort or make up the passenger and freight trains.
For this latter traffic, specifically, it would be inappropriate and rather
expensive to marshal completely the freight cars carrying cargo which is bound
for or coming from the existing port and industrial areas, which will stand in
the future, in the sole marshalling yard of Abobo located at about 16 km from
the center of those activities.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
6.        To conclude, a master plan needs to be established for a new
arrangement of the rolling stock maintenance facilities and the marshalling
facilities of the Abidjan area, taking into account the present constraints,
the short- and medium-term needs and the planned, long-term development.
This master plan, of which the re-arrangement and possible extension of the
Treichville marshalling yard is the main part, is the subject of a feasibility
study for which the following terms of reference provide guidelines.
B.   Objectives
7.        The objectives of the feasibility study are:
(i) determine the capacity of the rolling stock main-
tenance facilities necessary to meet the expected
needs in 1990 for passenger and freight vehicles;
(ii) determine the most suitable location for the recon-
struction of the rolling stock maintenance facili-
ties, as a function of the areas that could possibly
be freed to establish these facilities and of the
condition of their utilization in relation with the
train starting points and the workshops of the rail-
way;
(iii) draft a general lay-out for these new maintenance
facilities;
(iv) determine the capacity for the railway terminal and
transit facilities of the Treichville station needed
to accommodate the expected traffic increase in 1980
and 1990, bound to or coming from the port and
industrial areas, taking into account the planned
extension of the latter facilities, and to accommo-
date the passenger traffic expected for 1980 and
1990;
(v) draft a general lay-out for the re-arrangement and
possible extension of the tracks at Treichville
marshalling yard and passenger station, in order
to obtain the needed capacity in these facilities;
(vi) establish a tentative schedule for the works;
(vii) prepare draft terms of reference for the final engi-
neering studies, with a time table and cost estimates
for these studies;
(viii) prepare cost estimates (without taxes) for the works,
quoting separately the foreign exchange costs and
local costs; and



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(ix)  evaluate the project in both economic and finan-
cial terms.
C.   Scope of the Work
8.        The consultant shall perform all technical studies, economic and
financial analyses, field investigations and related work as herein described
to achieve the objectives set forth in Part B above and produce all the infor-
mation required to justify the proposed project. The consultants shall base
their work mainly on information supplied by the railway. They shall, how-
ever, be solely responsible for the verification, analysis and interpretation
*of all data received and for their findings and recommendations.
Technical Studies
(a) Capacity of the Rolling Stock Maintenance Facilities
9.        On the basis of the traffic forecasts for 1990, which will be pro-
vided by RAN, and of the definition and frequency of the maintenance opera-
tions, the daily volume in terms of numbers of vehicles to be treated in
the various parts of the maintenance facilities will be determined. These
-data will be the major input for the evaluation of the capacity needed for
the new technical facilities.
(b) Geographical Location
10.       The places where the new maintenance facilities could possibly be
rebuilt will be thoroughly inspected and their respective merits and disad-
vantages evaluated in regard to:
(i) the areas that could possibly be freed in the railway
premises;
(ii) the urban development plans for the city of Abidjan
and adjacent areas;
(iii) the rail connections between the new facilities,
the starting points of the trains and the railway
workshops and the railway operations on these con-
nections;
(iv) the likely passenger train schedule devised to cope
with the expected traffic in 1990 and the volume of
freight rolling stock to be treated in these facili-
ties by 1990; and
(v) the volume of works needed to restore a sufficient
capacity for the facilities that have been removed
or modified in order to provide space for the new
rolling stock maintenance facilities.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
(c) Draft General Lay-out of the New Rolling Stock
Maintenance Facilities
il.       The proposed draft general lay-out will be established taking into
consideration:
(i) the available space, with room for future expansion,
without drafting this extension however;
(ii) the necessity of maintaining a sufficient operational
capacity for the Treichville station, specifically
for what concerns the reception, marshalling and dis-
patching of freight trains coming from or bound to
the line and the areas presently served by this
Treichville station, in the short- and medium-term;
(iii) the possible extension of the activities in the
Treichville station for what concerns the passenger
traffic; and
(iv) the necessary equilibrium to be maintained between
the capital outlay for constructions, the needs and
RAN's financial possibilities.
12.       The draft general lay-out will include a description of the works,
as detailed as possible, a situation map (Scale: 1/10,000) and a general
drawing of the proposed new maintenance facilities (Scale: 1/1,000).
(d)  Draft General Lay-out for the Re-arrangement
of the Existing Facilities
13.       The draft general lay-out for the re-arrangement of the existing
facilities to provide space for the new rolling stock maintenance facilities
will determine the works to be executed for:  (i) restoring a sufficient
capacity for the modified facilities at the forecast level of activity in
the short-term (1980) and, (ii) providing room for a possible extension
of the said facilities to meet the medium-term needs (1990). If the place
selected is, for example, the site presently allocated to the "Parc VB,"
the works planned for the re-arrangement of the railway facilities will
include the restoration of the VB facilities with a sufficient operational
capacity and the re-arrangement and extension of the passenger station
tracks and of the sets of sidings of the marshalling yard of Treichville,
taking over the space becoming available after removal of the existing roll-
ing stock maintenance facilities.
Note:     The remark of paragraph 11 (iv) is also applicable for the study
of this general lay-out.
14.       In all cases, the consultants will prepare a description of the
works, as detailed as possible, with a general drawing of the re-arrangement
(Scale: 1/1,000) and of the possible extension of existing facilities.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
15.       Finally, the capacity of the marshalling facilities will be deter-
mined in accordance with the guidelines spelled out in the note attached to
the present Terms of Reference.
(e) Tentative Execution Schedule
16.       The feasibility study will comprise a tentative execution sched-
ule for the construction of the new maintenance facilities and for the re-
arrangement and the possible extension of the existing facilities. This
schedule will detail the successive phases of the works as to:
(i)  allow the continuity of efficient railway operations
during the modifications in the traffic conditions
prevailing at the time of execution; and
(ii)  provide room for the necessary extensions to cope
with the increased volumes of activity as forecast
in the short- and medium-term.
(f)  Final Engineering Studies
17.       The consultants will establish draft terms of reference for the
final engineering studies which will include the preparation of the bidding
documents for the execution of the proposqd project with cost estimates for
the works (without taxes) quoting separately the foreign exchange costs
and the local costs. These terms of reference will allow a possible divi-
sion of the final engineering studies into several parts which could be
awarded to different organizations or specialized services.
18.       The consultants will establish detailed cost estimates of the
final engineering studies and a time-table for their execution. The final
engineering studies which will follow the feasibility study will deal with:
(i)  the earthworks and drainage works;
(ii)  the buildings, technical facilities and util-
ities both for the Treichville marshalling yard
and the rolling stock maintenance facilities;
(iii)  the equipment and machinery for the passenger
coach cleaning;
(iv)  the facilities for routine maintenance and diesel
oil and sand distribution for the shunting engines;
(v)  the water supply and fire protection network;
(vi)  the telephone network;
(vii)  the electric power supply and distribution network;



ANNEX 10
Page 6
(viii) the sewerage network;
(ix)  the lighting in the workshops and work areas;
(x)  the rail connections of the rolling stock mainte-
nance facilities;
(xi)  the sets of tracks for the storage of stand-by
passenger rolling stock;
(xii)  the service roads serving the various facilities
and their connection to the general public road
system; 
(xiii)  the track sets of the passenger station and of the
marshalling yard of Treichville;
(xiv)  the modifications to be executed to the electric power,
lighting, water supply, sewerage, compressed air and
vacuum networks in the Treichville station;
(xv)  the signalling; and
(xvi)  the fixed installations (weigh-bridge, cranes, areas
and machinery for conteiner handling, end-loading
platforms, etc.).
The final engineering studies will include all the bidding documents, except
for the supplies or works to be provided by RAN (track material and stone
ballast, etc.).
(g) Economic and Financial Analysis
19.       For each variant solution envisaged, the consultants will calculate
the total construction cost and will establish a disbursement schedule detail-
ing the disbursements relating to each phase of execution. For the economic
and financial evaluation of the project, the following elements will be taken
into consideration:
(i) the estimated operating costs by traffic unit as
compared with the present operating costs;
(ii)  the savings on the passenger coach maintenance
costs, including the estimated cost of immobili-
zation of the vehicles;
(iii)  the additional costs to the Ivorian and Upper
Voltan economies which would result from the
diversion of rail traffic to road, if the capac-
ity of the Treichville marshalling facilities



ANNEX 10
Page 7
were insufficient to cope with the traffic demand,
assuming that the re-arrangement and/or the exten-
sion of these facilities would not be executed.
20.       The consultants will, for the year following immediately the com-
pletion of the project and for the year 1985, evaluate the impact of the
proposed project on RAN's financial situation as it appears in its Income
Accounts and Balance Sheets, comparing the situation "with" and "without"
re-arrangement and extension of the Treichville marshalling facilities.
All the assumptions made will be explicitly stated.
D.   Information and Services Provided by RAN
21.       RAN will provide to the consultant all the available data relating
to the project. This information will include, inter alia:
-    updated traffic forecasts;
-    the origin/destination and volume of the different
categories of present traffic, separately
by area connected to the Treichville station;
-    the peak period for e4ch category of present
traffic, with indication of the volume, the time
period and the variations;
-    the length and the actual composition of the trains,
with the characteristics of the utilized vehicles
per category of traffic and train type (railcars,
express trains, mixed trains, general cargo freight
trains, block trains, service trains, etc.);
-    the average load of the freight cars for each
category of cargo;
-    the turnaround time of the vehicles, for each type
and by utilization;
-    by type and utilization of the vehicles the average
number of vehicles staying in the various facilities,
with the average number of daily entries and the aver-
age stay in the said facilities, and indication of the
variations of these parameters;
-    the description of the signalling system in the
stations;



ANNEX 10
Page 8
the auxiliary facilities required according to RAN's
opinion and their forecast utilization in terms of
quantities, space needed, number of elements treated
daily, etc.;
the possible urban constraints; and
-    the conclusion of previous studies concerning the
rolling stock maintenance facilities and the planned
railway complex of Abobo.
22.       During their stay in Ivory Coast, RAN will provide the con-
sultants:
(a)  the needed administrative and secretarial services;
(b)  the required offices with furniture and equipment;
(c)  the necessary transport means (rail transport).
In their proposals, the consultants will determine exactly the required
.facilities and services referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
E.   Reports - Timing
23.       The consultants will prepare and submit the reports described below
in the said time limits:
(i)  a draft final report three months after the starting
date of the feasibility study, describing briefly the
methodology applied for determination of the capacity
of the various facilities envisaged and summarizing
all the work performed, the conclusions and recommenda-
tions of the consultants, including the maps, drawings,
estimates and diagrams concerning the proposed construc-
tion programs; and
(ii) a final report thirty days after reception by the
consultants of all the comments and remarks made
concerning the draft fiial report, the final report
including all amendments and appropriate corrections.
24.       All these reports will comprise a summary of the conclusions and
recommendations of the consultants. The draft final report will be sub-
mitted in  _ copies in French and _   copies in English.  The final report
will be submitted in -  copies in French and         copies in English.



ANNEX 10
Page 9
Attachment
CAPACITY OF TREICHVILLE MARSHALLING FACILITIES. 1980 AND 1990
1.        The marshalling yard capacity to be provided for in the Treichville
station for the years 1980 and 1990 will be determined as a function of the
following factors:
(i)  the traffic volumes in terms of average number of
vehicles per day coming in and going out the mar-
shalling facilities, with evaluation of the peak
variation;
(ii) the present average stay of the vehicles in the
sets of tracks and on the loading and unloading
sidings and the parking tracks;
(iii) the operational targets concerning the turnaround
of the vehicles and their average stay in the
various facilities, which would be.considered as
achievable by the consultants and would be agreed
upon by RAN's management;
(iv) the operating scheme to be proposed by the consul-
tants for the marshalling yard, taking into account
(a) the frequency, the optimal time spread between
and the length of the incoming and out-going trains
from and to the line; (b) the practical duration of
the marshalling operations and of the sorting of the
vehicles by origin or destination; and (c) the number
of sidings to be allocated at this sorting or at spe-
cial utilizations;
(v)  the frequency, the optimal spreading in time and the
length of the trains serving the port and industrial
zone;
(vi)  the circuit, the frequency, the optimal spreading in
time and the length of the trains coming from or going
to the rolling stock maintenance facilities or the
workshops; and
(vii) the availability and the optimal number of shunters
for the marshalling operations in the Treichville
station and its auxiliary facilities and for the
transfer of the rolling stock to and from the main-
tenance and repair facilities.



ANNEX 10
Page 10
Attachment
2.        The calculation of the required capacity will be based on and
justified by:
(i) the detailed description of the proposed operating
scheme and of the recommended allocation of the
tracks and sidings to the various utilizations;
(ii) the complete and explicit set of data and basic
assumptions used by the consultants;
(iii) the description of the methods used for the calcula-
tion; and
(iv) the brief description of the computer models possibly
used by the consultants for the execution of research
or calculations, (with an indication of the required input
data, the results to be obtained, and of the limitations
of these models).



ANNEX 10
Page 11
II. PETIONARA-TAFIRE FEASIBILITY STUDY
Abidjan Niger (RAN)
Petionara-Tafire Feasibility Study
Terms of Reference
A. BACKGROUND
1.        The construction of the RAN railway can be divided into two
distinct periods. During the first one, 1904-1927, the line was built
from Abidjan to Tafire (488 km).  It had low standard characteristics:
-    minimum curve radius:  170 m;
-    maximum gradient:  27.5 mm/m;
-    25-26 kg rails:  6 to 8 m long;
-    axle load limit; 10 tons; and
-    maximum speed:  40-50 kph for freight trains, and
50-80 kph for passenger trains.
During the second period, 1927-1954, the Tafire-Ouagadougou section was
built with improved characteristics:
-    minimum curve radius:  500 m;
-    maximum gradient:  10 mm/m;
-    30 kg rails;  10 to 12 m long;
-    axle load limit:  15 tons; and
-    maximum speed:  80 kph.
2.        To correct the severe characteristics of the profile of the first
section, some realignment works with the latter standards were executed before
1969 (Abidjan-Agboville: 80 km). Since 1969 the realignment projects have
been undertaken at a rate which is expected to be approximately 35 km per
year. These projects are:
1970-1972 Agboville-Dimbokro (105 km); and
1974-1977 Dimbokro-Bouake (new route = 134 km).



ANNEX 10
Page 12
3.        When this latter project is completed, nearly the whole system
will have the uniform new standards (mainly 500-m minimum curve radius
and 10 mm/m maximum gradient compensated for curves) except for the
Bouake-Tafire stretch which lies between the previously realigned
section Abidjan-Bouake and the Tafire-Ouagadougou section. However,
between Abidjan and Le Banco there are still very sharp curves and steep
slopes. This requires double-headed trains for loads above 500-700 tons.
In addition, there are numerous curves between Le Banco and Agboville
with radii shorter than 500 m. Widening works of the track subgrade with
a view of track doubling are contemplated between Abidjan and Anyama, start-
ing in October 1977, and thereafter, between Anyama and Agboville, the
gradient and curve characteristics of these sections being corrected at
the same time to meet RAN's standard characteristics. Only a slope of 13
mm/m gradient and a 400-m radius curve will remain on the 6 km section
linking Abidjan (Lagune) and Agban.
4.        All lines are meter-gauge and single-track, except for a section
of about 16 km between Cechi and Anoumaba which is double-track. Also,
the track subgrade of the Dimbokro-Bouake section, where realignment works
are presently ongoing, is capable of a double track.
5.        RAN's specifications for new track laying provide for:
(i) 36-kg per meter rail;
(ii) concrete sleepers with a density of 1,357 sleepers per km or
steel sleepers with a density of 1,500 sleepers per km; and
(iii) 1.0 to 1.2 m3 of stone ballast per meter.
These new specifications are reasonable for welded track with an axle load
of about 15 tons (locomotives) and traffic conditions prevailing in the
Ivory Coast during the next decade. RAN is now considering the possibility
of adopting wooden sleepers for the future track relaying in the Ivory Coast.
B.   OBJECTIVE
6.        By 1978 the on-going realignment works of the Dimbokro-Bouake
section will be completed. On the Bouake-Tafire section (172 km) the track
material needs renewal and the subgrade needs rehabilitation, all within
the next few years. RAN planned initially to rebuild 162 km of this section
on a new alignment with the uniform standards which provide substantial
savings in operating costs and travel time. The first part of the proposed
new route, Bouake-Petionara (89 km), is the optimum solution as determined
by extensive studies executed by RAN's civil works department. Thus, realign-
ment of this section is included in a project presently under consideration
and is expected to be completed by end-1979. Most of the then remaining



ANNEX 10
Page 13
83-km stretch Petionara-Tafire may need track renewal and subgrade rehabili-
tation shortly thereafter, and upgrading to the otherwise uniform standards
is being considered. Determination of a technically and economically optimal
solution for this stretch is the objective of this study.
C.   SCOPE OF WORK
7.        The consultants shall perform all technical studies, economic and
financial analyses, field investigations and related work as herein des-
cribed, and not already done by RAN, to achieve the objective set forth
above, including preparation of such provisional designs, drawings, con-
struction programs, cost estimates, notes on recommended operational pro-
cedures and all other information required to justify the recommended
project. The consultants shall base their work mainly on information
received from RAN. They will, however, be solely responsible for the veri-
fication and interpretation of all data received and for their findings and
recommendations. In their reports the consultants shall spell out clearly
all assumptions and hypotheses made. In case a computer model is used,
all model hypotheses shall be specified.
8.        In order to determine a technically and economically optimal solu-
tion for the proposed reconstruction of the Petionara-Tafire section, the
consultants shall analyze and compare several alternative alignments or
variants, the basis of the comparison being the reference case described
in para. 10 below. The alternative alignments or variants are quoted in
paras. 11 through 13 below.
Technical Studies
9.        The cost estimates prepared by the consultants shall be based on
1977 prices excluding taxes and including, but spelling out separately,
adequate physical and price contingencies. Local and foreign costs shall
be shown separately.
10.       Reference case:  The consultants shall estimate the work needed,
its optimal timing and the costs to rehabilitate the existing alignment
from Petionara to Tafire.  This rehabilitation shall not include any
modification of the geometric characteristics of the line. It shall include
all works, such as track renewal, reballasting, repair of subgrade, signal-
ling and telecommunications, needed to ensure satisfactory traffic safety
and sufficient transport capacity on Petionara-Tafire for the next ten
years.
il.       New alignment:  RAN has engineered a new alignment for the
Petionara-Tafire section, which would bring the line closer to the town
of Niakaramandougou. The consultants shall review RAN's engineering, in
particular the technical appropriateness of the proposed design versus the



ANNEX 10
Page 14
needs of the area served by the railway and the adequacy of RAN's cost
estimates. Should the consultants disagree with RAN's proposed design
route and characteristics, and cost estimates, they shall produce adequate
revisions.
12.       Upgrading of existing line:  The consultants shall determine and
estimate the costs of the least-cost solution to upgrade the line on or close
to the present alignment to RAN's new standards, i.e. a minimum curve radius
of 500 m and maximum gradients of 10 mm/m compensated. In doing so the
consultants may adopt geometrical characteristics below the above standards
on short stretches and/or a limited number of curves if this would entail
substantial savings in project costs and would not produce any significant
constraint for RAN's operations, regarding in particular the maximum weight
and length of trains permitted on the newer sections of the line.
13.       Other alternatives:  The consultants shall identify, analyze and
estimate the costs of any alternative alignment or variant that: (i) would
be compatible with RAN's present design characteristics, and (ii) promises
to be less expensive than the alignments described in paras. 11 and 12.
Traffic
14.       The consultants shall use the freight traffic forecasts for Bouake-
Petionara-Tafire for 1977-1985 given in the attached table. After 1985 the
consultants shall assume an annual increase of freight traffie of 2%. The
average transport distance for this traffic is estimated at 700 km and is
expected to remain unchanged.
15.       The number of passengers on Petionara-Tafire, estimated at 840,000
in 1975, shall be assumed by the consultants to increase at an annual rate of
2.8% until 1985 and at 1.5% thereafter. The average distance traveled by
these passengers shall be determined by the consultants and shall be assumed
to remain constant if there is no clear evidence to the contrary.
Cost-Benefit Analysis
16.       Costs and benefits, to determine internal economic rates of return,
shall be expressed in 1977 prices. Project costs shall include physical
contingencies and exclude taxes. The consultants shall make appropriate
use of shadow prices. The shadow wage rate for unskilled or semi-skilled
labor in the Ivory Coast is estimated at 0.83.
17.       The consultants shall do analyses of four types:  (a) the rate
of return of each solution as determined by the technical studies shall be
determined separately, comparing each solution with the present situation;
(b) after classifying those of the above solutions which show a rate of
return of more than 10% in an order of increasing project costs, an incre-
mental analysis shall be done, showing the rate of return on the portion



ANNEX 10
Page 15
of the solution's cost that is incremental to the cost of the proceeding
solution. In any event, an incremental analysis shall be done for the
solution recommended by the consultants as an increment to the reference
case (para. 10). Care shall be taken to avoid double-counting of benefits;
(c) the optimal timing of the different solutions shall be determined by
means of a net present value analysis, using a discount rate of 12%; and
(d) a sensitivity analysis shall show the sensitivity of the f indings under
(a) to (c) above to the following assumptions, taken separately and together:
(i) freight traffic increase beyond the 1976 level only 50% of that spelled
out in para. 14; (ii) rail transport cost 10% higher than initially esti-
mated by the consultants, due to railway inefficiencies; and (iii) investment
costs 15% higher than initially estimated (in addition to the physical con-
tingencies already included in costs). An additional analysis, to be done
both separately and together with the aggregate of the above sensitivity
analyses, shall test the sensitivity of the results to an inclusion of
manganese ore transport from Tambao to Abidjan.
18.       In estimating cost streams, in particular for the alignment men-
tioned in para. 11, the consultants shall inter alia take into account the
economic costs generated by the selection of a new alignment in the form
of: (i) a need to maintain all or part of the existing line to link
actual or future customers (e.g., a sugar plant) to the railway; and/or
(ii) an expected loss of actual or future rail traffic. Expected gains of
rail traffic, linked to a specific alignment, should correspondingly be
considered as a benefit.
19.       The consultants shall consider, whenever appropriate, the follow-
ing types of benefits, consisting in the avoidance of costs for: (i)
derailments; (ii) broken rails; (iii) track maintenance; (iv) track super-
vision and emergency staff; (v) diversion of rail traffic to road;
(vi) traction costs for passenger and freight trains; and (vii) procure-
ment of locomotives. The consultants shall endeavor to identify and
quantify additional types of benefits.
Financial Analysis
20.       The consultants shall determine the internal financial rates of
return for the solution identified by the consultants as the optimal one
and for the second-best alternative. For this purpose the consultants
shall: (i) use constant 1977 prices; (ii) take into account inter alia
the costs and benefits mentioned in para. 18; (iii) analyze and estimate
those costs which they cannot obtain from RAN's cost accounting system;
and (iv) take into account RAN's plans for tariff increases over and above
inflationary cost increases.
21.       The consultants shall determine the influence of the optimal
solution and the second-best alternative on RAN's cash flow. For this
purpose the consultants shall assume: (i) an annual cost inflation of 5%;



ANNEX 10
Page 16
(ii) corresponding offsetting tariff increases, in addition to those
mentioned in para. 20; (iii) financing by RAN of the local costs of the
project; and (iv) financing by long-term borrowing of the foreign costs
of the project. The assumed terms of this financing shall be an interest
rate of 9% and repayment in 16 annuities after 4 years of grace.
22.       The cash flow analysis shall cover the period from the begin-
ning of project implementation until 10 years after completion of the
project. The probable impact of the project on the expected amount of
Government contributions shall be analyzed separately.
D.   REPORTS AND TIMING
23.       The consultants shall submit:  (i) an interim report at the end
of the second month following the starting date of their works; (ii) a
Draft Final Reprt within 4 months of the starting date summarizing all
work performed, the findings and recommendations of the consultants,
including maps, plans, estimates and diagrams of the proposed construction
program and of what the consultants consider to be the second-best solu-
tion; and (ii) a Final Report within 30 days of the receipt of all comments
on the Draft, incorporating all appropriate revisions.
24.       All reports shall include a summary of the consultants' findings
and recommendations. The interim report shall be submitted in 8 copies
in French. The Draft Final Report shall be submitted in 50 copies in
French and 30 copies in English. The Final Report shall be submitted in
50 copies in French and 30 copies in English.
E.   INFORMATION AND SERVICES PROVIDED BY RAN
25.       RAN will:  (i) provide the consultants will all available informa-
tion on the railway, its organization, administration and operations; and
(ii) assist the consultants in obtaining necessary information from the
Governments and other organizations.
26.       In the Ivory Coast, RAN will provide for the consultants:  (i)
administrative and secretarial services; (ii) offices with furniture and
equipment; and (iii) rail transport. The consultants will determine in
their proposals the services and facilities needed under (i) and (ii) above.



ANNEX 10
Page 17
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF A REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Bouake-Petionara-Tafire Traffic Provisions
--------------------- Freight Traffic (Tons '000) -------------------------
1976    1977      1978    1979    1980    1981   1982             1985
Southbound
Livestock              23.0    25.0      27.0    30.0    35.0    37.0   39.0              44.0
Cotton                 30.0    34.0      37.5    41.0    44.0    47.0   51.0             60.0
Oil seeds             120.0   102.0    105.0   107.0   110.0   112.0  115.0              125.0
Sugar                  14.0    24.0      32.0    44.0    56.0    76.0   92.0            120.0
Logs                     -        -        -        -        -        -      -
Molasses                3.0      4.0       6.0    10.0    19.0    25.0   30.0             40.0
Miscellaneous          13.4    15.0      14.5    14.3    14.3    14.6   14.9              15.6
Total                 203.4   204.0    222.0   246.3   278.3   311.6  341.9             404.6
Northbound
Petroleum
products             108.0   120.0    133.0   147.0   160.0   171.0  183.0             223.0
Cement                 60.6    77.9      95.0   108.5   121.9   134.7  147.5            184.8
Metal products         23.5    25.0       27.0    29.0    30.0    31.0   32.0             35.0
Fertilizer             30.0    32.2      35.2    39.0    42.8    46.5   48.7              56.25
Food and
beverage              91.0    89.0      89.0    89.0    89.0    89.0   89.0              89.0
Miscellaneous          55.0    57.0      58.0    61.0    63.0    65.0   67.0              74.0
Total                368.2   401.1    437.2   473.5   506.7   537.2  567.2             662.1
GRAND TOTAL            571.6   605.1    659.2   719.8   785.0   848.8  909.1            12066.7



ANNEX 11
Page 1
DETAILS OF ECONOMIC EVALUATION
General
1.        The economic evaluation consists of an itemized cost-benefit
analysis providing economic rates of return for each project component
and for the project as a whole. A sensitivity analysis identifies how
variations of the main parameters affect the economic rate of return.
2.        All costs and benefits are expressed in constant 1976 CFA francs.
Investment costs are net of taxes and include physical contingencies. The
fixed parity between the French franc and CFA franc is given by CFAF 100 =
FF 2. The exchange rate with the dollar, whenever applicable, is US$1 =
CFAF 245. Shadow pricing is applied to the value of labor in the evalua-
tion of investments resulting in savings in labor costs; it has not been
applied, however, to local costs of civil works; therefore, the rates of
return obtained are somewhat underestimated. The shadow price is taken at
.83 of market wage rates.
Road and Rail Operating Costs -
3.        An important benefit of the proposed investments is avoiding diver-
sion of existing and future railway freight traffic to road transport. As
shown by the data below, economic _osts of road transport are substantially
higher than the railway's for the kind of traffie and distance involved.
4.        The operating cost of road transport is based on estimates prepared
by the consulting firm SETEC in October 1976. They correspond to the oper-
ating cost of 18-ton trucks for stretches of homogeneous characteristies
between Abidjan and Upper Volta. The following succession of stretches
establishes a continuous way from Abidjan to the Upper Voltan border.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Operating Cost Estimates
Stretch:           1       2       3        4       5         6      7       8      9    10
Length (km)        6       6.1    1.4    60.8    27.9       21.5   16.4    55      45    41
SETEC Cost
Figure (CFAF) 1047.8   971.5   223   9683.5  4443.6   3424.3  2612  8759.2 7166.6 6529.6
Stretch:           il      12     13       14      15        16     17      18     19    20
Length (km)       5.8    50.7   7.4        51      65        15     48      47    44.4  30.5
SETEC Cost
Figure (CFAF) 923.7 8074.4 1178.5 8122.2 10253.2 2388.9 7571.8 7414.1 8763.6 6228.7
The SETEC transport cost per vehicle, excluding tax, is therefore CFAF 105,800.5
for 645.9 km, or CFAF 163.8/km. It is expressed in 1975 CFAF and includes
vehicle running cost, insurance, amortization and overheads. It does not
incorporate road maintenance costs. SETEC's estimate takes into account the
structure and the condition of the road, including improvements expected to be
made by 1979-1980. It applies to a small enterprise (one or two trucks), and
it assumes good maintenance standards.
5.        The estimated operating cost of road transport in 1976 CFAF is
reached by deducting CFAF 39.3 from the SETEC cost figure which includes
amortization and debt service and inflating to 1976 by a factor of 1.08. The
1976 cost is thus CFAF 134.45/18 t-truck-km. For load factors in the range of
.5 to .7, it can be established 1/ that the road maintenance cost is CFAF
6.45/18 t-truck-km. Therefore, the economic cost of road transport including
vehicle operating costs and road maintenance is estimated at CFAF 140.9/18
t-truck-km. Assuming a 65% utilization factor, a cost of CFAF 12.0/ton-km is
obtained. With an estimated purchase price (tax free) of CFAF 10.6 million 2/
for a 18 ton-truck and economic life of 7 years, the operating cost, including
depreciation of the truck, is CFAF 15.4/ton-km. 3/
1/   SETEC "Etude de la Fiscalite Routiere en Cote d'Ivoire", August 1974.
2/   SETEC Study on Ivory Coast's transport sector, 1976.
3/   In a study of Upper Volta's Transport Sector prepared by BCEOM in June
1976 under FAC financing, road transport costs are estimated to vary
from CFAF 13.0/ton-km to CFAF 20.7/ton-km, depending on the annual
distance travelled, the type of truck and the utilization factor. The
figure of CFAF 15.4/ton-km adopted for the analysis may therefore
slightly underestimate average truck operating costs.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
6.        Railway operating costs (excluding depreciation) have been derived
from RAN's marginal expenses, without taxes, during the period 1970-1976,
presented in Table 1 to this Annex. 1/ Railway marginal costs are calculated
at CFAF 7.3 per ton-km. Adding the costs of transshipment to make the service
comparable to road transport, estimated on average at CFAF 0.8/ton-km, total
railway operating costs are CFAF 8.1 ton-km.
Evaluation of Project Components
Improvement of the 89-km Bouake-Petionara section
7.        The project includes the realignment of the 89-km stretch Bouake-
Petionara. To show that realignment is economically superior to rehabilita-
tion, it is demonstrated first that rehabilitation is economically justified,
and second that the economic return of the incremental investment in realign-
ment (over rehabilitation) is satisfactory.
Track rehabilitation
8.        By renewing the track between Bouake and Petionara, RAN avoids the
economic consequences of an increasing number of derailments and broken rails
arising from the deteriorating condition of the track. Derailments provoke
passenger injuries and casualties, damages to locomotives and rolling stock,
reduction of line capacity and an increased turnaround time of crews and
equipment. The welding of existing old rails (which are about 50 years
old) on some stretches of this section, which presently attempts to prevent
derailments due to the poor condition of the track and to reduce maintenance
burdens, cannot prevent broken rails due to track wear and cannot consequently
avoid delays in operations and possible derailments. A solution without re-
newal would require more frequent maintenance, an additional labor force nec-
essary for track inspection and repair of broken rails and a diversion of
traffic to the road due to the poor service.
9.        The cost of one derailment is estimated at CFAF 8.39 million:
CFAF 3.53 million for locomotive and rolling stock repairs; CFAF 3.40 million
for track repair, CFAF 0.99 million for the immobilization of equipment; CFAF
0.33 million for increase in turnaround time, CFAF 141,120 for crew costs.
In addition, the poor condition of worn track requires supplementary tamping
estimated to cost CFAF 36.5 million/year and additional track supervision
maintenance and emergency gangs according to the forecast number of derail-
ments shown in the next paragraph, with annual costs as follows: 1979-81:
CFAF 12.86 million; 1982-84 CFAF 25.73 million; 1985-2000 CFAF 45.03 million.
The cost of one occurence of broken rails is estimated at CFAF 195,000 in-
cluding CFAF 70,070 for the increase in turnaround time, CFAF 30,135 for the
additional working time of the crews, CFAF 65,415 for the repairs and welding
and CFAF 29,400 for the utilization of a gang car. For the broken rail prob-
lem, the additional labor cost represents CFAF 7.65 million/year for inspec-
tion, CFAF 6.81 million/year for a stand-by gang, and CFAF 36.51 million/year
for the additional mechanical maintenance (tamping).
1/   Table numbers, except as otherwise noted, refer to tables of this Annex.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
10.       Under normal conditions, disruptions of the section Bouake-Petionara
would be limited to three derailments in a four-year period and one occurrence
of broken rails per year. The following table shows the additional number of
derailments and broken rail occurrences expected without renewal (Bank's esti-
mates), over and above those that would take place with renewal:
1990
No. of    1979   1980   1981   1982   1982   1984   1985  onwards
Derailments      7      8      il     12      15     17      20     55
Broken rails   14      17      21     27      35     44      59    196
11.       Without rehabilitation, the progressive deterioration of RAN's qual-
ity of service due to the increase in derailments and broken rails is expected
to divert freight traffic to more expensive road transport.
The economic cost of road transport, as mentioned in para. 5, is estimated at
CFAF 15.4/ton-km, including depreciation of the truck (but excluding capital
costs of the road). The economic cost of rail is CFAF 9.6/ton-km (para. 6),
including depreciation of locomotives and roliing stock (CFAF 1.5/ton-km),
and transshipment costs. Most of present railway traffic is long distance
and the new traffic to be generated in future years will also be long
distance; the present, limited short- and medium-distance railway traffic
is mostly from siding to siding, and there are no transshipment costs. It is
estimated, therefore, that only a very marginal part of the traffic to be
diverted to the road would be subject to a road-rail cost differential lower
than the one mentioned above.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
Percentage of Traffic    Expected I/        Annual 2/       Cumultive
Increase Diverted        Increase        Diversion       Diversion
to Road            ('000 tons)    (million t-km) (million t-km)
1981                10                 63.8              4.5               4.5
1982                10                 60.3              4.2               8.7
1983                15                52.5               5.5              14.2
1984                20                52.5               7.4             21.6
1985                25                52.5               9.2             30.8
1986                30                 40.0              8.4             39.2
1987                35                40.0               9.8             49.0
1988                40                40.0              11.2             60.2
1989                50                40.0              14.0             74.2
1990                60                40.0              16.8             91,0
1991                70                 40.0             19.6            110.6
1992                85                40.0              23.8            134.4
1993               100                 40.0             28.0            162.4
1994               100                40.0              28.0            190.4
1/   Total traffic through Bouake-Petionara in 1985 is forecast at 1.07 mil-
lion tons, and therefore traffic increases of 40,000 ton/year beyond
1985 represents less than 4% annual growth and should be considered
as a conservative estimate.
2/   Estimated average total distance haul for traffie passing through
Bouake-Petionara section: 700 km.
12.       The economic rate of return of track rehabilitation is 18%.
(See costs and benefits stream in Table 2). The rate of return would fall
to 17%, if investment costs were 10% higher than expected; also to 17%
with 10% higher rail operating costs; to 15%, if rail traffic increased only
50% of the forecast from 1975, and to 13%, in the case of a combination
of these three events. These results are satisfactory.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
Trackrealignment
13.       The track realignment is intended to remove slope gradients in
excess of 10 mm/m and reduce the curvature of the line on the Bouake-
Petionara section. On the present route the gross tonnage per B-BB 1800 loco-
motive averages 400 tons with a load factor of 62%. The analysis considers
net tonnage per locomotive of 223 ton with present alignment and 341 tons with
realignment, which would underestimate the benefits of the realignment, as the
first figure is likely to be higher and the second lower than the actual
values. A conversion factor net ton-km to gross ton-km of 2.2 is assumed.
The benefits of the realignment are quantified as follows: (i) savings in
freight traction costs are estimated on the basis of a difference of CFAF
1.1/net ton-km 1/ in direct operating costs of locomotives "with" and "with-
out" realignment; (ii) savings in passenger traction costs are estimated on
the same basis, and in the assumption of 1.5 pass-km per ton-km; (iii) savings
in locomotive investments on the basis of 100,000 km/ year per locomotive and
renewal every two million km; initially 3 locomotives - 2 stand-by and 1 in
reserve - would need to be bought in late 1977, to be available by end-1979
if the realignment is not carried out, to provide traction capacity for double
heading along the Bouake-Petionara section (additional locomotives would be
needed for double heading in the Petionara-Tafire section); and (iv) savings
in track maintenance, estimated at CFAF 11.6 million/year. The costs and
benefit streams are presented in Table 3.
14.       The yield on the incremental investment allowing for realignment
instead of rehabilitation is 15%. The rate of return would fall to 13% if
investment costs were 10% higher than estimated, to 11%, if traffic growth
were only 50% of the forecast, and to 10%, in the case of these two events,
occuring simultaneously. These results are satisfactory. Since no road
diversion benefits have been assumed for the realignment alone, the rate of
return would not be affected by a possible increase in railway operating
costs.
15.       Complete realignment project.  The complete realignment investment,
including track rehabilitation and track realignment, would yield a return
of 17%. The return would remain at 17% with 10% higher rail operating costs,
fall to 16% with 10% higher investment costs, fall to 14% with traffic growth
limited to 50% of the forecast, and fall to 13% in the case of all three of
these events combined. The project yields therefore a satisfactory economic
return.
16.       Freight cars, tank cars and locomotives.  The analysis considers
packages of freight cars and locomotives, and tank cars (to be purchased by
the oil companies) and locomotives; locomotives which are to replace wornout
or obsolete equipment are evaluated separately.
1/   With the present load factor of 62%, operating costs Bouake-Petionara
are CFAF 222/ton on the present line and would be CFAF 118/ton with the
realignment, or a difference of about CFAF 104/ton. For the 90 km
section, this represents about CFAF 1.15/ton-km.



ANNEX 11
Page 7
17.       Freight cars (and associated locomotives).  This project component
comprises the purchase of 210 freight cars (and the locomotives required to
haul them) to satisfy the excess demand for rail transport as calculated
in Annex 8. Net ton-km provided by the new freight wagons are estimated
as shown below. It has been assumed a substantial increase in 1981 and
slight thereafter, as a result of higher traffic and increased utilization
of the cars.
Years:        1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984   1985 to 2002
Millions of
net-t-km         47.2  48.8  104.5 171.7 177.6 177.4 178.2         178.9
Freight cars
available:       60   140    210   210   210   210   210           210
It is estimated that one new locomotive is needed for every 20.3 million
net ton-km. Some 8.8 locomotives would then be needed to haul the new
freight cars.
18.       If the new freight wagons (and locomotives) are not purchased,
the traffic they would have carried would be diverted to road transport at a
higher cost. Based on the savings from the avoided diversion (See table 4),
the rate of return for this component is 26%. The return would fall to 24%
with 10% higher investment costs, to 23% with 10% higher rail operating costs,
to 24% with traffic growth 50% of the forecast, and to 20% with a simultaneous
combination of these three events.
19.       Tank Cars (and associated locomotives).  While the project does
not include purchase of tank wagons, 40 such wagons will be bought by the
petroleum companies operating in Ivory Coast to transport the forecast
petroleum traffic. RAN will have to provide the required motive power.
The 40 wagons will provide the following ton-km (see Annex 8).
1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985 to 2002
Millions of t-km:    31.1  39.8  42.1  46.3  48.1  49.9          51.8
20.       The economic evaluation of the investment in tank cars and required
locomotives is made using the same methodology applied to freight wagons and
locomotives, i.e. benefits are quantified on the basis of avoided diversion
to road transport. The equivalent of three locomotives is needed to pull the
tank wagons purchased under the project. Cost and benefit streams are pre-
sented in Table 5. The rate of return for this investment is 30%, and it
falls to 28% with 10% higher investment costs, 26% with 10% higher rail oper-
ating costs, to 19% with traffic growth reduced by 50%, and 15% with all three
events combined.



ANNEX 11
Page 8
21.       Locomotives (for renewal).  The evaluation of the locomotives
to be substituted for existing equipment is based on the benefits and costs
of: i) replacement of 5CC-2400 locomotives which are very costly to operate
and which is justified based on savings in locomotive operating costs, and ii)
replacement of 26 CC-1000 and CC-1500 locomotives which are too old and cannot
continue to haul long distance service (see Annex 3) and which is justified
based on the diversion of freight to road transport if the traction capacity
needed to replace the old locomotives is not available. Based on the kilo-
metrage of the existing locomotives and their traction capacity and assuming
that the new locomotives were to perform the same as the existing B-BB 1800
(see Table 1 of main text), it is estimated that five CC-2400s would be
replaced by 1.3 new locomotives and the 26 CC-1000 and 1500 by 4.9 locomotives
(8.8 locomotives for the freight wagons and 3.0 locomotives for the 40 tank
cars provided by the oil companies complete the total of 18 new locomotives to
be purchased under the project).
22.       The rate of return for the locomotives to be used for renewal
purposes is 36% (See Table 6). This rate would fall to 33% if locomotives
cost were 10% higher than expected, to 32% with 10% higher rail operating
costs, and to 30% in the combination of these two events. There is no
sensitivity to reduced traffic growth since these locomotives are needed
to haul existing traffic.
Track improvement in Upper Volta
23.       The project includes improvement of the track in Upper Volta
consisting in the ballasting of about 100 km, renewal of 40 km of sleepers
and repairing several fills which are badly eroded. The improvement of the
track will restore safety standards to the line and generate savings in main-
tenance costs and derailment costs:
i)   Maintenance cost savings due to re-ballasting are estimated
at 54 man-years, of which 4 man-years stemming from reduction
in maintenance staff of 0.04 man-km and avoiding the
additional staff that would be required for supplementary
inspection and emergency repairs (0.5 m/km). The economic
cost of the 54 man-years is estimated at CFAF 46.3 million,
based on salaries of CFAP 857,500/year and a shadow price
for labor of 0.83; 1/
ii)   Derailment costs are estimated on the basis of a unit cost
of a derailment of CFAF 8.39 million (excluding additional
tamping and inspection that may be needed) and the following
forecast of derailments "without" the project:
1/   This is the shadow wage rate for the Ivory Coast; the rate for Upper
Volta is not available. Assuming a shadow price of 0.5 for Upper
Volta, the rate of return would be reduced by about one percentage point.



ANNEX 11
Page 9
Years         1977-79  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
No.              2     2.3   2.6   3.0   3.4   3.9   4.4   5.0   5.7   6.5   7.4
iii)   The cost of interruption of traffic due to collapse of earth
fills is estimated on the basis of two weeks' interruption
per year, causing 50% of this traffic or 2% of annual freight
traffic to be diverted to road transport.
24.       All benefits of tnis investment are based on 1976 traffic levels.
The rate of return obtained is 13% and is somewhat underestimated for the
above reason. With 10% higher investment cost the return would fall to 12%,
and also to 12% with 10% higher rail costs. With a combination of these two
events, the return remains at 12% (see Table 7 for cost and benefit streams).
Track maintenance equipment
25.       The evaluation of track maintenance equipment has been divided
into equipment for renewal and equipment to continue RAN's track mainte-
nance mechanization plans.
26.       Equipment for renewal.  The equipment for renewal consists of four
gang cars, six light inspection cars, one heavy inspection car and spare parts
for tamping machines. The estimated invesm-n"'ix cost is CFAF 173 million.
Due to mechanization, the labc - `      nas been reduced by about 200 people
from 1970 to 1976, and the total reduction since the beginning of the mechani-
zation program is estimated at 250 workers. These staff would have to be
re-hired if the worn-out maintenance equipment, which is 10 to 20 years old,
is not replaced. Estimating the savings at only 150 people, and applying
shadow price of labor, the annual benefits from this investment would be CFAF
106.8 million. Operating costs of this equipment are estimated at CFAF
490/day per car (US$0.10/ km and 20 km per day). The rate of return for this
component would be 53%, which falls to 49% with 10% higher investment costs.
The evaluation is based on existing requirements of track equipment and is
therefore independent of future traffic levels (see table 8).
27.       Equipment for further mechanization.  The equipment to continue
the mechanization plans consists of 2 gang cars, 2 light inspection cars,
2 heavy inspection cars, 15 trailers, 2 bulldozers and 1 sleeper pressing
machine. Their estimated investment cost is CFAF 196 million. The continua-
tion of the mechanization will result in savings of an estimated 87 workers.
Average operating costs of this equipment are estimated at CFAF 490/day per
car or other items. The economic evaluation for this component, carried out
in the same form as for the renewal equipment, ylelds a rate of return of 25%
which would fall to 22% if investment costs were 10% higher than expected
(see table 9).



ANNEX 11
Page 10
Evaluation of the Whole Proiect
28.       The whole project has been evaluated by consolidating Costs and
benefits from the individual investments. Care has been taken to avoid
potential double counting of benefits, and for this reason the benefits from
avoided diversion in the rehabilitation of Bouake-Petionara have not been in-
cluded in the analysis of the consolidated project, as they could duplicate
the benefits stemming from rolling stock and locomotive investment. The rate
of return is 23%. This rate would fall to 21% with higher investment costs,
21% with higher rail costs, 20% with lower traffic and to 17% with a combina-
tion of these three events.



RAN: Long-term Marginal Working Expenses Without Taxes
(in 1976 prices)
1970         1975          1976          1980          1982
Pass-km (millions)                            626           946          1021          1324          1447
Ton-km (millions)                             402           392           504           672           761
Traffic units (millions)
(t.u.: t/km+pjjm  f )                      611           707           844          1133          1243
3
Working expenses (CFAF million)              6797 2/       7567          8934         11050         12417
Taxes and transfer payments 3/
(CFAF million)                            1393          1550          1831          2265          2545
Net working expenses
(CFAF million)                            5404          6017          7103          8785          9872
Working expenses/t.u. (CFAF)                 11.1          10.7          10.6           9.8          10.0
Net working expenses/t.u. (CFAF)              8.8           8.5           8.4           7.8           7.9
MARGTNA. ANAIÀYSTS:                                                    1970-1976                   1976-1982
Increment t.u. (millions)                                                 233                         536
Increment net working expenses
(CFAF million)                                                        1699                        3855
Marginal net working expenses/t.u. (CFAF)                                 7.3                         7.2
1/  This ratio reflects closely the relationship between the actual cost incurred by RAN  for
1 pass-km and 1 t-km.
2/  In 1976 prices; index:  1970 = 100; 1976 =195.
3/ 20.5% of working expenses.



ANNEX 11
REHABILITATION OF BOUAKE - PETIONARA                 Table  2
COSTS AND BENEFITS
(CFAF million)
Ci             B1            B2           B3          B4             B5
Derailment                 Broken
Addil       Broken        Rail        Savings in
Investment     Derailment    Staffing        Rail        Add'l   Avoided Diversion
Year      Costs           Costs      & Tamping       Costs     Staffing        to Road
1977        4tO
1978       1500
1979        810            29.3         24.7          1.3          7.2
1980                       67.1         49.5          3.3        14.4
1981                       92.3         49.5          4.1        14.4            25.8
1982                      100.6         49.5          5.3        14.4            50.4
1983                      125.8         62.2          6.8        14.4            82.3
1984                      142.6         62.2          8.6        21.2           125.3
1985                      167.7         62.2         11.5        21.2           178.6
1986                      241.1         62.2         20.7         21.2          227.4
1987                      314.5         81.5         29.9         28.1          284.2
1988                      387.9         81.5         39.1        28.1           349.2
1989                      461.4         81.5         48.3         28.1          430.4
1990                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1           527.8
1991                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1           641.5
1992                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1           779.5
1993                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1           941.9
1994                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
1995                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
1996                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
1997                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
1998                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
1999                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
2000                      461.4         81.5         57.7       .28.1         1,104.4
2001                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
2002                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
2003                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
2004                      461.4         81.5         57.7         28.1        1,104.4
2005                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
2006                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
2007                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
2008                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
2009                      461.4         81.5         57.7        28.1         1,104.4
B1:  includes locomotive and rolling stock repairs, track repair, immobilization
of equipment, increase in turnaround time and crew costs
B2: includes additional staff needed for maintenance, track supervision and emer-
gency gangs.
B3: includes increased turnaround time, crews (repairs, welding, utilization of
gang cars)
B4: includes additional staff needed for inspection and stand-by gangs
B5:  costs include depreciation of trucks and rail motive power & rolling stock



ANNEX Il
Table 3
1/
REALIGNMENT OF BOUAKE - PETIONARA-
COSTS AND BENEFITS
(CFAF million)
4/
2/                          B3--              5
Ci            B1             B2-/         Savings in         B4
Investment     Savings in    Savings in       Passenger       Savings in
Cost     Freight Traction Locomotive        Traction         Track
Year       Realignment        Costs        Purchases         Costs       Maintenance
1977           520
1978           360                            507
1979           680
1980           340            77.0            169            63.0            11.6
1981                          83.1                           65.0            11.6
1982                          89.0                           66.0            11,6
1983                          94.2                           68.0            11.6
1984                          99.2                           68.0            11.6
1985                         104.4                           70.0            11.6
1986                         109.0                           70.0            11.6
1987                         113.4                           70.0            11.6
1988                         117.9                           70.0            11.6
1989                         122.6                           70.0            11.6
1990                         127.5                           70.0            11.6
1991                         132.6                           70.0            11.6
1992                         138.0                           70,0            11.6
1993                         143.4            169            70,0            11.6
1994                         149.2            169            70.0            11.6
1995                         155.1                           70.0            11.6
1996                         161.3                           70.0            11.6
1997                         167.8                           70.0            11.6
1998                         174.5                           70.0            11.6
1999                         181.5                           70.0            11.6
2000                         188.7                           70.0            11.6
2001                         196.2                           70.0            11.6
2002                         204.1                           70.0            11.6
2003                         212.3                           70.0            11.6
2004                         220.8            169            70.0            11.6
2005                         229.6                           70.0            11.6
2006                         238.8                           70.0            11.6
2007                         248.3                           70.0            11.6
2008                         258.2                           70.0            11.6
2009                         268.5           -118            70.0            11.6
1/  Costs and benefits are incremental over rehabilitation.
2/  Freight traction cost savings calculated on basis of differential costs
with and without project of CFAF 1.1/loco-km. Pulling capacity assumed
341 net ton/loco with project and 223 net ton/loco without project.
3/  1 locomotive purchase saved for every 100,000 annual loco-km difference between
"without" and "with" realignment; renewal every 2,000,000 loco-km.
4/  Calculated assuming equivalence 1.5 pass-km = 1.0 ton-km, estimated to be the
relatronsaip for traction costs only.
5/  Bank estimate.  Savings based on reduced number of loco-kilometers over the
section.



ANNEX 11
Table 4
1/
FREIGHT CARS AND LOCOMOTIVES-
COSTS AND BENEFITS
(CFAF million)
Ci              C2                B1
Investment      Investment        Savings in
Costs           Costs      Avoided Diversion
Year                    Freight Cars   Locomotives           to Road
1977                         695            470
1978                         695            710
1979                         695            318                356
1980                         232             80                763
1981                                                          1253
1982                                                          1289
1983                                                          1295
1984                                                          1300
1985                                                          1300
1986                                                          1300
1987                                                          1300
1988                                                          1300
1989                                                          1300
1990                                                          1300
1991                                                          1300
1992                                                          1300
1993                                                          1300
1994                                                          1300
1995                                                          1300
1996                                                          1300
1997                                                          1300
1998                                                          1300
1999                                                          1300
1/ This analysis refers to freight cars (excepting tank cars
which are analyzed separately) and to the locomotives
needed to haul them. Locomotives purchased to replace
obsolete or worn-out equipment are evaluated separately.



ANNEX 11
Table 5
TANK CARS AND LOCOMOTIVES-/
COSTS AND BENEFITS
(CFAF million)
Ci              C2                B1
Investment      Investment        Savings in
Costs           Costs      Avoided Diversion
Year                    Tank Wagons    Locomotives           to Road
1977                         196             270
1978                         196             270
1979                                                          227.0
1980                                                          290.5
1981                                                          307.3
1982                                                          338.0
1983                                                          350.4
1984                                                          364.3
1985                                                          378.1
1986                                                          378.1
1987                                                          378.1
1988                                                          378.1
1989                                                          378.1
1990                                                          378.1
1991                                                          378.1
1992                                                          378.1
1993                                                          378.1
1994                                                          378.1
1995                                                          378.1
1996                                                          378.1
1997                                                          378.1
1998                                                          378.1
1999                                                          378.1
1/ The economic evaluation considers the investment in tank cars
(to be made by the oil companies) and in the locomotives needed
to pull them as a package.



ANNEX 11
Table 6
'I
LOCOMOTIVES-
COSTS AND BENEFITS
(CFAF million)
C2'            Bi                 41
C1-             B1-              B2-
Investment      Savings in        Savings in
Costs         Operating   Avoided Diversion
Year                    Locomotives         Costs           to Road
1977
1978                        460
1979                        460
1980                                        46.4              125
1981                                        46.4              188
1982                                        46.4              313
1983                                        46.4              439
1984                                        46.4              564
1985                                        46.4              627
1986                                        46.4              627
1987                                        46.4              627
1988                                        46.4              627
1989                                        46.4              627
1990                                        46.4              627
1991                                        46.4              627
1992                                        46.4              627
1993                                        46.4              627
1994                                        46.4              627
1995                                        46.4              627
1996                                        46.4              627
1997                                        46.4              627
1998                                        46.4              627
1999                                        46.4              627
1/  This analysis refers to locomotives which will replace
obsolete and worn-out equipment. Locomotives needed to
pull the new freight and tank cars are evaluated in a
package with the cars.
2/ 6.2 locomotives are needed for renewal.
3/ Difference in operating costs between the new 1800-2000 hp
locomotives and the existing CC-2400's estimated at CFAF 386.8/
loco-km.
4/ Assuming that the obsolete CC-1000 and CC-1500 could continue
to carry traffic until 1985, but gradually decreasing their
transport capacities.



ANNEX 1 1
Table 7
LINE IMPROVEMENT IN UPP ER VOLTA
Costs and tenefits
(CFAF million)
ci             nI7               B2-~-'            B3nz
Savggs            Savings i         Savings in
Investment        Track           Derailment         Avoided
Year          Costs        Maintenance           Costs          Divers-ion
1978          523.5
1979          523.5
1980                           38.4               19.3
1981                           38..4              21.8
1982                           38.4               25.2
1983                           38.4               28.5             64.U
1984                           38.4               32.7             64.0
1985                           38.4               36.9             64.0
1986                           38.4               42.0             64.0
1987                           38.4               47.8             64.0
1988                           38.4               54.5             64.0
1989                           38.4               62.5             64.0
1990                           38.4               70.8             64.0
1991                           38.4               80.7             64.0
1992                           38.4               92.0             64.0
1993                           38.4              104.9             64.0
1994                           38.4              119.6             64.0
1995                           38,4              136.3             64.0
1996                           38.4              155.4             64.0
1997                           38.4              177.2             64.0
1998                           38.4              201.9             64.0
1999                           38.4              230.2             64.0
2000                           38.4              262.4             64.0
2001                           38.4              299.2             64.0
2002                           38.4              341.1             64.0
2003                           38.4              388.8             64.0
2004                           38.4              443.3             64.0
1/ Estimated at 54 man/years (4 man/years for regular maintenance and
50 man/years due to additional needs for track inspection) obtained
by re-ballasting and new sleepers. Labor savings are
assessed at its shadow price, 0.83.
2/ Derailmentsoriginated by lack of ballast, 2 during 1977-1979 and
increasing 10% p.a. thereafter, and by bad sleepers, producing an
additional 4% annual increase in derailments.
3/ Assuming traffic interruptions of 2 weeks/year causing 2% of rail-
way traffie to divert to road transport.



ANNEX 11
Table 8
TRACK MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT - RENEWAL
Costs and Benefits
(CFAF Million)
C2             Bl   2/
Ci   i/        Operating Costs
Year    Investment Costs   ot E4urpmênt        Savings in Labor
1977          52
1978        103
1979          18                 2.0                 106.8
1980                             2.0                 106.8
1.981                            2.0                 106.8
1982                             2.0                 106.8
1983                             2.0                 106.8
1984                             2.0                 106.8
1985                             2.0                 106.8
1986                             2.0                 106.8
1987                             2.0                 106.8
1988                             2.0                 106.8
1/   Economic life of equipment assumed to be 10 years.
2/   Labor saved valued at shadow price.



ANNEX il
Table 9
TRACK MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT FOR FURTHER MECHANIZATION
Costs and Benefits
(CFAF Million)
C2
Cl  1/        Operating Costs           Bl      2/
Year      Investment Costs   of Equipment           Savings in  Labor
1977            59
1978           188
1979            19                  4.3                  61.9
1980                                4.3                  61.9
1981                                4.3                  61.9
1982                                4.3                  61.9
1983                                4.3                  61.9
1984                                4.3                  61.9
1985                                4.3                  61.9
1986                                4.3                  61.9
1987                                4.3                  61.9
1988                                4.3                  61.9
1/  Economic life of equipment assumed to be 10 years.
2/ Labor saved valued at shadow price.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
Assumptions Used to Forecast RAN's Financial Statements
1.   Income Accounts
1.1       Revenue from freight and passenger traffic is based on traffic
forecasts in Annexes 5 and 6. Revenue per ton-km is kept constant at the
end-1976 level, as both the average transport distance for freight and the
mixture of high- and low-rated commodities are expected to remain virtually
unchanged. Revenue per pass-km is expected to increase in 1978-1980 by
1.5% beyond the end-1976 level and by an additional 1.5% thereafter, due
to the introduction of a new rapid train service in 1977 for which a tariff
surcharge is planned. Revenue per pass-km will not be influenced by the
share of first-class passenger traffic which will remain virtually unchanged
below 5%, nor by the increased average distance of passenger traffic because
there is virtually no taper in the tariff for the range of distances under
consideration.
1.2       Miscellaneous revenue includes mostly the Service des Wagons-lits
et des Hotels du Tourisme and works executed by force account. The rapid
increase from 1975 to 1977 is caused by a more complete inclusion of revenue
from force account works. Only moderate increases are expected thereafter.
1.3       According to agreements reached with RAN, rate increases until
1979 will help to produce a working ratio of less than 75% in that year,
excluding Government contributions. Hence, they are expected to offset
inflationary cost increases and, additionally, to generate cumulative revenue
increases in constant prices of about 17.5%, divided into three steps of 4%
in 1977 and 6.5% in each of the years 1978 and 1979. Rate increases during
the remainder of the forecast period are expected to suffice to maintain the
1979 working ratio of 73%. The resulting average revenue increases generated
by rate increases are as follows, the 1977 figure being based on actually
implemented increases:
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
12%     15%      15%     9.5%    8.6%    9.7%
1.4       Staff costs are based on RAN's 1977 budget and on the following
staff numbers which were agreed upon at negotiations:



ANNEX 12
Page 2
RAN: Staff Numbers as of December 1976 to 1982
Motive Power      Ways    Studies and
and           and     Departmental            Adminis-
Operations Rolling Stock   Works         Forces        SWLHT  tration    Total
1976 1/  1050        1750         1350         218           272     460       5100
1977     1120        1770         1250         218           272     470       5200
1978     1130        1742         1350         218           280     480       5200
1979     1190        1740         1310         220           280     500       5240
1980     1210        1740         1280         220           280     510       5240
1981     1240        1780         1300         220           280     520       5340
1982     1260        1820         1330         220           280     530       5440
1/   There are, in addition, about 800 temporary staff for works executed by
force account.  Their number is expected to remain constant during the
forecast period.
Cost per staff member is expected to increase in constant prices by 5% p.a.
due to merit and seniority increases and employment of higher qualified staff.
Social security charges and other staff benefits are expected to remain at
the present level of about 23% of total staff costs through 1979 and to
increase thereafter to about 25%, corresponding to an additional increase in
total staff costs in 1980 of 2.5%. The rapid increase of staff costs in
1977 compared to 1976 is being caused, additionally, by a 3 percentage point
increase in the portion of social security charges, and by the inclusion, for
the first time, of the cost of temporary staff for force account work.
1.5       Fuel costs will grow in proportion to gross ton-km, the latter
being 2.2 x freight ton-km+0.4x pass-km. 60% of other costs are a function
of gross ton-km, and 40% are a function of staff costs. Interest on Bank
overdrafts is shown separately.
1.6       Depreciation is based on (i) the rates used by RAN, which are
satisfactory, and (ii) RAN's historic asset valuation. RAN is now reval-
uating its assets at replacement values, which will allow calculation of
more realistic depreciation allowances.
1.7       Government contributions to subsidize RAN's operating costs are
calculated until 1977 according to RAN's Articles of Agreement, i.e. 60% of
the costs of maintenance of ways and works which are expected to increase



ANNEX 12
Page 3
proportionally to the corresponding staff costs. The amounts shown for
1980 and later correspond to one-third of the amounts due under the present
arrangement.
1.8       Future inflation in the Ivory Coast is expected, according to the
Bank's economic report, to be on the order of 7 to 8.4%. This report uses
an annual inflationary increase of working expenses of 8%.
2.   Sources and Applications of Funds and Balance Sheets
2.1       Government contributions for maintenance and renewal, including the
Government's share of RAN's debt service, are expected to be paid after 1977
with about one year's delay on the expenses incurred by RAN. The Governments
pay to RAN 60% of the service for the debt incurred by RAN for partly reim-
bursable expenses. Additional infrastructure (line extensions and track
doubling) is to be paid promptly and entirely by the Governments, and it is
assumed that RAN will not incur any debt for these works. It is additionally
assumed that: (i) the Governments will pay in 1978/79 the amounts due for
earlier years, and (ii) in 1979 the subsidy scheme will be rearranged in such
a way that from 1980 onwards contributions will amount to only one-third of
what they would be under present arrangements (cf. Table 1). A simple across-
the-board reduction has been assumed, which is, evdiently, only one of many
possibilities.
2.2       Debt service is calculated for existing debt on actual terms and for
additional loans, excluding those for the proposed project, on assumed terms,
including an interest rate of 8% and repayment in 13 annuities after 2 years
of grace. This reflects the average terms of borrowing which RAN should be
able to obtain. Expected CIDA on-lending conditions are, based on indications
given by CIDA: 4% interest, 7 years of grace, thereafter 23 annuities. For
Bank and IDA terms cf. para. 4.19 and 7.04 of the main report.
2.3       Receivables (excluding the Government's short-term debts to RAN
and expected disbursements on long-term loans, which are included in RAN's
1975 figure) increased from 13% of operating revenue in 1973 to 18% in 1975.
An average figure of 15% is expected for 1977 and thereafter. Expected
disbursements on long-term loans have been excluded from the forecasts.
2.4       Stores are presently at an acceptable level.  They are being
maintained at 15% of annual working expenses.
2.5       Payables are expected to be reduced to the previous level of about
13% of working expenses plus capital investment, once present liquidity
problems have been solved.
2.6       Cash on hand is kept at a minimum of 10% of payroll, the shortfall
until 1978 being covered through Bank overdrafts.



RAN
Government Contributions l/
(CFAF million)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
Amounts due for FY for:
Maintenance                                922      926    1030    1173    1357    1569
Renewal                                    745      735      770     155      590     660
Additional infrastructure
(100% of cost)                          661    1624    1474    1438    1438    1500
Debt service:
Existing debt                           249      223     289      356      355     355
New debt                                 -        -      153      280      500     650
Total due for FY                             2577    3508    3716    3402    4240    4734
Amounts paid in FY for:
Maintenance, renewal, debt service        1639    1716    1889    2242    1964    2802
Additional infrastructure                          2285    1474    1438    1438    1500
Balances due                               469      787      432      -        -       -
Total paid in FY                          2108    4788    3790    3680    3402    4302
Receivable as of Dec. 31             3127    3596    2316    2242    1964    2802    3234
Source: RAN and Mission estimates
August 1977
-/amounts calculated according to agreements reached at negotiations. Reductions which are expected
after 1979 and are otherwise reflected in this report have not been made in this table.
~t1j
'-.1X






IVORY COAST/UPPER VOLTA REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT
RAN ORGANIZATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
L GENERAL MANAGER
ASSISTANT GENERAL
MANAGER
GENERAL INSPECTOR FOR                                                               R EPR RESENTATIVE
MANAGER IN UPPER VOLTA
ADMINISTATIVE  FI NCIAL  OERATIONSSTUDIES &               COMRIL          MOTIVE POWER        TRACK &
OPERATIONS   CIVIL WORKS      COMRIL          & ROLLING STOCK       WORKS
ADINSTATV            FIANIA                         rr  r MANAGER, 
MANAGER          MA AGER           MANAGER          MANAGER           MAAEMANAGER                        MANAGER
SUPPLIES &     SLEEPING CARS                      TEL ECOMMUNI-
TRAINING        PERSONNEL          MEDICAL           SPECIAL         S    ES         SLEEPIN  CARS      COMPUTING       CATIONS & SIG-   DOCUMENTATION
DIVISION       DEPARTMENT         SERVICE            POLICE           STORES         DEPATELS           SERVICES          NALLING           SERVICE
DEPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT                           SERVICE
World Bank-17222






RAN
TRACK & WORKS DEPARTMENT
TRACK CHARACTERISTICS
- Ù ô . >                                                                                               0 4
MAISTN STTIN                    -J                                             
-IL ~        ~ WIGI  33                                                              0         v°.                             T|
YEAR OF TRACK LAYING           U     96 9      1 9, 517117                                       17      9,           9416611-925,92912-12  
St                                              12        ZZ~~~~~~~~9,-93  9               W9... 11-1.                          2
LENGTH OF THE RAILS                    12       ,,12 14 16.                        1.                    _              14-                   _ E 
WEL.EO RAILS            3              _    _I                                 O  _
>  CNE  13G7                                     15                    _ 
Z~~~      ~~             IENDCCNRT   _J 3                          __      _    _ ______.___________                                                ._____.________
EI     GRAN ITEOE    1000 LIRE                                                                                                         or        oj 
lES/M E1    0 LIRE
LE INSTATI0F STHE ORAIOS
2                   36333  = 
"RAEIGORC3CONC.ETEI s-o
S      GRANITE   1009 LITRES
WELDED           RIS L_IT
100 LITR°                                                                                                      O
500 LITR 
>       SANTS TON                                                                                             0
|03 LITRES
EUNE 1976                           Oorid E6 o_1722o
O   O                             2         ~        ~~        ~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~ t    5
30                                                                                                                  33~~~~~~~~
.AILWEIGIIT                3                                                             0-
2S9
YEA. OF TRAC~~~ -AY-19291-93-1933                                                                                            93   4           1040-915019-55
LENGTIl OF TUS RAILS                                                                           1                                                         011_ 1
WELDEO RAILS                                                                                                                      Ou0 *à
2                       17-01700
E~~~E                 16095          41
o   w                 ~~~~~         ~~~~~~1104 11
E>     N               1-500
2  CONCRETS           1533
5  GRANITES
1000 LITRES                    8000 I                             0001                     "        0001            .AR. SANI3TONE                                                 00
O         00 LITRES100
>               ~~~~~700 LITRES
590 LITRES
0- SANOSTONE 4- L0T0E
,UNE5 1970
WOEId 6nE-11 7223






I B R D 12751R
A     1                                                  9t                                      ]                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEDiTENNAEAJ  i I
*                                                            f T  IS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LE IA   LIBA
UAHIG0UYA      Ba hoIA                                                               f  e   N MEY                     LHAD
k.  ,  »  ><_ =- ÉGOU t 5>\ r _<4_) \sa&                                                    7
YAKC                                                                                                      NIGERIA S    H.'  ALGERIN
)  w    jZ  ;                          EFKESSE-i fGEF\,>XN   (1)                                                                             PROPOSEVD"REMLLGNMENT
WG u >     0@e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BSA   GUINWAAS                                                                 '| "">
-9DMAKO         N     l1                                                                                                  Na                             JR '\  I'IVO - - AH D
CA.E.
Y,, D o u é k o  la                                                   Boussebli                                                                       T |-  *   AIRPORTS
eréba                  ,/ \uyo     - -                                                                                                      12'un >  t   ABo,;.9rJAaknoouUoc¢  \.>  \\  t   gS3  - ' -   IN TER N A TIO N A L  B O U N D A RIES
tvi Ct , g~~~)"o'a    Sdu3doéY 0                                 L                                                                              N          
g /"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 G                                                                                                   |; R    , A             
IVORY COAST- UPPER VOLTA
,'Be4t           ango/odoo5o                    <~/4 '                                                                                           t  imply dREGIONAL  RAI[W AY   PROJECT
DIEN                                                                  0                      (D~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROPOSED REALIGNMENT
)    0UNgI L                                                           ;                                             - : \ WoKkl8HTRACK RENEWAL
ATZ     K.si                                                          03 ofREPAIR 0F ERODED FILLS
G U 1 N.EÀ-)                         l'a     GHANA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                   SLEEPER RENEVIAL (1 1 year program)
ADDITIONAL BALLASTING
T~~~~ K-si ~~~~~~~~~PAVED ROADS                                                                                   .
Kurnasi ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~ ~ ____   GRAVEL ROADS
N  L                                                                         - - - -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EARTH ROADS
+  AIR/PORTS
-    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o         100         200        300
ANDRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
b /L   /,',darie.7  Lho-v  0777/iS  -70   /0'  -7
rd7VST                                                                                                                                                   m/   endorsement  77 QCCC//t-777'  b/r  7/L
Gulf                     f              -Guinea                                                                            kù0
-                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY  ~19771






I B R D  12846R
jeL 16 t-<>^                  12°                           r             !              4t                             |                          -4r     MAY 1977
-16°      I/ `'-'_ |1.                                                                                                             : 4
MA U R ITANIA   
Diourbel
OAKAR,Thit        S    N    GA                                                                                                                               _
DAK\  S E N E G AL                                                                                 .- 
Kaolack(_              ,*f~~~~~~~~Kvaes
`e ; \ M    A    L                                            I                                               ltMoptl J- I X NIGER
EIANJULe    '         \       Tambacoundai
GAMB I ` .i                -                                                                                 (       U  P P E R  P E   RNIAMEY
-12°     '      GUINEA                  '- hkqn  K                                                           OUAGADOUGOU
j<j BISS                                                                                                                                                            12
G     frN  F A                                                                                                           and
CONAKRYt)    j                                              F\  k Ournse10dcuq:>    *'-                              o                              RESER VO'4   jÀ.>  B E  N    N   r  AIJRI
FREETOWN      SIERRA LEONE                               IV  O  R Fc OedA S T                                    Sko kJ   arakod                   E
' 'LBERÉI A/                     I"                           /T~z i"                      ;
WEST  AFRICA                 'kMONROVIA    ,' .-,          , ~           Tumdi>      I                        -S-             i
REGIONAL RAILWAY PROJECT `" --                                                  I`.                AghovlyIe \            Koforida   CTOONQU  LAGOS
.---.---  RAN                                                       -   _-        dîo
MAJOR ROADS                                                                                    GubIkf
fi      W NATIONAL  CAPITALS
_. -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNOARIES                                                                                                                         ha,I,~~ono h ,pd o
O     100    200    300    400   bO00(  nopo ndanremssown on ail repaaeb the,s
I  KILOMETERS                                                                                                                         IVorid f3wnkai1d ir.rarJfharcL
12°                             8                              40                                                            4
REIOA  RALA  PRJCT                                                                                                   RA



