CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1490 IVC/UV
Loan Agreemeit
(Regional Railway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER ABIDJAN-NIGER
Dated November 14, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1490 IVC/UV
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 14, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER ABIDJAN-NIGER (hereinafter called
the Borrower), an Organisme A caractare industriel et commercial
established by the RAN Agreement (as hereinafter defined) between
the Republic of the Ivory Coast (hereinafter sometimes called the
Ivory Coast) and the Republic of Upper Volta (hereinafter some-
times called Upper Volta).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of Parts A (i), (ii)
and (iii), C, E, F and G of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Upper Volta has also requested the Association to pro-
vide additional assistance towards the financing of the Project
for Part B thereof, and by an agreement of even date herewith
between Upper Volta and the Association (hereinafter defined as
the Development Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equiva-
lent to five million two hundred thousand dollars ($5,200,000)
(hereinafter called the Credit) upon the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
(C) the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta further intend to
contract from the Government of Canada, acting through the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), a loan and a
grant, respectively (hereinafter called the CIDA Financings)
in an aggregate amount of thirty-one million Canadian dollars
(Can$31,000,000), to assist in financing Parts A (iv) and D of the
Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in two agreements
(hereinafter called the CIDA Financing Agreements) to be entered
into between the Ivory Coast and Canada and between Upper Volta
and Canada, respectively;
(D) the Loan will be guaranteed by the Ivory Coast and, in
part, Upper Volta, upon terms and conditions set forth, respec-
tively, in Guarantee Agreements of even date herewith between the
Ivory Coast and Upper Volta, respectively, and the Bank;
(E) Upper Volta will make available to the Borrower the pro-
ceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit Agree-
ment for the purpose of the carrying out of Part B of the Project
by the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(F) the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta will make available to
the Borrower the proceeds of the CIDA Financings for the purpose
of the carrying out of Parts A (iv) and D of the Project by the
Borrower pursuant to subsidiary financing agreements (hereinafter
called the CIDA Subsidiary Financing Agreements) to be entered
into between the Ivory Coast and the Borrower and between Upper
Volta and the Borrower, respectively; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,. as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between Upper Volta and the Association for
the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association,
dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all
agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement
and all schedules to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b) "RAN Agreement" means the Convention entre la
R6publique de C8te d'Ivoire et la R6publique de Haute-Volta
fixant l'organisation et les conditions de fonctionnement du


﻿-3-
Chemin de Fer Abidjan-Niger, dated April 30, 1960, including the
Cahier des charges annexed thereto, and as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(c) "Five-Year Investment Plan" means the plan to be estab-
lished by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.06 (a) of this
Agreement, as such plan may Le updated and extended from time to
time pursuant to Section 4.06 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "Action Plan" means the plan described in Schedule 6 to
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower; and
(e) "CFA francs" and the letters "CFAF" mean the Franc de
la Communautf Financi5re Africaine, the common currency
of the Guarantors and the other members of the West African
Monetary Union.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty three
million dollars ($23,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates spec-
ified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself
the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest aad other
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set
forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for works to be financed out


﻿-4-
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantors of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight per cent (8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, financial, engineering and railways
management practices.
Section 3.02. In order to secure assistance in supervising
the works under Part A of the Project and in carrying out Parts E
(ii), F and G of the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts
and consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity


﻿-5-
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and of the Credit, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and of
the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds.
(c)   The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of carrying out Part E (ii)
of the Project, the Borrower shall take all action necessary to
ensure:
(i) the training of at least six qualified and experienced
technicians of its personnel to serve as instructors
under said Part of the Project; and


﻿-6-
(ii) the timely release of adequate numbers of the
technical personnel of its operational departments
for training purposes.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrover
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times carry on
its operations, manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position and plan its future expansion, all in accordance with
appropriate business, economic, financial, engineering and
railways management practices and under experienced and qualified
management assisted by competent staff.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly take all steps necessary to
obtain, maintain and renew all licenses, powers, privileges,
consents and other rights which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
(c) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, equipment and other property, and make promptly all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with
appropriate engineering and railways management practices.
(d) The Borrower siall not, without the prior concurrence of
the Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property and assets except in the ordinary course of business.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take all such measures
as shall be required to meet the targets set forth in the Action
Plan and shall use its best efforts to obtain from the Guarantors
and any other governmental authority or entity concerned such
approvals, consents and decisions as may be required from time to
time for the purpose of meeting said targets.
(b) Not later than September 30, 1978, the Borrower shall
establish and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, a
transport plan designed to ensure an adequately balanced develop-
ment of passenger and freight traffic and to achieve the opera-
tional targets set forth in Part C of the Action Plan.


﻿-7-
Section 4.04. Not later than September 30 of each year until
completion of the Project, the Borrower shall review its technical
assistance requirements during the next following year, as well as
the arrangements made or to be made in order to meet such require-
ments, in consultation with the Bank.
Section 4.05. (a) Not later than June 30, 1978, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and concurrence, a draft
manpower plan covering the five-year period 1978 through 1982 and
designed to increase the productivity of the Borrower's staff as
required to observe the staffing limits set forth in Part D of the
Action Plan.
(b) The Borrower shall thereafter establish and implement
a five-year program to increase the productivity of its staff,
based on the plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section as
agreed to by the Bank.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the
Bank, not later than December 31, 1977, a draft five-year invest-
ment plan covering the years 1978 through 1982, for review and
comments by the Bank; and (ii) thereafter finalize such draft plan
after review of the comments by the Bank and submit it to its
Board of Directors (Conseil d'Administration) for approval.
(b) Not later than October 31 of each year, commencing in
1978, the Borrower shall review, update and extend by one year
its Five-Year Investment Plan in consultation with the Bank and
thereafter submit such revised Five-Year Investment Plan to its
Board of Directors (Conseil d'Administration) for approval.
Section 4.07. (a) Promptly upon completion of any of the
feasibility studies comprising Part G of the Project, the Borrower
shall review the recommendations of such study in coosultation
with the Ivory Coast and the Bank, and the Borrower shall not
commit any funds towards any investment contemplated by any such
study prior to such consultation.
(b) The feasibility study included in Part G (ii) of the
Project shall be completed and reviewed in consultation with the
Ivory Coast and the Bank not later than June 30, 1978.
Section 4.08. Before entering into any contract regarding the
transportation of manganese ore from Tambao in Upper Volta, the
Borrower shall consult with the Guarantors and the Bank.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) Without any limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) not later than
June 30, 1978, determine the value of its fixed assets on the
basis of prevailing market prices, and thereafter adjust such
valuation in line with such prices at least once during each
subsequent year; (ii) base its cost accounting system and tariff
policy on the valuations of its fixed assets referred to in
sub-paragraph (i) hereof; and (iii) not later than June 30, 1979,
consult with the Bank on the introduction of such valuation as the
basis for all its accounts and financial statements.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than five months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time rea-
sonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertikes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the


﻿-9-
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property, or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year aAter the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) For the year 1978 and each year thereafter,
the Borrower shall prepare an investment budget based on its
Five-Year Investment Plan, providing for all capital investments
to be made by the Borrower during such year, including capital
investments to be carried out by the Borrower on behalf of the
Guarantors, and including a financing plan indicating the sources
of the funds required to carry out such investments.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its review
and comments, the Borrower's proposed investment and operational
budgets for each year, as well as any subsequent proposals for
modifications thereof, not later than 30 days prior to the
consideration of such proposed budgets or modifications by the
Borrower's Board of Directors (Conseil d'Administration) or, in
the case of annual budgets, November 30 preceding such year,
whichever is earlier.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, unless its net cash
generation from operations for the fiscal year next preceding
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to
such incurrence, whichever is greater, shall be not less than 1.5
times the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means any debt of the Borrower
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred, including
debt for the service of which the Borrower is
responsible and debt guaranteed by the Borrower;


﻿- 10 -
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of a loan contract, loan
agreement or other instrument providing for such
debt or the modification of its terms of payment;
(iii) the term "net cash generation from operations"
means the gross operating revenue resulting from
the Borrower's services (excluding any payments to
the Borrower by the Guarantors on account of the
maintenance, renewal or extension of the facilities
of the Borrower pursuant to the RAN Agreement),
adjusted to take account of the Borrower's tariffs
in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the
fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such
revenues relate, less all expenses of operating
and maintaining the facilities of the Borrower,
including taxes, if any, but excluding provisions
for depreciation and debt service requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization of, and interest
and other charges on, debt; and
(v) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
either Guarantor, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt
or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at
a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all such action, including inter alia pro-
posals for tariff increases, as shall be required to enable the
Borrower to obtain a working ratio of not more than 0.78 in 1978
and of not more than 0.75 in each year thereafter.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the working ratio for each year shall be calculated
by relating the working expenses of the Borrower
during such year as the numerator to the Borrower's


﻿- 11 -
operating revenue during such year as the denomi-
nator;
(ii) the term "working expenses" means all expenses
for operating and maintaining the facilities of
the Borrower, including administrative expenses
related thereto and taxes, if any, but excluding
depreciation and debt service requirements as
defined in Section. 5.05 (b) (iv) of this Agreement;
and
(iii) the term "operating revenue" means the gross
operating revenue resulting from the Borrower's
services (excluding any payments to the Borrower
by the Guarantors on account of the maintenance,
renewal or extension of the facilities of the
Borrower pursuant to the RAN Agreement).
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The RAN Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
terminated or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the
operations or financial condition of the Borrower or the perfor-
mance of its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
(b) Upper Volta shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement other than the
payment of principal, interest and other charges due thereunder.
(c) Railway traffic between the territories of the
Guarantors shall have been substantially interrupted for reasons
other than technical reasons, unless such reasons shall be mani-
festly beyond the control of the Guarantors.
(d) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of any Guarantor to withdraw the
proceeds of the CIDA Financing made available
to such Guarantor for the financing of the


﻿- 12 -
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the respective CIDA Financing
Agreement; or
(B) the CIDA Financing made available to the Ivory
Coast shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Guarantors establish to the satisfaction of
the Bank that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Guarantor to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such Agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for Parts A (iv) and D of the
Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
Upper Volta and the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c) or (d)
(i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:


﻿- 13 -
(a) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Development Credit Agreement, except for the effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled; and                   '
(b) that the CIDA Financing Agreements have been duly signed
and all conditions, if any, precedent to initial disbursements
under the CIDA Financing Agreements and the CIDA Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, except for the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement,
have been fulfilled.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that the obligations of the Guarantors
and the Borrower, respectively, pursuant to the respective Guar-
antee Agreements and the Loan Agreement are consistent with their
respective obligations pursuant to the RAN Agreement.
Section 7.03. The date March 14, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 14 -
For the Borrower:
Rfgie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger
B.P. 1394
Abidjan
Ivory Coast
Cable address:                      Telex:
REGIE CHEMINS DE FER                FERDIA 564
ABIDJAN-NIGER                     Abidjan
Abidjan
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Xavier de la RenaudiAre
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa
REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER ABIDJAN-NIGER
By /s/ Timothfe Ahoua N'Guetta
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Railway equipment           2,270,000     100% of foreign
and materials for                          expenditures
Parts A (i) through
(iii) of the Project
(steel sleepers, fas-
tenings and turnouts
with spare parts)
(2) Railway equipment           1,510,000     100% of foreign
for Part C of the                          expenditures
Project (gang cars,
track inspection
cars, trailers,
bulldozers, spare
parts for tamping
machines, and a
sleeper pressing
machine)
(3) Civil works and wooden      6,440,000     80% (representing
and concrete sleepers                      the estimated
for Part A (i) of                          foreign expendi-
the Project                               ture component)
(4) Construction of sta-       1,620,000      60% (representing
tions and ballast                         the estimated
production for Part                        foreign expendi-
A (i) of the Project                       ture component)
(5) Track laying and             440,000      20% (representing
welding under Parts                       the estimated
A (i) through (iii)                       foreign expendi-
of the Project                            ture component)


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(6) Transportation of             150,000      50% (representing
railway equipment                          the estimated
and materials for                          foreign expendi-
Parts A (i) through                        ture component)
(iii) of the Project
(7) Signalling and                400,000      72% (representing
telecommunications                         the estimated
works for Part A (i)                       foreign expendi-
of the Project                             ture component)
(8) Geotechnical services         140,000      25% (representing
and experts' services                      the estimated
for supervision of                         foreign expendi-
works under Parts A (i)                    ture component)
and (ii) of the Project
(9) Civil works under             270,000      56% (representing
Part E (i) of the                          the estimated
Project                                    foreign expendi-
ture component)
(10) Equipment and                 540,000      100% of foreign
furniture for                              expenditures and
Part E (i) of                              75% of local ex-
the Project                                penditures on ac-
count of the pur-
chase price of
locally procured
items (respresent-
ing the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
(11) Experts services              250,000      80% (representing
for Part E (ii) of                         the estimated
the Project                                foreign expendi=
ture comp,onent)


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(12) Consultants' ser-          1,330,000      85% (representing
vices for Parts                           the estimated
F and G of the                            foreign expendi-
Project                                   ture component)
(13) Interest and other         3,000,000      Amounts due
charges on the
Loan accrued on or
before October 31,
1980
(14) Unallocated                4,640,000
TOTAL       23,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than either Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than either Guarantor; provided, however, that if the currency of
either Guarantor is also that of another country from the terri-
tory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of either Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of either Guarantor.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, either Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the


﻿- 18 -
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000, may
be made in respect of Category (12) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after August 1, 1977,
for the carrying out of Part G (ii) of the Project.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order tha.
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in carrying
out part of its renewal and investment program 1975-1980 in
respect of the period from January 1, 1978, to December 31, 1980,
and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Track Improvement and Renewal in the Ivory Coast
(i) Reconstruction of the Bouak6-Pftionara section
of about 89 km on a new alignment, including con-
struction of new stations.
(ii) Renewal o" about 4 km of track between Ferkesse-
dougou and Ouangolodougou, through installation
of 36 kg/m rails and new sleepers.
(iii) Provision and installation of about 60 turnouts.
(iv) Provision of rails for Parts A (i) and (ii) hereof.
Part B:   Track Improvement and Renewal in Upper Volta
(i) Renewal of about 40 km of track from pk 923 to
pk 963 through installation of new sleepers.
(ii) Reinforcement of about 15 earth fills, mainly on
the Banfora-Koudougou section and requiring, in
the aggregate, about 180,000 m3 of filling mate-
rial.
(iii) Additional ballasting of about 100 km of track
between Bobo-Dioulasso and B6r4ba requiring
about 50,000 m3 of ballast.
Part C:   Track Maintenance Equipment
Replacement and provision of additional track mainte-
nance equipment, including 6 gang cars, 8 light inspec-
tion cars, 3 heavy inspection cars, 15 trailers, 2
bulldozers, 1 sleeper pressing machine and spare parts
for tamping machines.


﻿- 20 -
Part D:   Motive Power and Rolling Stock
Provision of 18 mainline diesel-electric locomotives and
about 210 boxcars.
Part E:   Technical Training
(i) Construction or expansion, equipping and furnishing
of training facilities in Abidjan, Bouakf and
Bobo-Dioulasso.
(ii) Strengthening of the Borrower's training department
to enable it to carry out a two-year (1978-1979)
training program for the technical personnel of the
Borrower designed to improve staff productivity,
operational efficiency and quality of service
through training of about 3,000 skilled laborers
and supervisors.
Part F:   Management and Operations of the Borrower
Improvement of the management and operations of the
Borrower, including in particular training of its
management personnel and strengthening of its planning,
statistical, operational, administrative and personnel
services.
Part G:   Studies
Carrying out of feasibility studies in respect of:
(i) the improvement of the Borrower's marshalling
yard and rolling stock maintenance facilities at
Abidjan;
(ii) the realignment of the Pftionara-Tafire section;
and
(iii) the installation of a double track on the Anyama-
Agboville and the Agboville-Bouak& sections,
respectively.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning May 1, 1982
through   May 1, 1994                         885,000
On November 1, 1994                                 875,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this columm represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                            1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.20%
More thar eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.05%
More than fifteen years before
maturity                                    8.00%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines); such procurement shall be on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines, except as provided in Part B hereof.
2.   Invitations to bid for all contracts: (i) for railway equip-
ment for Parts A and B of the Project; and (ii) civil works under
Part A of the Project, shall be advertised in not less than three
newspapers or technical and trade publications of wide interna-
tional circulation.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Part A (i) of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts: (i) for civil works and ballast for Part B of the
Project; and (ii) for civil works, equipment and furniture for
Part E (i) of the Project may be procured on the basis of compet-
itive bidding advertised in Abidjan and Ouagadougou, without
notification of diplomatic and trade representatives as described
in paragraph 1.2 of Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    Contracts for spare parts for existing track maintenance
equipment and for fastenings for concrete sleepers may be procured
on the basis of price quotations from traditional suppliers of
such items to the Borrower; provided, however, that the price of
the contracts so procured shall, in the aggregate, not exceed
$2,000,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state


﻿- 24 -
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
1.   Civil works consisting of track laying and ballasting may
be carried out by force account by the Borrower.
2.   The production and transportation of ballast, the transporta-
tion of track material and signalling and telecommunications works
may be carried out by the services of the Borrower.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said proce-
dure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequali-
fied bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for pre-
qualification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for
its comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's
decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any fur-
ther modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 25 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed coples of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly aftez its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its exe-
cution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Modifications to General Conditions
For the purposes of this Loan Agreement and the Guarantee
Agreements (as hereinafter defined), the provisions of the Gen-
eral Conditions are modified as follows:
(a) Wherever the words "Guarantor" and "Guarantee Agreement"
appear (except in those provisions modified in this Schedule), the
words "Guarantors" and "Guarantee Agreements", respectively, are
substituted therefor, and all such grammatical changes as the con-
text shall require as a consequence of such substitutions are
made.
(b) Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is deleted and replaced by
the following new paragraph:
"5. The terms Ivory Coast Guarantee Agreement and
Upper Volta Guarantee Agreement mean the separate agreements
between the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta, respectively, and
the Bank providing for the guarantee, in whole or in "art, of
the Loan, as such Agreements may be amended from time to
time; and such terms include these General Conditions as
thus made applicable, all agreements supplemental to such
Agreements and all schedules to such Agreements; and the term
Guarantee Agreements means the Ivory Coast Guarantee Agree-
ment and the Upper Volta Guarantee Agreement and includes any
one or both of such Agreements as the context may require."
(c) Paragraph 7 of Section 2.01 is deleted and replaced
by the following new paragraph:
"7. The term Guarantors means the Ivory Coast and
Upper Volta and includes any one or both of them as the
context may require, and the term Guarantor means either
the Ivory Coast or Upper Volta."
(d) Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is deleted and replaced
by the following new paragraph:
"12. The term "external debt", as applied to r ebts
of the Ivory Coast or Upper Volta, as the case may be, means
any debt payable in any medium other than currency of the
Guarantors, whether such debt is or may become payable


﻿- 27 -
absolutely or at the option of the creditor in such other
medium."
(e) The following new paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"19. The term Ivory Coast means the Republic of the
Ivory Coast and the term Upper Volta means the Republic of
Upper Volta."
(f) Subparagraph (f) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced
by the following new subparagraph:
"(f) Either one or both of the Guarantors: (i) shall
have been suspended from membership in or ceased to be a
member of the Bank; or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member
of the International Monetary Fund."
(g) Section 10.02 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 10.02. Obligations of the Guarantors. The
obligations of the Ivory Coast under the Ivory Coast Guaran-
tee Agreement and of Upper Volta under the Upper Volta
Guarantee Agreement shall be several obligations and shall
not be discharged except by performance and then only to the
extent of such performance. Such respective obligations shall
not be subject to any prior notice to, demand upon or action
against the Borrower or the Ivory Coast or Upper Volta or to
any prior notice to or demand upon the Ivory Coast or Upper
Volta with regard to any default by either Guarantor or by
the Borrower, and shall not be impaired by any of the follow-
ing: any extension of time, forbearance or concession given
to either Guarantor or to the Borrower; any assertion of, or
failure to assert, or delay in asserting, any right, power or
remedy against either Guarantor or the Borrower or in respect
of any security for the Loan; any modification or amplifica-
tion of the provisions of the Loan Agreement or the Ivory
Coast Guarantee Agreement or the Upper Volta Guarantee Agree-
ment contemplated by the respective terms thereof; any fail-
ure of the Borrower to comply with any requirement of any
law, regulation or order of the Ivory Coast or of Upper Volta
or of any political subdivision or agency of Ivory Coast or
of Upper Volta."
(h)  Paragraph (c) of Section 10.04 is deleted and replaced
by the followihg new paragraph:


﻿- 28 -
"The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitra-
tors appointed as follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed
by the Bank; a second arbitrator shall be appointed by the
Borrower and the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta; and the third
abritrator (hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) shall be
appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not
agree, by the President of the International Court of Justice
or, failing appointment by him, by the Secretary-General
of the United Nations; provided that if the Borrower, the
Ivory Coast and Upper Volta shall not agree on the appoint-
ment of a common arbitrator, such common arbitrator shall be
appointed by the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta only and pro-
vided further that, if the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta shall
not agree on such common arbitrator, the Ivory Coast and
Upper Volta shall each appoint one arbitrator. In the event
that the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta, shall so appoint two
separate arbitrators, the Bank, on its part, shall appoint
two arbitrators, and the four arbitrators so appointed shall,
together with the Umpire appointed as provided above, consti-
tute the Arbitral Tribunal. If any party shall fail to
appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by
the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance
with this Section shall resign, die or become unable to act,
a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner
as herein prescribed for the appointment .of the original
arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers and
duties of such original arbitrator."
(i)  Section 11.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 11.03. Action on Behalf of the Guarantors.
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any docu-
ments required or permitted to be executed, under the Ivory
Coast Guarantee Agreement on behalf of the Ivory Coast or
under the Upper Volta Guarantee Agreement on behalf of Upper
Volta may be taken or executed by the representative of the
Ivory Coast or Upper Volta, as the case may be, designated in
the respective Guarantee Agreement for the purposes of this
Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing by him.
Any modification or amplification of the provisions of any of
the Guarantee Agreements may be agreed to on behalf of the
Ivory Coast or Upper Volta, as the case may be, by written
instrument executed on behalf of the Ivory Coast or Upper


﻿- 29 -
Volta, as the case may be, by the representative so desig-
nated in such Guarantee Agreement or by any person thereunto
authorized in writing by him; provided that, in the opinion
of such representative, such modification or amplification
is reasonable in the circumstances and will not substantially
increase the obligations of the Ivory Coast or Upper Volta,
as the case may be, under such Guarantee Agreement. The Bank
may accept the execution by such representative or other
person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in
the opinion of such representative any modification or ampli-
fication of the provisions of such Guarantee Agreement
effected by such instrument is reasonable in the circum-
stances and will not substantially increase the obligations
of the Ivory Coast or Upper Volta, as the case may be,
thereunder."


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 6
Action Plan
A.   Purpose of the Plan
The Action Plan sets forth the specific targets to be
achieved by the Borrower for the purpose of ensuring satisfactory
growth of its traffic volume, efficient utilization of its rolling
stock, minimizing the cost of maintaining and repairing its
equipment, and improving the productivity of its personnel.
1978   1979   1980  1981   1982
B.   Freight Traffic Targets      560    610    660    710    750
(million net ton-km)*
C.   Operational Targets
1.   Number and types of
mainline locomotives
for long-distance
service (as of Decem-
ber 31 of each year)
CC1000                   18     12      4      2      0
CC1500                    8      8      4      2      0
CC2400                    3      0      0      0      0
B-BBl800 (or equiv-      22     31     40     43     46
alent)
TOTAL                51    51     48     47     46
2. Availability of mainline
locomotives (%)
CC1000                   75     75     --     --     --
CC1500                   65     70     --     --     --
B-BBl800 (or equiv-      75     77     80     81     82
alent)
3. Average gross load
per locomotive**             500    550    600    600    600
4. Average monthly mileage
of the B-BB 1800 locomo-
tives (or equivalent) (km) 7,600  7,800 7,900 8,000 8,000
Excluding service traffic and transportation of empty
containers and tank cars.
Total annual gross ton km/total annual freight and service
train km, excluding express trains.


﻿- 31 -
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
5. Total annual mileage of
mainline locomotives
(1000 km)                   4,200  4,000  3,950  4,200   4,400
6. Average mileage per
mainline locomotive
breakdown
B-BB1800 (km)         30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 65,000
7. Rolling stock availabil-
ity (%)
Freight cars              96     96      96     96     96
Passenger coaches         95     95     95      95     95
(2nd class)
8. Turnaround of freight cars
(days)
Cattle wagons             11     10      9       9      9
Multi-purpose wagons      17     16     15      15     15
Ordinary boxcars          11     10      9.5     9      9
Gondolas                   6      6      6       6      6
Tank cars                 11     11     10       9      9
9. Average daily mileage of
freight cars (km)              82     82     85      87     90
10. Average load of freight
cars (tons)
Cattle wagons              9      9      9       9      9.5
Boxcars (northbound)      21     21.8   22.4   22.4    22.4
Boxcars (southbound)      16.5   16.5   17     17     17
All freight cars          20.5   21     21      21     21.5
11. Average daily mileage of
passenger coaches (km)
2nd class coaches
and railcar trailers     335    350.   375    390    400
2nd class coaches
included in express
trains                   300    400    500    550    600


﻿- 32 -
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
D.   Staffing
Permanent and temporary
staff as of December 31
of each year (excluding
staff engaged temporarily
for specific works)
- Operations department     1,130 1,190 1,210 1,240 1,260
- Motive power and rolling
stock department          1,742 1,740 1,740 1,780 1,820
- Permanent way and tele-
communications            1,350 1,310 1,280 1,300 1,330
- Civil works department      218    220    220    220    220
- Sleeping cars and
hotels department           280    280    280    280     280
- Administration              480    500   .510    520    530
TOTAL             5,200  5,240  5,240  5,340  5,440


