Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5082 
Operation Name 
LS -2ND POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT AND 
GRANT 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%);Health (20%);General 
industry and trade sector (20%);General education sector (20%); 
Project ID 
P112817 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry Of Finance and Development Planning 
Date PID Prepared 
December 21, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 7, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
March 23, 2010 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Lesotho is a small, landlocked country, with a population of around 1.8 million.
 
It has close 
economic ties with South Africa through remittances from miners and other workers employed 
in South Africa; customs revenues from SACU; and sale of water to South Africa.  Many of its 
key macroeconomic determinants are strongly influenced by the monetary union and the pegged 
exchange rate with South Africa under the Common Monetary Area (CMA), membership in the 
Southern African Development Community (SADC), and the Southern Africa Customs Union 
(SACU). 
 
Lesotho’s economy has undergone a structural change over the last 15 years. 
It has involved 
a
shift in the drivers of production and consumption from subsistence agriculture and receipt of 
remittances toward modern manufacturing and natural resource exports and the service sector.
 
The main growth engine has been the industrial sector, followed by the public sector, which has 
used increased nontax revenues to expand access to public services. For many households, this 
structural shift has brought higher and more secure incomes.  
However, a substantial minority 
of households, mostly in rural areas, have not benefitted much from economic growth and 
structural change.
 For some households, the loss of income from remittances combined with 
the decreasing natural resources base for agriculture has increased poverty, vulnerability, and 
exclusion. By far the most important livelihood and income risk, however, is the high prevalence 
of HIV/AIDS. 
 
The global crisis is affecting Lesotho
 through the following main channels: (i) textiles - 
economic slowdown in the United States (Lesotho’s main export destination for garments) has 
negatively impacted Lesotho’s textile industry, leading to job losses; (ii) mining - weak prices 
for diamonds and global credit crunch have resulted in reduced production and export of 
diamonds; (iii) SACU revenues - economic slowdown in the South African economy is 
negatively impacting SACU revenues; (iv) worker remittances - weakening of the South African 
economy is also impacting worker remittances as mining jobs are lost in South Africa. 
 
Page  2
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The operation aims to support Government’s response to the potential impact of the global 
financial crisis on its growth prospects by contributing (i) to strengthen the business environment 
and promoting economic diversification leading to broad-based and employment-generating 
growth, (ii) enhancing the effectiveness of public expenditures and sharpening the strategic focus 
of the budget; and (iii) improving service delivery in key sectors.  It will help generate fiscal 
space, at a time when revenues are declining and access to finance is not easy.  The PRSC will 
support and protect long term reforms while the Government tackles the impact of the financial 
crisis.  It will also play a catalytic role to furthering the policy dialogue, particularly on the 
budget which is the Government’s key policy instrument to respond to the impact of the global 
economic crisis. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
PRSC-2 is being designed and implemented within a harmonized framework for the provision of 
budget support by its key Development Partners.  It comprises a multi-year Performance 
Assessment Framework (PAF) and a review process aimed at reducing transaction costs for the 
Government and the cooperating partners.  Significant progress has been made by the 
Government in implementing its reform program as identified in the PAF supported by its 
Development Partners.  The Government’s main instrument in sustaining a healthy 
macroeconomic environment is its fiscal policy.  And GOL has done a good job in creating a 
healthy fiscal balance so far.  The expansionary Budget presented for 2009/10 raised concerns 
about fiscal sustainability.  However, GOL has reverted back to the budget ceilings approved by 
Cabinet in December 2008.  With the adoption of these revised budget ceilings and a review of 
the wage bill, a small deficit of about 1 percent of GDP is envisaged for 2009/10.   
 
4. Financing 
 
The financing amount is US$25 million, including US$10 million from the Crisis Response 
Window, of which US$5 million is a grant. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The institutional arrangements for the implementation of the operation fall within the framework 
of the Joint Budget Support (JBS).  The proposed arrangements seek to ensure oversight and buy 
in at the political level. A dedicated team of officials from Department of Development Planning 
in the MFDP and the Bureau of Statistics will monitor progress in implementation of the overall 
budget support program.  This team acts as the Secretariat for JBS implementation and 
monitoring.  At the Ministerial level, dedicated teams of relevant officials responsible for 
implementation and monitoring of activities
1
will monitor implementation of PAF activities and 
collect data to verify achievement of PAF indicators and report to the Secretariat.  The JBS 
Secretariat is headed by Department of Development Planning and will report, on a quarterly 
basis, to the Improvement and Reform Steering Committee (IRSC). Representatives of the DPs 
1
These teams are from within the ministries responsible for implementation of the PAF activities 
Page  3
are members of the IRSC, ensuring that they are also aware of the progress being made in 
implementation in between the annual joint reviews. The Chairperson of the IRSC will, in turn, 
report, through Minister, MFDP, to the Budget Committee.  The PAF progress report will be 
submitted by the Principal Secretary, MFDP to the Committee of Principal Secretaries as they 
are responsible for delivering on these indicators. This will be the forum for initial discussions 
towards the required remedial actions where problems exist.  The Principal Secretary, MFDP, 
will also pursue these discussions bilaterally with affected Ministries/Agencies for 
implementation of the required actions. Briefings to development partners envisaging budget 
support will be provided at regular intervals. 
 
The PAF will be the basis for monitoring and evaluation of the program. An annual progress 
report submitted by end-October of each year will be followed by a joint annual review of 
progress, based on the PAF, to analyze progress towards agreed triggers and targets. The main 
objective of this review is to come to a joint view on performance, which will serve as the basis 
for commitments for the following financial year. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
 
The operation
 will support Government’s response to the potential impact of the global financial 
crisis on its growth prospects by contributing to strengthen the business environment and 
promoting economic diversification leading to broad-based and employment-generating growth.  
By supporting the improvement in the quality of data, decision making by policy makers is 
expected to be based on reliable information.   
 
It will enhance the oversight of public finances and the procurement and financial management 
systems, thereby increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of public sector spending, which 
currently accounts for about 50 percent of GDP. 
 
Reforms supporting service delivery at the central and local level will improve the quality of life 
of the Basotho people. 
 
The PRSC will also contribute to the harmonization agenda through a greater alignment with key 
donors and Government systems. It is designed to strengthen and support domestic 
accountability, reduce transaction costs and develop and use Lesotho’s own systems rather than 
setting up and using parallel donor systems.  A unified PAF will be used by Government and all 
its General Budget Support (GBS) partners to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the 
program, in line with the budget timetable. 
 
Risks 
 
The country faces two main risks.  
First
,
weak global economic conditions could create short 
term macroeconomic stress by decelerating growth as demand for its key export (garments to the 
US) suffers and creating fiscal pressures as SACU revenues decline due to a slowdown in the 
South African economy.   The ongoing export diversification efforts and further strengthening of 
Page  4
the fiscal framework and public finance management under the PRSC will help mitigate these 
risks.  Predictable and timely budget support through the PRSC series and from other 
development partners will also help mitigate the external risks;  
Second
,
limited Government administrative capacity and coordination among relevant central 
and local agencies could lead to delays in the implementation of key reform measures 
particularly related to service delivery.  To mitigate this potential coordination failure, 
implementation arrangements for the PRSC seek to ensure oversight and buy-in at the political 
level.  Capacity building initiatives underway with support from other Development Partners 
have gathered momentum and will also mitigate this risk.  
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
The poverty and social impacts of the reforms supported by the operation are expected to be 
favorable overall.  The benefits are expected from direct job creation in the private sector and 
improvement in service delivery, particularly to the poor in rural areas.  Jobs in the non-farming 
sector, in particular in manufacturing and petty trading are becoming an important source of 
income.  Improved business environment and better industrial infrastructure are expected to 
boost the private sector and create jobs.  The operation supports reforms that will create more 
wage jobs in the private sector. 
 
The increase in the program of support to the OVCs is expected to lead to an overall reduction in 
the social burden associated with caring for the OVCs.  The creation of new sites providing ARV 
treatment is expected to increase the coverage of ART to affected people.  Most of the 
beneficiaries are expected to be under-privileged who will be able to lead a better life with the 
availability of treatment. 
 
Increasing access to secondary schools for the large cohort of primary school leavers (as a result 
of the completion of the free primary school cycle) will provide better income earning 
opportunities to these students when they enter the labor market. 
 
Environment Aspects 
 
The program is not expected to have any direct significant environmental consequences.  
Infrastructure improvements to enhance the quality and coverage of primary and secondary 
education do not involve the construction of new schools immediately. Needed improvements 
will take place in existing schools.  The Ministry of education, in collaboration with the National 
Environment Secretariat (NES), has prepared the necessary environmental instruments in 
anticipation of potential adverse impacts from the construction of these schools. 
 
Improvements in the business climate are likely, however, to lead to increased business activity, 
some of which may have potentially negative impacts on the environment, such as those 
involved in industrial production.  It is envisaged that the establishment of the National 
Environmental Council will strengthen the institutional framework and enhance NES’ role in 
monitoring and enforcement of environmental legislation in the country. 
Page  5
8. Contact point 
Contact:  Preeti Arora,  
Title: Sr Country Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-4097 
Email: Parora@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
wb21422 
C:\Users\wb21422\Documents\word\DOC\Lesotho\PID - Appraisal Stage PRSC2.doc 
9/22/2009 3:48:00 PM
 
