                                                   CONFORMED COPY



                                             GRANT NUMBER H556-LS
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 4706-LS




     Financing Agreement
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit and Grant (PRSCG-2))


                           between


                 KINGDOM OF LESOTHO


                             and


     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                     Dated April 24, 2010
                                                            GRANT NUMBER H556-LS
                                                            CREDIT NUMBER 4706-LS

                              FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated April 24, 2010, entered into between KINGDOM OF
LESOTHO (“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

              ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant and a credit (collectively,
        “Financing?) in the following amounts:

        (a)     an amount equivalent to three million three hundred thousand Special
                Drawing Rights (SDR 3,300,000) (“Grant?); and

        (b)     an amount equivalent to twelve million nine hundred thousand Special
                Drawing Rights (SDR 12,900,000) (“Credit?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
                                          -2-



2.05.   The Payment Dates are August 1 and February 1 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
        repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is the Dollar.

                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01    The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                of the Program or any action taken under the Program.

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   An Additional Event of Suspension shall occur if a situation has arisen which
        shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
        carried out.

4.02.   An Additional Event of Acceleration shall occur if the event specified in
        Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days
        after notice of the event has been given by the Association to the Recipient.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: the
        Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying
        out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
        framework.

5.02    The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.
                                         -3-



               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s minister responsible for
        finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

               Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
               P.O. Box 395
               Maseru 100
               Lesotho

               Facsimile:

               (266) 22 310 157
               (266) 22 310 622

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable address:           Telex:                Facsimile:

               INDEVAS                  248423(MCI)           1-202-477-6391
               Washington, D.C.
                                        -4-



         AGREED at Washington, D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.



                       KINGDOM OF LESOTHO



                       By
                                                                 /s/ Timothy Thahane
                                                            Authorized Representative




                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                       By

                                                                       /s/ Ruth Kagia
                                                            Authorized Representative
                                          -5-



                                    SCHEDULE 1

               Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.     Actions under the Program

A.      Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Recipient under
        the Program include the following:

        1.     The 2009/2010 macroeconomic framework, which reflects the budgetary
               ceilings approved by the Cabinet in 2008 and establishes that the
               Recipient’s fiscal deficit will not exceed 3% of its GDP , has been
               adopted by the Cabinet.

        2.     The services offered by the One-Stop Business Facilitation Center
               (OBFC) established by the Recipient’s Ministry of Trade and Industry,
               Cooperatives and Marketing have been extended to include the
               processing and issuance of rebate certificates, residence and work
               permits, and industrial licenses.

        3.     Target sites and related investments to enhance industrial infrastructure
               in the Recipient’s territory have been identified and approved by the
               Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and Development Planning.

        4.     Budget Framework Papers have been prepared by all the Recipient’s line
               ministries for 2009/2010 and 2011/2012 and submitted to the Recipient’s
               Ministry of Finance and Development Planning, as evidenced by the
               issuance of the National Budget Framework Paper and Proposed
               Ceilings for 2009/2010 and 2011/2012.

        5.     The Recipient’s public accounts for the financial years 2004/2005,
               2005/2006 and 2006/2007 have been submitted to the Recipient’s Office
               of the Auditor General for auditing.

        6.     The Recipient’s public accounts for the financial years 2004/2005,
               2005/2006 and 2006/2007 have been audited and submitted to the
               Recipient’s Parliament.

        7.     The capacity to deliver antiretroviral treatment in the Recipient’s
               territory through various medical facilities (including, hospitals, clinics,
               governmental and/or public/private partnership facilities) has improved
               such that the number of eligible persons receiving such treatment has
               increased.
                                           -6-



        8.      A three-year plan for the Recipient’s education sector aimed at
                increasing access to secondary schools, which includes detailed costing
                based on the planned development of such sector, has been produced and
                endorsed by the relevant stakeholders.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
        accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. Each of the Credit and the Grant is allocated
        in a single tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals. The
        allocation of the amounts of the Credit and Grant to this end is set out in the table
        below:

                                         Amount of the Credit          Amount of the
                                               Allocated               Grant Allocated
                 Allocation               (expressed in SDR)         (expressed in SDR)

         (1) Single Withdrawal                 12,900,000                 3,300,000
             Tranche
         TOTAL AMOUNT                          12,900,000                 3,300,000

C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

        No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
        Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient;
        and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
        framework.

D.      Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise
        agree:

        1.      all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
                Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable
                to the Association; and

        2.      the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
                Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
                Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
                Association.
                                      -7-



E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
     determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
     payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
     from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
     the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
     cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2011.
                                        -8-



                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                Repayment Schedule

                                                      Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                                 repayable
              Date Payment Due                         (expressed as a percentage)*

On each August 1 and February 1:

commencing August 1, 2020 to and including                          1%
February 1, 2030

commencing August 1, 2030 to and including                          2%
February 1, 2050


* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of
the General Conditions.
                                          -9-



                                      APPENDIX

Section I.      Definitions

1.      “Cabinet? means the Recipient’s cabinet of ministers.

2.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national
                or international financing institution or agency other than the Association
                or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association
                or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant
                or loan;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
                by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
                (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
                revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
                Recipient:

                       Group            Sub-group               Description of Item
                        112                             Alcoholic beverages
                        121                             Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                        tobacco refuse
                         122                            Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                                        or not containing tobacco
                                                        substitutes)
                         525                            Radioactive and associated
                                                        materials
                         667                            Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                                        stones, unworked or worked
                         718              718.7         Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                        thereof; fuel elements (cartridges),
                                                        non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
                         728              728.43        Tobacco processing machinery
                         897              897.3         Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                                        group metals (except watches and
                                                        watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                        silversmiths’ wares (including set
                                                        gems)
                         971                            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                                        gold ores and concentrates)
                                        - 10 -



       (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
               consumption;

       (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
               which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
               agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

       (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
               Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
               United Nations; and

       (f)     with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
               collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
               Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
               Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
               action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
               occur.

3.     “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
       General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended
       through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
       Appendix.

4.     “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
       promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
       referred to in the letter dated February 24, 2010 from the Recipient to the
       Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the
       Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the
       Program during its execution.

5.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
       category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
       Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for
Credits and Grants?, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as
follows:

1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
       Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
                                       - 11 -



2.   Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
     in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
     accordingly.

3.   Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

             “Section 2.05. Refinancing Preparation Advance

                     If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of
             the proceeds of the Financing of an advance made by the Association or
             the Bank (“Preparation Advance?), the Association shall, on behalf of the
             Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the
             Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and
             outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal
             from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if
             any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay the
             amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall
             cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.?

4.   Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
     Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
     Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

5.   Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
     and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

             “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

             …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
             invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
             under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
             shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.?

7.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

             Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

             …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
             furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
             Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                                     - 12 -



            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing.

8.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

            “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
            support of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project?
            throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
            “Program?.

     (d)    The term “Program Preparation Advance? (renamed as such pursuant to
            subparagraph 8(c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance? and
            its definition is modified to read as follows:

            “‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing
            Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.?
