 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14803

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                             Date Posted: 09/25/2015

               Country: Lesotho
                        Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                      Yes    No
                           How many operations were planned for the                                 3
                          series?
                           How many were approved ?                                                 3
             Series ID: S122783
       First Project ID : P122783                                                Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name: Ls - Third Poverty          Project Costs (US$M):                      18.0                  17.76
                          Reduction Support
                          Credit
 L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                       18.0                  17.76
      Sector Board:       Economic Policy          Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                   05/03/2011
                                                              Closing Date:             01/15/2012           01/15/2012
          Sector(s):     Central  government  administration (50%); Health (17%);  General  industry and trade sector
                         (17%); Other social services (16%)
         Theme(s):       Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (50%); Regulation and
                         competition policy (17%); HIV/AIDS (17%); Social safety nets (16%)
    Second Project ID :P112817                                                    Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name:    Ls -2nd  Poverty           Project Costs (US$M):                      25.0               24.40
                         Reduction Support
                         Credit
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                      25.0               24.40
     Sector Board:       Economic Policy             Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                   03/30/2010
           Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:             03/31/2011           03/31/2011
          Sector(s):     Central  government  administration (44%), General  industry and trade sector (23%),
                         Secondary education (11%), Primary education (11%), Health (11%)
         Theme(s):       Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (43%), HIV/AIDS (15%),
                         Regulation and competition policy (14%), Education for all (14%), Infrastructure services for
                         private sector development (14%)
       Third Project ID :P102302                                                  Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name: Poverty Reduction             Project Costs (US$M):                      15.9               14.49
                         Support Credit
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                      15.9               14.49
     Sector Board:       Economic Policy             Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                   05/22/2008
           Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:             03/31/2009           03/31/2009
          Sector(s):     Central government administration (50%), Health (20%), Secondary education (10%),
                         General industry and trade sector (10%), Sub-national government administration (10%)
         Theme(s):       Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (33%), Education for all (17%),
                         HIV/AIDS (17%), Trade facilitation and market access (17%), Managing for development
                         results (16%)
Evaluator:                Panel Reviewer:        ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Nestor Ntungwanayo       Clay Wescott             Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The overarching objective of the PRSC (Poverty Reduction Support Credit and Grant) Program was to contribute
    to the Government's medium-term development objectives as set out in successive country development
    strategies, which evolved during the program period. While there were changes in emphasis over time to reflect
    changing Government priorities, the series supported four policy areas as follows: "i) fiscal consolidation and
    macroeconomic stability ,(ii) creating a conducive environment for private sector-led growth; (iii) improving public
    expenditure management and the fiduciary framework; and (iv) improving access and quality of basic services"
    (Program Documents for PRSC 1-3, Grant and Program Summary ).

    Since the program objective is broad, the program performance will be assessed against the progress made
    under the above-mentioned four policy areas.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    Four policy areas were supported by the program:
    (i) Fiscal and macroeconomic consolidation and stabilization : While policies in this the area underpinned the
    entire program, they gained more importance during the second and third PRSCs, more specifically in the wake
    of the global financial crisis. Key policy goals were: (i) the adoption of a macroeconomic framework reflecting
    budgetary ceilings in order to stabilize the fiscal deficit, (ii) the use of non-SACU (South African Customs Union)
    deficit as one measure of fiscal sustainability, and (iii) the use of a review of capital projects to consolidate the
    public investment program. There were three prior actions: (i) a medium term macroeconomic and fiscal
    framework prepared by the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning (MFDP) for the central Government
    budget; (ii) the macroeconomic framework for 2009/10 reflecting ceilings approved by Cabinet, with the fiscal
    deficit not exceeding 3 percent of GDP adopted by Cabinet; and (iii) the budget framework papers were prepared
    by all ministries for 2009/10 - 2011/12 and submitted to the MFDP.

    (ii) Governance, public expenditure management and fiduciary framework : Key targeted policy outcomes were
    the following: (i) Planning, budgeting and spending in a responsive way to the PRS, (ii) M&E of government
    finances and service delivery, (iii) Improving accountability for government finances and service delivery, (iv)
    Upgrading public procurement, (v) Improving financial reporting, and (vi) Strengthening external audit and
    oversight. This policy area includes: an Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) was piloted in six line
    ministries; the MFDP adopted an Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) implementation
    plan incorporating issues relating to public finance management (PFM), ICT, change management, project and
    contract management, and human resource management; Public Procurement Regulations were adopted by
    Cabinet; Budget framework papers prepared by all ministries for 2009/10 - 2011/12 and submitted to MFDP;
    Public accounts for the financial years 2004/5, 2005/6, and 2006/07 were audited by the Office of the Auditor
    General and submitted to Parliament; Budgets for 2011/12 for all twenty seven budget heads loaded on to IFMIS
    to strengthen planning, execution and monitoring of the budget; Public accounts for the financial year 2007/8
    audited by the Office of the Auditor General and submitted to Parliament, and records for 2008/09 submitted to
    the Auditor General.

    (iii) Creating a conducive environment for private sector -led growth: Key policy outcomes were the following: (i)
    Simplifying business environment, (ii) Enhancing industrial infrastructure, and (iii) Strengthening evidence-based
    decision making. It includes the following prior actions: One Stop Shop established by the Ministry of Trade and
    Industry and operational for facilitation of the issuance of manufacturing and trading licenses and processing
    import permits and export visas; extension of One Stop Shop (One-Stop Business Facilitation Center) services to
    include rebate certificates, residence and work permits, and industrial licenses; based on the ongoing Investment
    Infrastructure studies, target sites and related investments identified and approved by the MFDP; initiated
    preparation of a National Strategy for the Development of Statistics (NSDS) based on Paris 21 Principles,
    including: i) Inception report on the design of NSDS; ii) stakeholder consultations on the NSDS; iii) situation
    analysis in key line ministries; and companies Bill submitted to Parliament, providing the legal basis for
    incorporating Companies’ registration into the One Stop business facility Center (OBFC).
   (iv) Improving access and quality of basic services : Key policy outcomes were the following: (i) Improving quality
   of primary education and access to secondary education, (ii) Improving support to orphans and vulnerable
   children, (iii) Wider provision of antiretroviral therapy to HIV-AIDS affected people, and (iv) Enhancing capacity of
   local governments to deliver services. It includes seven prior actions: secondary-school enrollment increased by
   10 percent; National Orphan and Vulnerable Children (OVC) Strategic Plan for 2006-2011 prepared by the
   Ministry of Health and Social Welfare to operationalize the National OVC policy; Annual Operational Plan for
   2007 prepared by the National AIDS Commission to implement the National Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS for
   2006-2010; Production and endorsement (by stakeholders) of basic education components of a three year
   education sector plan; the number of sites providing Antiretroviral Treatment (ART) increases, including
   Government, mission, and public/private partnerships; national registration of OVCs completed; and the number
   of sites providing ARV treatment increases from 190 in December 2009 to 197 in December 2010 so as to
   improve access.


   Table 1: Number of prior actions per policy area and PRSC operation
    Policy Area                            PRSC-1             PRSC-2             PRSC-3                Total
   (i) Fiscal consolidation and               1                   2                  -                   3
   macroeconomic stabilization
   (ii) Governance, public                    3                   1                  2                   6
   expenditure management and
   fiduciary framework
   (iii) Conducive environment for            2                   2                  1                   5
   private sector-led growth
   (iv) Improving access and quality          3                   2                  2                   7
   of basic services.
   Total                                      9                   7                  5                  21



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Each PRSC operation was comprised of a portion of credit, and a portion of grant. Also, disbursed amounts in
   US$ were smaller compared to the dollar amounts at approval, because of the SDR appreciation in comparison
   to the US dollar during the life period of the series. PRSC-1 was approved on May 22, 2008 in the amount of
   US$15.9 million, made effective on October 22, 2008, and closed on schedule on March 31, 2009. Disbursed
   amount was US$14.9 million. PRSC-2 was approved on March, 30, 2010 in the amount of US$25.0 million, made
   effective on July, 22, 2010, and closed on schedule on March 31, 2011. Disbursed amount was US$24.49 million.
   PRSC-3 was approved on June 28, 2011 in the amount of US$18.0 million, made effective on August 30, 2011,
   and closed on schedule on January 15, 2012. Disbursed amount stood at US$17.76 million.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial

   The objectives of the programmatic PRSCs were substantially relevant to the Government's strategy at each
   phase, and aligned with the Lesotho’s Vision 2020 document and with the Lesotho’s Poverty Reduction Strategy
   (PRS).

   The policy reforms envisioned in each PRSC program, were also consistent with the Bank’s country
   development strategies. For example, the government plan supported by the first PRSC was focused on three
   pillars aimed at (i) facilitating economic growth that creates employment and income earning opportunities, (ii)
   empowering the poor and improve their access to basic services, and (iii) deepen democracy, and improve public
   sector performance. The second operation supported the Government's Interim National Development
   Framework to bridge the period between the end of the PRS, and the adoption of a new development plan in
   2012. Key pillars of the interim plan were (i) economic growth and diversification, (ii) public expenditure
   management, and improving access to basic services and tackling the HIV/AIDS pandemic. The third PRSC
   operation supported the country's medium term policy framework to restore macroeconomic stability in the wake
   of the global financial crisis, and had similar pillars to the previous government strategies.
   Finally, PRSC-1 and PRSC-2 supported progress toward medium-term program outcomes related to the three
   pillars of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS FY06-09): i) employment and income generation through
   higher economic growth; ii) sharing the benefits of growth: health, education and the environment; and iii)
   improving governance and public service delivery. PRSC-3 supported progress toward outcomes related to the
   three pillars of the CAS FY10-14: i) fiscal adjustment and public sector efficiency; ii) human development and
   service delivery; and iii) competitiveness and diversification.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest

   The program objectives were broad and were adjusted overtime to factor in the priorities of the Government. In
   particular, focus on macroeconomic stability gained more importance during the second and third PRSCs, in the
   wake of the global financial crisis. Overall, most of the outcomes were realistic, measurable and achievable.
   There was a coherence between the prior actions, the triggers and the results throughout the series of
   programmatic operations. However, relevance and effectiveness of prior actions and triggers were mixed. Those
   prior actions geared toward fiscal consolidation, and macroeconomic stability, and improving access to basic
   services were robust and sustained. However, some of the prior actions aimed at (i) improving public
   expenditure management and the fiduciary system, and (ii) creating a conducive environment for private
   sector-led growth, were either not sustained (Procurement) or not deep enough (National Strategy for the
   Development of Statistics) to bring change in the relevant sector.
   Overall, while most of the prior actions were relevant, some of them were first generation reforms, which could
   not trigger enough traction toward the identified outcome. Under the second policy area, for example, adopting
   Public Procurement Regulations by the cabinet was far from achieving accountability for government finances
   and service delivery. Under the third policy area, few among the implemented prior actions could make a real
   dent toward enhancing industrial infrastructure.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   (i) Fiscal consolidation and macroeconomic stability : Substantial

   While inherent in all DPL operations, this was identified as a specific objective in the Government program
   supported by the third operation, due to the impact of the global financial crisis. Budget support provided through
   the third DPL aimed to enhance fiscal consolidation and macroeconomic stability.

   Macroeconomic stability was enhanced by the sustained period of fiscal restraint and recovery in revenues from
   the South African Common Union (SACU) which allowed the reconstitution of international reserves and
   strengthening debt sustainability (IMF, 2014). The non-SACU deficit target set to remain under 22 percent of
   GDP was met, because it was contained at -4.4 % of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2010, and at -11.5% in
   2011. Inflation fell from 10.6% 2008 down to 3.1% in 2010, although it increased thereafter. Real GDP growth
   jumped from 3.6% in 2009/10 to 5.7% in 2010/11. Since the above period until now, real GDP growth has
   averaged over 5%, driven by the mining and water sectors, and the garment sector became a major employer.
   The budget ceiling policy by ministry adopted by the Government led to a positive impact on the non-SACU fiscal
   deficit, which averaged about 8% over the period 2010/11, against an annual ceiling of 22% of GDP. Inflation
   was contained, international reserves were built up, and debt sustainability improved.

   (ii) Creating a conducive environment for private sector -led growth; Modest

   The target of the number of days required to issue import permits and export visas in one day was met. The days
   required to register a business was reduced from 28 to 21 days, short of the target of 7 days. 9.500 square
   meters of new factory space was made available, short of the target of 20,000 square meters.

   The IMF Article IV consultations in 2014 concluded that private sector development is hampered by a difficult
   business environment, including long delays in issuing construction permits, limited access to finance, difficult
   property registration, obstacles to cross-border trade, and weak enforcement of contracts. It calls for further
   strengthening of the legal framework, including a Business Registration Bill and accompanying regulations;
   regulations for the Industrial Licensing Bill; and modernizing the Insolvency Proclamation to facilitate debt
   enforcement collective creditor recovery.
   Based on the above assessment, progress toward the outcome is rated as modest, despite the launching of
   diversification, with sharp increase in mining, water and textile sectors. On the structural reforms front, while
   certain targets were met, there were significant shortcomings in creating a conducive environment for private
   sector-led growth.

   (iii) Improving public expenditure management and the fiduciary framework : Modest.

   The target of preparing the annual MTEF process was successfully completed, but line ministries are in varying
   degrees of compliance. Key improvements that met series targets included publication of MTEF documents
   published for 2010/11 to 2012/13, including key performance indicators. However, the 2012 public expenditure
   and financial accountability (PEFA) assessment points out that uncertainties about future revenues from the
   SACU add greatly to the difficulty of medium-term planning. It is suggested that Medium-term fiscal planning may
   need to accommodate different scenarios. This might include a more rigorous prioritization of different investment
   projects according to their economic returns, providing a better basis for adapting to different situations.

   The target of having the IFMIS implemented and operational was partially achieved. The IFMIS has been rolled
   out, and is the basis for maintaining public accounts, meeting the target. According to the 2012 PEFA
   assessment, the revised Chart of Accounts introduced with the new IFMIS at the beginning of 2009-10 should
   allow consistent comparisons between budgets and out-turn broken down by function, sub-function,
   administrative unit and economic category, although this is not yet possible. There have also been delays in the
   production of IFMIS reports. Documentation submitted to Parliament with the Budget is consistent and
   comprehensive. It covers the debt stock, but not financial assets.

   The target of improved accountability for Government finances and service delivery was not met. While the audit
   of public accounts for the years 2004/05, 2006/07 and 2007/08 was completed, and submitted to the Parliament,
   the 2010 accounts had not been submitted yet after the year-end, which was not in line with the Public Financial
   Management (PFM) Act. Improvements that fell short of series targets included: Audit of public accounts up to
   2007/8 completed and submitted to Parliament, but subsequent accounts not yet completed and not submitted
   for audit.

   The target of having a number of line ministries that adhere to revised procurement regulations was not met,
   because the establishment of the Procurement Tribunal has been delayed as the Government is still soliciting
   interest from qualified accountants and businessmen to sit on the tribunal as is required by law; progress in
   procurement reform, with procurement units established in line ministries, and a PFM Act providing the legal
   basis for a procurement tribunal approved by Parliament. However, the IMF 2014 Article IV consultation
   concluded that PFM, including the IFMIS, remains weak, seriously impairing budget planning, execution,
   monitoring and the overall delivery of government services. Among its recommendations directly relevant to the
   PRSC series was to implement an IFMIS upgrade, and to strengthen the MTEF to ensure meaningful
   medium-term expenditure ceilings to line ministries.

   (iv) Improving access and quality of basic services : Substantial

   Progress in this area included increase in the primary school cohort survival rate: up from 39 percent to 66.7
   percent, exceeding the target of 60 percent. The number of pupils enrolled in secondary schools increased to
   over 122,000 in 2011, surpassing the target of additional 3000 pupils per year. Concerning support for orphans
   and vulnerable children (OVC), a nationwide registration was completed, and the numbers receiving financial
   support increased from 1,500 in 2010, to 27,737 in 2011, meeting the target of increased coverage. The
   proportion of people living with AIDS and in need of anti-retroviral treatment who have received it was 64% in
   2011, not meeting the target of 80%. A decentralization action plan was completed in 2009, meeting the target.
   The target of NSDS phase 1 implementation was met.

5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   While the relevance of objectives was substantial, the relevance of design was modest, due to disconnect
   between the outcomes and the scope of prior actions and reforms. Efficacy was mixed, as performance toward
   two policy areas was substantial, while progress made toward two other areas was modest. The achieved
   outcome was generated by the series of PRSCs, but also by the Joint Budget support (JBS) that ran
   concurrently. On balance, IEG finds there is sufficient evidence to conclude that the PRSCs did contribute to the
   achievement of the objectives, as part of the overall support to the Government’s program.

   Efficacy was substantial in two areas: (i) fiscal consolidation and macroeconomic stability were enhanced by the
   sustained period of fiscal restraint and recovery in revenues from the South African Common Union. Inflation was
   contained, international reserves were built up, and debt sustainability improved. Restraint on the fiscal sector
   front led to a positive impact on the non-SACU fiscal deficit, (ii) access and quality of basic services improved,
   including increasing ratios in primary school cohort survival rate and in the number of pupils enrolled in
   secondary schools, and rising number/proportion of people receiving ART and support package.

   While some progress was achieved, efficacy was modest in two other areas. There were some achievements in
   reforms aimed at improving public finance management, and creating a conducive environment for private
   sector-led growth, but there were also significant shortcomings.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Lesotho will have difficulties to sustain fiscal consolidation and public finance stability, in the face of highly volatile
   SACU revenues, and powerful urban interest groups reclaiming higher bursary schemes and wage increases.
   However, the country will draw on the experience gained during the programmatic series and the Government’s
   commitment shown in the FY2012-13 budget, and the support of the IMF program. At the JBS Review meeting in
   2012, the Government committed to continue working under the Performance Assessment Framework (PAF) and
   set new targets for 2013, confirming that the government remains engaged for key socio-economic reforms.

   While public finance management improved, there were delays in strengthening key areas, including external
   oversight of the budget, and staffing the Procurement Tribunal. Despite Government's commitment to reforms,
   implementation of the IFMIS was constrained, and the Government has difficulties to obtain, train and retain
   professionally qualified public accountants. Progress toward creating a conducive environment for private
   sector-led growth was limited, as key targets were missed and completed reforms were only preliminary. On the
   positive side, performance for access and quality of basic services might be sustained, because of Government's
   commitment, and contribution from the donor community and the civil society.

   In the policy area of delivery of public services, progress toward outcomes was commendable (pupils enrolled in
   secondary schools, and the proportion of people living with AIDS and receiving anti-retroviral treatment (ART)
   increased, and support for orphans and vulnerable children improved. The National Development Strategy Plan
   supports the continuation of the above services, and the institutions to oversee social expenditure were
   strengthened.

   The PRSC program achieved a lot in contributing to progress in the four policy areas supported to the program,
   particularly as regards to macroeconomic stability, delivery of public services, and PFM as well. While there
   remain risks to maintain achieved outcomes, there are no signals that progress made will be reversed, although
   a successor development policy operation (DPO) was cancelled in January 2015. Moreover, the Government is
   committed to phasing in program budgeting over the next three years, and the Government remains committed to
   fixing the difficulties in IFMIS implementation. Similarity, the risk to the sustainability of reforms in the area of
   private sector development is low because the Government intends to enhance the OBFC and continue to
   implement the Companies Act and the NSDS.

   Based on the above developments, risk to development outcome is rated Moderate

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The design and timing of the PRSC series focused on the critical challenges facing the country in the areas of
   fiscal sustainability, public finance governance, private sector-led growth environment, and delivery of social
   services. The launch of PRSC series built on a wealth of economic and sector work that made a deep
   diagnostic of the macro-economic situation of the country, including the investment climate, the PFM
   institutional setting, and the context for basic services delivery. The series was prepared jointly with the
   European Union and the African Development Bank. The United Kingdom’s Department for International
   Development, Irish Aid, and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German Aid) were
   also participants in the process, but did not provide budget support. Donor coordination through the PAF
   provided an open policy dialogue with the Government in different areas, and facilitated the design, and the
   implementation of the PRSC reforms.

   Risks were analyzed thoroughly, and highlighted the weak administrative capacity and coordination
   encountered in small states, and the external and political risks. External risks stemmed from country's
   reliance on external markets, which often generate volatile SACU transfers and remittances from citizen
   working in South African mines, and oil and food shocks as well. Political tension surrounding election periods
   often negatively impacts the investment climate and the governance reforms. At design, the PD identified
   mitigation measures (support to reform champions and use of donors' contributions) in order to allow the
   launch and/or pursuit of the PRSC reform agenda.

   Implementation and M&E arrangements were complex as detailed in Section 9.b. A more streamlined
   structure of arrangements would have helped in monitoring the JBS and the series of programmatic
   operations with more efficacy, and could have facilitated identification of implementation roadblocks.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   Program supervision was done through the Annual JBS Review meetings and through verification of
   compliance based on triggers for the operations, and these processes worked smoothly. The supervision of
   other ongoing Bank operations helped to some extent mitigate some of the institutional technical risks
   capacity risks mentioned above.

   However, supervision failed to inspire the Government and the donor community in order to get support to
   boost underperforming reforms. This applies to reforms towards enhancing the PFM, and creating a more
   conducive private sector, for which members of the donor community have large experience. Government’s
   performance could have been improved by a more fluid policy dialogue at the sector level. With a more
   sustained sector dialogue, donors could have provided technical assistance and support to address reform
   roadblocks.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The Government showed strong ownership in the design and implementation of the PRSC series. The
   Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning (MFDP) assured coordination with
   other Ministries Agencies for implementation of the required actions, and with development partners,
   assuming budget support was provided at regular intervals. The Government was able to transform external
   budget support into a JBS vehicle organized around the PAF, and the synergy in reforms worked well.
   However, the Government’s performance over the past few years in some areas has been slow. The Ministry
   of Finance and Development Planning noted that line ministries did not have the incentives to achieve their
   PAF targets, and those related to the programmatic series as well.

   The Government could have initiated a more aggressive dialogue policy at sector levels. The Government
   could have been more proactive, and use donor's contribution in supporting sectors whereby reforms were
   lagging behind, notably those related to PFM, and the creation of a conducive environment for private sector
   development.




  Government Performance Rating :                          Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   A team of officials from the MFDP and the Bureau of Statistics monitored progress in implementation of the
   overall budget support program. The team acted as the Secretariat for JBS implementation and monitoring. At
   the Ministerial level, there were teams of officials responsible for implementation and monitoring of PAF
   activities and collecting data to verify achievement of PAF indicators and report to the Secretariat. The JBS
   Secretariat was headed by the Department of Development Planning and reported, on a quarterly basis, to
   the Improvement and Reform Steering Committee.

   The Chairperson of the Steering Committee reported in turn, through the Minister of the MFDP to the Budget
   Committee. The PAF progress report was submitted by the Principal Secretary of the MFDP to the Committee
   of Principal Secretaries as they were responsible for delivering on these indicators. This was the forum for
   initial discussions towards the required remedial actions where problems exist. However, the ICR provided
   little detail on how the implementing arrangements were translated into action, and on the difference between
   areas of success, and those that underperformed.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   All three PDs had detailed policy matrices and results frameworks (Annex I) with baseline and targets associated
   with the expected outcomes for the most part. In parallel, there was a PAF to monitor the implementation of the
   Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS). However, some of the indicators and expected outcomes were
   not measurable (for instance the outcome of “facilitation of FDI” had a results indicator of “excess demand for
   factory space by private investors addressed” and a target of “impediments to access to land by investors
   removed. Similarly, the adoption of a NSDS is an indicator that represents little toward strengthening
   evidence-based decision-making.

   In the PD, it was indicated that the PAF will be the basis for monitoring and evaluation of the series of
   programmatic operations. An annual progress report submitted by end-August of each year was to be followed by
   a joint annual review of progress, based on the PAF, to analyze progress towards agreed triggers and targets.
   The main objective of this review was to come to a joint view on performance, which was intended to serve as the
   basis for commitments for the following financial year.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The ICR provided limited information about the M&E implementation. At the Ministerial level, there were teams
   of officials responsible for implementation and monitoring of PAF activities and collecting data to verify
   achievement of PAF indicators and reporting to the Secretariat. The JBS Secretariat was headed by the
   Department of Development Planning and was to report, on a quarterly basis, to the Improvement and Reform
   Steering Committee.

   The team confirmed that the implementing arrangements for the program were observed, but their performance
   during implementation was not reported in the ICR, and no discussion of adjustments made in order to correct
   design flaws or drawbacks in implementation. In particular, there was no reporting on the performance of the
   parallel monitoring of the results framework of the series, and the Program Assessment Framework of the JBS
    and the PRS.

c. M&E Utilization:

    Information provided in the ICR was not sufficient to have a clear picture on how data and information collected
    during and after the implementation of one operation were collected and used to design the follow-on operation
    and for making policy decisions. However, it is assumed that the preparation of any new operation, the Bank
    team relied on what was achieved in terms of completion of prior actions, progress toward triggers and outcome
    targets. Unfortunately, the ICR was unable to present a story summarizing the experience of how successes and
    failures in implementing the first and second operations were used to prepare subsequent operations, and
    monitor achievement of outcome.

  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The ICR did not address these issues.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    The ICR did not report on fiduciary compliance, and did not indicate if the funds disbursed under the 3 PRSCs
    were audited.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    N.A.

d. Other:

    N.A.



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review              Reason for
                                                                                  Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
           Risk to Development Moderate                     Moderate
                      Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.
13. Lessons:

    IEG takes on board two lessons presented in the ICR, which are rephrased below:

    (i) Programmatic PRSCs are effective in supporting a country in a financial crisis situation and in pushing for
    the implementation of difficult reforms. In a crisis situation, having a macroeconomic stability component in the
    PRSC series allows the Government to push line ministries to stick to their budget ceilings. As a result, current
    expenditures were at least maintained at a constant as a share of GDP.

    (ii) The PRSCs give the Bank a convening capacity in order to establish a dialogue with the country and other
    donors. The PAF was an adequate instrument to monitor the key Government targets. At the first JBS
    operation, it helped to establish a forum for an open policy dialogue in many areas and a monitoring system of
    performance indicators.

    Additional lessons identified by IEG are as follows:

    (iii) In order to improve results from the programmatic PRSCs, it matters to implement in parallel technical
    assistance in the relevant sector ministries, through Bank loans or grants (Bank planned to fund TA in PFM
    and statistics in 2012), or with the support of the donor partners.

    (iv) In case of JBS with other donors, the Bank needs to have clear protocols on how to reconcile and report
    the monitoring of the Bank PRSC program, and the participation in the joint program.

    (v) Efficacy of the PRSCs is proportional to the leverage margin available for the Bank to push for reforms. If
    the Borrower can generate enough fiscal revenues to cover immediate expenditure needs, the leverage is
    reduced. If the borrower is constrained in covering priority expenditures, the leverage is higher, and efficacy of
    PRSCs can be significant.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR highlighted concisely the design, implementation and results achieved under the three PRSCs series.
    Lessons provided in the ICR were also derived from the evidence, and the analysis therein. But there was room
    for improvement under each phase of the program delivery. The ICR could have pinpointed the disconnect
    between some prior actions, and the outcomes to which they were supposed to contribute. On the
    implementation front, the JBS and the PRCS series programs ran concomitantly, and a clearer reporting on their
    coordination was lacking. In the same token, the European Union and African Development Bank provided
    parallel general budget resources, but the story of the amounts disbursed and their contribution in achieving the
    outcomes were unclear. Evidence on achieved results was well reported, but a deeper interpretation of the theory
    of change linking prior actions to identified outcomes was warranted in some instances, especially as regard the
    third pillar.

    The ICR rated the policy areas using the 6-point scale, instead of the four-point scale. Also, the ICR did not cover
    the M&E implementation and utilization in a satisfactory manner. On balance, the ICR was satisfactory, but with
    some weaknesses. Finally, the ICR did not incorporate any views from the Borrower, or the other donors that
    provided parallel budget support and financing.


a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
