Report No. PID9874
Project Name                     Moldova-Structural Adjustment Credit-
Amendment-Supplemental Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID                       MDPE73537
Borrower(s)                      Republic of Moldova
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Address Chisinau, Moldova
Contact Person: Ms. Mariana Durlesteanu
Tel: 373-2- 22-82-27
Fax: 373-2-22-82-27.
Email: piumd@mdearn.cri.md
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 17, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         December 19, 2000
Projected Board Date             February 15, 2001
Country and Sector Background
Since 1993, Moldova has rapidly stabilized its economy, and has started
structural reforms. Financial stabilization, supported by the IMF (through
an STF, two stand-by arrangements and an EFF), had, until 1998, been
Moldova's most visible economic policy success. A new currency was
introduced in 1993, and monetary and fiscal policy tightened. Inflation fell
to an annual rate of around 15 percent in 1996, then one of the lowest rates
in the FSU.
The initial round of these reforms, in 1997, saw some results, as GDP rose by
1.3 percent, the first positive growth since independence. This as spurred
by a strong rebound in the agriculture sector, which grew by 11 percent in
1997, recovering from a 12 percent drop in 1996. The continuation of a
disciplined monetary policy (supported by the IMF's EFF program) also
ensured that CPI inflation fell to 11 percent and the exchange rate was
stable. However, the energy sector's external arrears accumulated rapidly.
Fiscal deficit targets were missed by a large margin. The pressures emerging
from large fiscal and energy sector expenditures were reflected in a current
account deficit of 17 percent of GDP. 1998, however, saw two distinct phases
in Moldova's economic development. The first half of 1998 was dominated by
reform inertia, leading up to the critical Parliamentary elections held in
March. These watershed elections resulted in a strongly pro-reform ruling
Parliamentary coalition and Government. Accordingly, the second half of the
year was marked both by important legislative and Governmental milestones
promoting structural change, while the macroeconomy was being battered by the
regional financial crisis.
The Country's Adjustment Program
The government's initial round of structural reforms, supported by a
Rehabilitation Loan and then by a first Structural Adjustment Loan, focused
on three areas: (a) privatizing, restructuring, and demonopolizing
enterprises; (b) strengthening the legal and regulatory framework in the
financial sector; and (c) liberalizing prices and trade. However, the pace



of structural reforms and the results lagged, and GDP continued declining--by
about 3 percent in 1995 and 7.5 percent in 1996.
The Government's next round of structural reforms, supported by the first two
tranches of the Second Structural Adjustment Credit and Loan (SAL II), have
been more successful, although much of the progress in implementation came in
two spurts - in mid-1997 and the second half of 1998. The reforms supported
by SAL II aimed to: (a) restore viability to the PAYG pension system through
a comprehensive reform; (b) demonopolize and privatize the energy sector -
gas and electricity - and improve its financial viability; (c) spur the
development of private agriculture through farm restructuring, land titling
and the development of a market in land; (d) complete the process of
enterprise privatization by moving from mass privatization to systematic
privatization for cash. Under this operation, a much-needed (and much-
delayed) reform to the PAYG pension system was adopted in 1998, as was the
privatization of the gas sector and numerous enterprises and associated
"objects". At the same time, reduced demand in Russia, along with the
inability of the Russian banks to service Moldovan exporters, led to a
significant reduction of trade flows with Russia, the dominant market for
Moldovan exports. Consequently, exports dropped 23 percent and imports 8
percent in the first eleven months of 1998. As a result, GDP is estimated to
have fallen by over 5 percent in 1998.
The Structural Adjustment Credit
The SAC extends the agenda of SAL II, by supporting the implementation of the
Government's program in the areas of (i) Controlling Budgetary Arrears; (ii)
De-Monopolizing and Privatizing the Energy Sector; and (iii) Creating a
Flexible and Competitive Private Sector, including in Agriculture.
The Country's Adjustment Program
The government's initial round of structural reforms, supported by a
Rehabilitation Loan and then by a first Structural Adjustment Loan, focused
on three areas: (a) privatizing, restructuring, and demonopolizing
enterprises; (b) strengthening the legal and regulatory framework in the
financial sector; and (c) liberalizing prices and trade. However, the pace
of structural reforms and the results lagged, and GDP continued declining--by
about 3 percent in 1995 and 7.5 percent in 1996.
The Government's next round of structural reforms, supported by the first two
tranches of the Second Structural Adjustment Credit and Loan (SAL II), have
been more successful, although much of the progress in implementation came in
two spurts - in mid-1997 and the second half of 1998. The reforms supported
by SAL II aimed to: (a) restore viability to the PAYG pension system through
a comprehensive reform; (b) demonopolize and privatize the energy sector -
gas and electricity - and improve its financial viability; (c) spur the
development of private agriculture through farm restructuring, land titling
and the development of a market in land; (d) complete the process of
enterprise privatization by moving from mass privatization to systematic
privatization for cash. Under this operation, a much-needed (and much-
delayed) reform to the PAYG pension system was adopted in 1998, as was the
privatization of the gas sector and numerous enterprises and associated
"objects". At the same time, reduced demand in Russia, along with the
inability of the Russian banks to service Moldovan exporters, led to a
significant reduction of trade flows with Russia, the dominant market for
Moldovan exports. Consequently, exports dropped 23 percent and imports 8
percent in the first eleven months of 1998. As a result, GDP is estimated to
have fallen by over 5 percent in 1998.
Progress under the SAC and Initiation of the Proposed Supplement of the SAC
to help the Moldovan Authorities address a financial gap caused by a severe
- 2 -



ice storm in the November 2000.
The Structural Adjustment Credit to Moldova in the amount of SDR 29.6 million
was approved by the Executive Directors on June 24, 1999 (Report No. P-7317-
MD). The Credit Agreement was signed on July 6, 1999, became effective on
August 10, 1999, and the first tranche of SDR 14.8 million (US$ 20 million
equivalent) was disbursed on August 11, 1999.    Upon full compliance with the
Credit Agreement, the second tranche of SDR 14.8 million (US$ 20 million
equivalent) was disbursed on December 21, 2000 (See the attached President's
Report which was first distributed to the Board in December 2000).     The
closing date of the SAC was extended on December 21, 2000 by three months to
March 31, 2001 to facilitate this proposed supplemental credit.
The November ice storm caused great damage to the power distribution network,
as well as to telecommunications, forests and agriculture. The width of the
ice which clung to network structures and trees reached 10 centimeters in
some places. As a result, the power grid was down and related power
infrastructure severely damaged, water supply, sewage systems and
telecommunications were not working, and as a result, many schools, hospitals
and businesses were not able to operate. Before emergency steps were taken,
natural gas was the only source of energy through much of the affected zone.
The most affected area covers roughly the northern third of Moldova,
including about 550 localities with a total population of more than 700,000
people, roughly half of whom are below an absolute poverty line of 12 US
dollars per month. Based on Government estimates and supplemented by a
damage evaluation report prepared for the World Bank by an outside energy
expert, damages to electricity and telecom lines, agricultural lands, and
forests are conservatively estimated at 255 million lei (about US$ 20
million), of which at least 180 million lei ( US$ 13.5 million) represent
direct costs to the Government.
After the ice storm, the Government took immediate action to minimize the
human and economic impact of the damage, primarily by attempting to restore
critical electricity supply. Initial emergency measures include, (a)
supplying emergency power by mobile generators to run water and sewerage
systems, (b) provision of temporary energy supply to some hospitals and
police stations, (c) weekly public health checks and/or disinfection of
potable water wells in every village, (d) ensuring that every village has
access to at least one working telephone line, and (e) rebuilding of priority
high-voltage power lines. After taking stock of the damages, the Government
has undertaken a second round of power-line reconstruction which it hopes to
complete by the end of February, 2001. Works to date have been funded
through current revenues, supplier credits and all available financial and
material support from neighboring countries and donors.
This disaster happened at a difficult moment, as the Moldovan Authorities are
in the midst of negotiating sale of the North and North-West power
distribution companies to Union Fenosa (of Spain).     While there is an
emergency need to get the power system back up and to make some
rehabilitation prior to privatization, full restoration of the pre-storm grid
is neither feasible nor advisable. However, as described above, an emergency
response means up-front costs to the Government for which they are re-
channeling current revenues, compounded by loss of privatization and tax
proceeds later on, which implies lower revenues available for other
expenditures in an already austere 2001 budget. As clarified during
negotiations, expenditures financed by the proposed supplement would require
Parliamentary approval of an amendment to the 2001 Budget Law, while a
Government decree would establish a Special Fund for National Calamities.
Supplemental resources would be disbursed from this fund and would primarily
- 3 -



be spent on (a) labor costs, (b) import components (cables, towers, diesel
fuel, etc.) and (c) other domestic components. Any funds from the
supplemental credit which are not needed directly for emergency relief would
then be made available to other line items of the 2001 budget to help make up
for loss of revenues due to the ice storm (e.g., from lower tax revenues due
to business closings and reduced privatization proceeds), and to make budget
expenditures that were earlier delayed in order to re-channel funds to
address the ice damage.
Restructuring and privatization of the power sector while providing targeted
assistance to vulnerable groups of Moldovans, is a centerpiece of both the
April 1999 CAS and the Structural Adjustment Credit. It has also been
identified as one of the key mechanisms for achieving the objectives of the
I-PRSP.   A continued emergency response is needed in order to facilitate
privatization and for quickly getting energy supplies back to consumers.
However, in the absence of extraordinary assistance, the financing gap
created by the storm will reduce budget funds available to finance the
targeted energy assistance program, energy sector reforms, and other budget
programs. The unanticipated gap in financing thus jeopardizes reforms which
are otherwise proceeding on schedule and in compliance with the agreed policy
agenda. The proposed supplement is therefore crucial for maintaining
momentum for the reform program described in the I-PRSP and the CAS, and
supported by the SAC.
The Government plans to acquire the services of the auditor of the National
Bank of Moldova (NBM) to conduct an audit to verify that the proceeds of the
Credit were deposited in a dollar account at the NBM, and that a local
currency equivalent was then transferred to the Government's Treasury account
at the NBM from which budgetary disbursements are made. The Government plans
to complete the audit and make it available to the World Bank within one
month after the disbursement of the supplemental credit. Public sector
financial management by the Ministry of Finance, carried out via the State
Treasury, has earned credibility in recent years through its track record of
budget execution. Credibility is heightened by stewardship services offered
by the NBM, which has received praise from the IMF regarding its management
of fiduciary responsibilities. Finally, in addition to an audit prepared by
the NBM's auditor, the Chamber of Accounts of Parliament, the media, and a
small follow-up SAC supervision mission, will all verify, from different
perspectives, that funding was allocated as agreed.
The proposed supplement of the SAC is to be presented to the Bank's Board of
Directors on February 13, 2001.
Contact Point:
Task Manager: Mark Davis
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-2330
Fax: 202-522-2754
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W
-4-



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Union Fenosa recently purchases the Central, South and South-West
distribution networks, and is making emergency repairs to
the electricity grid in those regions of Moldova.
A Joint Staff Assessment of the I-PRSP was approved by the boards of the
World Bank and IMF in December 2000.
-5-



