Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24236
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-24834; IDA-32560; IDA-32561; TF-50281)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29.6 MILLION (EQUIVALENT OF US$40 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC)
06/27/2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit (ECSPE)
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = leu (plural lei) (MDL)
MDL = US$ 0.08
USS = MDL 13.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS        -       Country Assistance Strategy
CIS        -      Commonwealth of Independent States
CPRM         -       Comnmunist Party of the Republic of Moldova
EFF        -       Extended Fund Facility
FSU        -       Former Soviet Union
FY        -       Fiscal Year
GDP        -       Gross Domestic Product
IDA        -       International Development Association
IBRD        -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC        -      International Financial Corporation
IFI       -       International Financial Institutions
IMF        -       International Monetary Fund
JSC        -       Joint Stock Company
LDP        -       Letter of Development Policy
MIIGA        -       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NRATI         -      National Regulatory Agency for Telecommunications and
PSD        -       Informatics
SAL        -       Private Sector Development
SDR        -       Structural Adjustment Loan (Credit/Loan)
SOE        -       Special Drawing Rights
USAID         -       State-Owned Enterprises
United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:   Roger Grawe, ECCO7
Sector Manager/Director:   Cheryl W. Gray, ECSPE
Task Teamn LeaderlTask Manager:   Mark S. Davis, ECSPF



REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                    10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   12
9. Partner Comments                                                                  12
10. Additional Information                                                           15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                24






Project ID: P061496                                      Project .Name: SAC
Team Leader: Samuel K. E. Otoo                           TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date- June 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: SAC                                           L//TF Number. TF-24834; IDA-32560;
IDA-32561; TF-50281
Country/Department: MOLDOVA                                             Region  Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: KN - Macro/Non-Trade
KEY DATES
Original           Rev ised/Actual
PCD:   01/22/1999                             Effective: 08/10/1999        08/10/1999
Appraisal:  04/26/1999                               MTR: 02/15/2000
Appproval:  06/24/1999                             Closing: 12/31/2000         12/31/2001
Borrower/lInplemteniting Agency:  REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:  Government of the Netherlands
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Countr Manager:      Roger W. Grawe                            Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager:      Cheryl W. Gray                            Pradeep K. Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:  Mark S. Davis                             Mark S. Davis
ICR Primal)? Author:  Andrew Ewing
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
MOTIVATION FOR OBJECTIVES
Moldova is a small, agriculturally dependent, landlocked country. It is also one of the poorest countries of
the Europe with an Atlas GNP per-capita in 2001 of S450. About half of the 4.4 million citizens live in



rural areas almost completely dependent on agriculture.  In August 1991, Moldova regained its
independence from the Former Soviet Union (FSU). Soon thereafter, disagreements over economic policies
together with ethnic factors resulted in armed conflict between the regions on the right and left
(Transnistria) banks of the Nistru River, and ultimately resulted in the de facto partition of the country.
Throughout this document, "Moldova" refers to the part of the country excluding Transnistria.
Despite the Transnistrian conflict, Moldova's achievements in terms of creating a sovereign state based on
democratic principles and the rule of law have been impressive. The first democratic elections and the
adoption of a constitution marked important steps in the process of democratization. A system of political
pluralism and a multiparty control was established early in the transition process, and the emergence of
non-governmental organizations and of a rather independent and active media were other early signs of
democratic development and popular participation.
However, Moldova's economy suffered one of the greatest declines registered among the economies in
transition. A 60 percent decline in GDP and a corresponding deterioration of living standards was
registered during the first five years of independence, mainly due to severe external shocks resulting from
the collapse of the FSU and the severe misalignment of Moldova's own productive capacity for competing
in the world marketplace. The breakdown of the country's traditional trade linkages and payment systems,
as well as the traumatic exposure to world prices, undermined the viability of the entire economic system.
Perhaps most importantly, Moldova's almost complete dependence on import of energy resources caused
deterioration in its terms of trade that created acute stagflation and a severe balance of payments problem.
In 1992 inflation soared to 2,700 percent and the cash fiscal deficit reached 22 percent of GDP. Real
average wages fell 53% between 1992 and 1994.
In subsequent years Moldova showed a fiLrm commitment to stabilizing its economy and in this respect, was
considered a leading reformer among the CIS countries. With the introduction of a new currency in 1993
and tightening of monetary and fiscal policy, a period of financial stabilization commenced. The reduction
of the budget deficit on a cash basis from 22 percent of GDP in 1992 to around 5.8 percent in 1995, and
the contraction of the inflation to around 15 percent in 1996, gives some evidence of the early success at
stabilization. This was complemented by a series of first generation reforms including trade and price
liberalization, mass privatization and financial sector reform. Financial stabilization, however, has yet not
resulted in increased standards of living, as reflected by the continuing low levels of per capita GDP and
increasing rates of poverty.
Despite significant policy and structural advances, transformation of the economy was not sufficient to
generate a positive growth response. The collapse in output and the failure to impose hard budget
constraints undercut the macroeconomic and financial stabilization that had earlier been achieved. Lack of
sufficient reduction in expenditure commitments led to a renewed buildup of budgetary arrears to about 14
percent of GDP by end-1998. The cash deficit was 2.8 percent of GDP and the commitment deficit 8.5
percent of GDP in 1998. Moreover, much of the payments by the State budget were in the form of offsets
and in kind, thus providing little cash to either households or enterprises. Wage arrears to education and
health workers, already among the lowest paid in the economy, increased, leading to frequent strikes and
protests. Arrears by the Government to the energy sector, although partly reduced by offsets, contributed
to a continuation of the poor financial situation of the enterprises, and led to the buildup of quasi-fiscal
extemal debt to Gazprom (the monopoly supplier of gas) and electricity suppliers in Ukraine. Moldova's
extemal debt grew at a rapid pace to over US$ I billion or 82 percent of GDP at end 2000.
The World Bank program, as articulated in the Moldova Country Assistance Strategies (CAS), has
consistently focused on supporting structural reforms that would provide a sustainable output response.
SAL 1 (1995) supported reforms in the energy and agricultural sectors. But by 1997 there was backsliding
in land reform and market liberalization policies for agriculture, and continued increases in energy sector
- 2 -



debt. Mass privatization resulted in a formal transfer of ownership for the majority of enterprises, but did
not significantly improve corporate governance or operational efficiency. The competitive environment
remrained grossly deficient, while corruption and governance problems seriously damaged Moldova's ability
to attract strategic foreign investment. With the installation of a reform-minded coalition Governrnent,
SAL II (1997) was designed, to further support the Governmnent's reform program, create conditions
necessary for maintenance of macroeconomic stability, a resumption of growth, and an improvement in
social protection. The SAL 11 program focused specifically on four areas: (a) pension reform, (b) land
privatization and farm restructuring, (c) unbundling the energy enterprises and starting the process of
privatization, and (d) enterprise privatization - particularly small scale. Outcomes were satisfactory, but a
great deal remained to be done to complete the structural reform agenda. This was the situation that faced
the preparation team as they began to prepare the SAC early in 1999.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The original objective of the SAC was to support the Government's reform program, necessary to create
conditions for resumption of growth and an improvement of the living standards in Moldova. This was to
be accomplished through support for the development priorities of that time, including specifically: (a)
ensuring the social and economic sustainability of fiscal adjustment; (b) laying the further foundation for
land reform, agricultural growth and rural development; (c) restoring the financial viability of energy
providers, improving the efficiency of energy usage, and ensuring a reliable energy supply to all paying
customers; and (d) supporting private sector development by facilitating investment and restructuring by
strategic partners, and laying the foundation for growth in incomes and outputs of small and medium
enterprises.
An expost assessment of the overall objectives of the program suggests that its design was appropriately
focused in support of the government's reform progran. The project objectives, which were clear and
realistic, reflected the priorities embodied in the 1999 CAS and represented a continuation of the previous
series of adjustment operations. Not withstanding the positive growth performance that followed 1999 and
the significant improvement in fiscal performance, the objectives of the SAC still remain relevant.
Although some reforrns took longer than anticipated and, in the face of political instability, some
backsliding occurred, during the SAC period Moldova achieved considerable progress in establishing
macroeconomic stability, reviving real growth, and furthering reform efforts.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were unchanged throughout project implementation. However, in 2000, Moldova
was hit by a severe frost followed by the worst drought in 50 years. While the Bank was considering
possible further support to mitigate these effects on the agricultural sector, a major ice storm in November
led to considerable danage in the country and, in particular, to facilities in the energy sector. The
Governnent acted quickly to restore critical electricity supplies and to repair major damage but the cost of
these efforts were considerable. It becarne clear that if reform efforts in the energy sector were to proceed
as originally envisaged under SAC, additional financial resources would be required to rectify damage and
bring the reform and privatization of the energy sector back on track.
The World Bank's Board of Directors were first asked to consider a request for a supplemental credit for
this purpose in February of 2001. Just at that time, however, the Govermment's commitment to necessary
energy sector reform appeared to be wavering under social and political pressure preceding parliamentary
elections. The Bank's Regional Management recommended withdrawal of the request prior to formal
Board consideration. The elections took place at the end of February, and by September, the energy reform
program appeared to be back on track. At that time, the request for additional funding (SDR 4 million,
- 3-



equivalent to USS5 million) was resubmitted and approved.
A further objective was thus added to the project: mitigation of the financial costs to Government of
dealing with damage to energy sector facilities arising out of the ice storm of November 2000. This revised
objective was clearly in line with the original Government and Bank priorities in the energy sector and
reflected an appropriate response to changing conditions in that sector.
3.3 Original Comiponents
The original components of the project were simply elaborations of the objectives-individual policy
actions that would further these objectives. Specifically:
*      Ensuring the social and economic sustainability of fiscal adjustment. This was to be accomplished
by lowering expenditure commitments to conform to revenues, within programs to be agreed with the IMF.
*      Laying the further foundation for land reform agricultural ,growth and rural development: This
was to be accomplished through programs that would: (a) complete the restructuring of former collective
and state farms into market-reforming, efficiency-motivated units; and (b) maintaining liberal policies for
agriculture and agro-processing.
*      Restoring the financial viability of energy providers, improving the efficiency of energy usage, and
ensuring a reliable energy supply to all paying customers: This was to be accomplished through a variety
of measures that included: (a) developing an appropriate regulatory framework and the institutional
capacity to implement it; (b) restoring the energy sectors financial equilibrium and reducing energy-related
budget arrears; and (c) imposing financial discipline, hard budget constraints, and improving the quality of
energy services for consumers by de-monopolization and privatization of the energy sector
*      Supporting private sector development by facilitating investment and restructuring by strategic
partners, and laving the foundation for growth in incomes and outputs of small and medium enterprises:
This was to be accomplished by: (a) acceleration of the pnvatization of small, medium and large
businesses; (b) privatization of urban real estate and the creation of an urban land market; and (c)
accelerating the process of ownership change in certain important sectors including telecommunications and
the winery sector.
These components were not changed during the period of project implementation. And the additional
objective previously described, related to damage from the ice storm of November 2000, was
accommodated within the energy component.
3.4 Revised Components:
Although there were no revisions to project components during implementation, the emphasis on different
components changed somewhat according to the actual situation. More importantly, in December 2000 and
again in December 2001, the Government of the Netherlands marked its support for Moldova by providing
USSIO million grant funding specifically in support of the objectives and components of the SAC project.
With this financing from the Netherlands, and the supplement for the storm damage, total project cost (and
funding) thus increased from USS40 million equivalent at appraisal to USS65 million equivalent shortly
before project closure at the end of 2001.
3.5 Oualitv at Entry
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory. The project was well prepared and designed, drawing on the
experience of ongoing Bank-assisted projects and two prior adjustment operations, additional input from
the IMF, the European Union and other partners active in Moldova and detailed specific studies and
background work undertaken by Bank staff in agriculture, energy and pnvate sector development. The
- 4 -



objectives and components of the project, all of which were developed in close consultation with
Government, were appropriate and consistent with a continuation and speeding-up of the reform process.
They covered most of the areas of structural improvement which were key for restoring sustainable
economic growth, and conformed to a reasonable sequence of reform. The project set ambitious targets in
reforming agriculture and energy-areas in which reform efforts had lagged. The focus on accelerating
privatization was appropriate as private sector growth was too slow and many important parts of the
economy were still state owned. From the outset, there was strong Govermment commitment to the project
objectives and design.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Background. The SAC program was designed to be implemented over 18 months, with funds to be
disbursed in two tranches upon the fulfillment by Government of each set of tranche conditions. First
tranche conditions were essentially completed by the time of Board presentation in June 1999, and the first
tranche of USS20 million equivalent was released at the time of project effectiveness in August.
Thereafter, however, there were a number of "stop and go" reform efforts, and policy reversals, driven by
evolving political and economic developments.
The key to understanding the delays in implementation of the SAC is the political instability, caused by the
lack of a stable parliamentary coalition, that plague Moldova over this period. The SAC program was
prepared with the support and guidance of the reform-minded Prime Minister, Mr. Ion Sturza, who was
nominated in February 1999 by a coalition of four center-right parties that together held a slim controlling
majority in Parliament over the Communist Party of the Republic of Moldova (CPRM). The reform efforts
of this coalition led to the rather impressive pre-Board achievements of the SAC. These included, inter alia
: (a) adoption of a law to expedite settlement of farm debts necessary to finalize the farm privatization, (b)
partial rationalization of subsidies for energy consumption, (c) hiring of an investment bank to assist with
privatization of the power companies, (d) preparation and satisfactory execution of a plan for completing a
debt-equity swap of a controlling majority of shares of Moldovagas, (e) initiation of a process for
establishing a regulator for telecomrnmunications, and (f) enactment of the 1999/2000 Privatization Program.
However, support for the Government by the President and Parliament remained tenuous throughout the
summer of 1999. By fall, support weakened as significant rationalization steps taken in the energy sector
contributed to public pressure on the Government to reinstate broad subsidies for energy consumers for the
winter of 1999/2000. In response, the Sturza Government sought from Parliament a vote of confidence for
the reform program and the Government itself, by presenting a package of reforms to Parliament designed
to secure both the second tranche of the SAC and an agreement with the IMF to release final tranches of
the EFF. However, sufficient support could not be obtained to pass the full package, leading to the
resignation of the Sturza Government on November 9, 1999.
In December, 1999, a technocrat Government led by Prime Minister Dumitru Braghis was confirmed by
Parliament with the support of a new coalition that included the CPRM. Despite wide-ranging platforms of
the coalition partners, the Braghis Government quickly adopted a reform program almost identical to the
one of the previous Government and immediately began to consolidate support for its implementation.
With the SAC second tranche pending and the program supported by the IMF-EFF set to expire on May
20, 2000, the Government attempted to complete the needed measures in time to secure funding for the
2000 budget. By mid-March, the Braghis Government, like the government before it, presented Parliament
with a necessary package of reform bills to secure IFI support. Parliamentary deliberations quickly
revealed the political weakness in the coalition government-the reform program was supported only by the
new opposition (centrist parties). With the clock ticking toward the EFF expiration date, and with a
Presidential election looming on the horizon, a vote for the reform program by the opposition was perceived
- 5-



as a vote for the President who, by that time, was viewed by the centrist as a liability to the reform process.
Since key IFI support was expected to improve the economic and social situation just prior to the
Presidential election, the opposition did not give their support for the reform package nor the President.
In July 2000, Parliament moved to end the stalemate that had characterized Moldova's political
environment by voting for significant amendments to the Constitution that changed Moldova to a
Parliamentary form of Govemment. In theory, the new Constitution relegates the presidency to a largely
symbolic role, while the authority of the Prime Minister is substantially increased.
In early January 2001, then President Lucinschi dissolved Parliament after it failed to elect a new President
to succeed him. Early elections were held on February 25, 2001 resulting in a decisive victory for the
CPRM, who won 71 of 101 seats in Parliament. This provided a sufficient voting majority to unilaterally
elect the president, approve the president's nominee for prime minister and, if they would choose, to amend
the Constitution of Moldova and/or remove the Govemor of the National Bank of Moldova. On April 4,
2001 Mr. Vladimir Voronin, head of the CPRM, was elected President of the Republic of Moldova. With
the support of Parliament, President Voronin appointed Vasile Tarlev as Prime Minister. Soon after, the
President indicated that the largely technocratic economic team would remain in place and the independence
of the National Bank of Moldova would be respected. For better or worse, these elections have reduced the
political gridlock caused by weak coalition govemments which has hampered policy making so much in
recent years.
Outcome Appraisal. Against this background, the overall outcome of the SAC in terms of structural
adjustment has been rated satisfactory.  Despite short-term  setbacks, the overall program  was
appropriately designed, and successful at helping to establish a foundation for long-term reforms. The
most important results of the program are considered to be (a) the completion of the agricultural sector
restructuring/privatization, (b) the partial privatization of the energy sector, (c) the significant
rationalization of energy subsidies and the improvement of payment discipline in that sector. However,
delay and inconsistency in program implementation added to and prolonged the cost of adjustment. As
further elaborated in following paragraphs on the individual components of the program, results have been
rather mixed across the board, but the overall rating reflects a judgment as to what has been achieved and
the current situation as a basis for going forward with further structural reform.
4.2 Outptuts by components.
Macroeconomic Sustainabilitv. Success in achieving the first objective, ensuring the social and economic
sustainability of fiscal adjustment, was primarily to be measured in termns of IMF programs that were being
implemented in parallel. For first tranche release, the IMF's EFF program had to be in place. For second
tranche, it was agreed that continued compliance with the IMF program would suffice for the fulfillment of
the conditions relating to the economic framework. In fact the program was off-track through the summer
of 1999, owing to a larger than expected impact of the Russia crisis as well as some policy slippages. But
by August, the program was back on track and, as noted above, the first tranche was released on schedule.
A similar finding enabled the release of the second tranche of the SAC in December 2000.
Overall, macroeconomic indicators suggest that achievements in structural reforms are finally beginning to
take hold in Moldova, and on this basis, the outcome for this objective has been rated as Substantial. Real
GDP growth was 1.9 percent in 2000 and 6.1 percent in 2001. Inflation had fallen to 18 percent by the end
of 2000, and fell to under 7 percent by the end 2001. Along with inflation, real interest rates also fell
during this period. A companson of growth determinants in 2000 against those which led to brief growth
spurt in 1997 suggests that growth this time around is likely to be sustained. Despite higher energy costs
and falling revenues, the Government managed to hold the fiscal deficit on a commitment basis to under 3
percent of GDP. While in 1997 growth was largely the result of a good agricultural harvest-processed
-6 -



into inventories-combined with relatively high fiscal expenditures, in 2000 Moldova executed an austere
budget, overcame the blight of a severe drought with zero agricultural growth, reduced energy
consumption, and saw positive sales growth in "comparative advantage" sectors such as textiles, light
industry, manufacturing, wine-making, and communications. These are promising trends, which over a
five-year period can generate the needed resources to begin to seriously address Moldova's social and
capital investment needs.
Agriculture Sector Reform. The objective here was to lay the further foundation for land reform,
agricultural growth and rural development. Agriculture remains the mainstay of the Moldovan economy,
accounting for about 33 percent of the GDP, over 40 percent of employment and 65 percent of exports.
Unfortunately, by 2000 agricultural output was only around 45 percent of the pre-independence levels, and
continues to decline even while the rest of the economy is growing, albeit modestly. The SAC did not aim
to solve all problems in the sector, but importantly to focus on ownership restructuring of agricultural land,
and liberalization of policies related to agriculture and agro-processing.
The primary outcome with respect to ownership of agricultural land has been very successful. Over three
million titles have been issued and over one million land-owners have been legally established. To date,
nearly all of 1,100 state and collective farms have been privatized. At the beginning of 2001, private
individual and corporate farms own over 80 percent of agricultural land and signs are beginning to emerge
of improving agricultural productivity. However, the scale and depth of the land privatization program has
had side effects, with some agricultural officials asserting that the privatization program has contributed to
land fragmentation and "inappropriate allocation of plots". This has led to goverrment proposals to
increase interventions in land markets to engender land consolidation. But up to now, the gains that have
been made have strong public support and should remain in place.
The liberalization of the markets for agricultural products has been more mixed. At various times through
the implementation of the SAC the Government banned the export of wheat, intervened in bread markets,
proposed licensing of walnut exporters with a tax on walnut exports and proposed interventions in the
markets for a number of other agricultural products. In addition, although a USAID-fmanced study on
actions to remove the legal and regulatory impediments to the development of private agriculture and
agro-industry was completed in a timely fashion, actions based on this study were also delayed. While
these interventions have had only limited impact, and were not deemed serious enough to block release of
the SAC second-tranche, they counter the more successful outcomes in land reform so that the overall
achievements in the agricultural sector is rated as Modest.
Ener-v Sector Reform. The primary objective of energy sector reform under the SAC was to lay the
foundation for restoring financial viability of energy providers, improving efficiency of energy usage, and
ensuring a reliable energy supply to all paying customers. Achievement of this objective is also crucial to
reduce shadow forces in the economy and corruption among public official and managers of state
enterprises. Through the SAC (as well as with support from earlier adjustment operations and from
sector-specific energy projects) Moldova has achieved good progress: (a) a new, market-oriented legal
framework has been developed; (b) the sector's vertical monopolies have been unbundled; (c) an
independent energy regulatory agency (ANRE) has been established and energy tariffs (electricity and gas)
are being maintained at full cost recovery levels; and (d) budget subsidies for energy consumption have
been brought in line with budget means and targeted those in need. These actions facilitated significant
progress in 1999 and 2000 in privatization and restructuring of energy companies. The majority of shares
in Moldovagas-the country's monopoly gas supplier-have been sold to Russia's Gazprom meaning that
debt accrual to GazProm by Moldovagas is no longer a liability of the State, and three of five electricity
distribution companies (covering more than two-thirds of the market) have been sold to Union Fenosa of
Spain-a major international investor and electricity operator.  Also, the country's district heating
- 7 -



networks have been transferred from the State to municipal governments.
These achievements have already brought significant benefits.  The commercial performance of
Moldovagas has improved (although not yet to the level where it should be) and supply of gas has become
more reliable and secure. Electricity import prices to the privatized companies are dropping and the
companies have been able to supply electricity practically without interruption in the center and South of
Moldova, thus contributing to improved economic performance in those regions. Also, the Government
stopped accumulating external debt for gas and electricity imports, except for the electricity supply in
non-privatized areas.
Despite this significant progress, outcomes anticipated under the SAC program have been uneven: (a) the
head of ANRE was arbitrarily removed raising questions about real and sustainable independence of
ANRE; (b) Union Fenosa is successfully operating three distribution networks, but as it tries to restore
efficiency to the sector it is periodically harassed by certain arms of Government; (c) progress towards
privatization of the other two distribution networks and of generation is moving very slowly; and (d) while
the district heating networks are now in municipal hands they are deteriorating rapidly. Correction of these
reversals and deficiencies is a priority for further IDA-assisted adjustment and sector work. In light of the
sectors initial conditions, a rating of Substantial has been applied to the outcome of the SAC objectives
herein under review.
Private Sector Development. Private sector development under the SAC was to be fostered primarily by
across-the-board privatization that would facilitate investment and restructuring by strategic partners and
lay the foundation for growth in incomes and outputs of small and medium enterpnses. The 1999/2000
Privatization Program-the specific object of SAC support-was relatively successful at promoting the
sale of small and medium enterprises, the sale of land under enterprises and improving the privatization
process. From mid-1999 onward, all privatizations of enterprises included the land plots under enterprises,
and significant progress was made re-associating the ownership of land and assets that had been separated
by earlier privatization programs. Also, methods were adopted to generate demand for enterprises which
otherwise were unattractive because of high debt. As of November 2001, the Government had sold 1638
leased premises, 1364 plots of land under enterprises that had earlier been sold without their associated
land, and residual shares in 863 enterprises out of a total of 1480, in most cases liquidating the
Government's position in these enterprises.
As well as this general privatization, the SAC included specific components aimed at: (a) privatizing urban
real estate and creating an urban land market; and (b) privatizing certain key assets that would bring
strategic investors into important sectors. Some progress has been made in this area, but rather less than
had been anticipated under the SAC.
With respect to privatizing land associated with enterprises, as noted above the procedures have been
changed so that land and enterprises are privatized together. However there remains an "overhang" from
earlier privatization where the land is still in public hands (typically a municipality) while the enterprise is
private. In some cases municipalities are setting land prices unreasonably high so that enterprises cannot
afford to buy the land, or charging very high rents for the land that threaten the viability of some
enterprises. The Government has enacted new rules for pricing land that were meant to overcome this
problem, but it appears that such rules are not being universally applied.
In terms of privatizing important assets in key sectors, the Government has made some progress: selling
some 30 medium-sized joint-stock companies and most of the assets of the former Cereale conglomerate.
However progress towards privatizing Moldtelecom and important winery properties, both of which were
"best-efforts" components in the SAC, has been disappointingly slow. Privatization of these assets has
beeen included as an objective in the current SACIII adjustment operation.
- 8 -



Overall, the contribution of the SAC to the development of private sector has been rated as Modest.
4.3 Net Present Valiue/Economic rate of return:
n/a
4.4 Financial rate of return:
n/a
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The development of two institutions were important to the outcomes of the project and the success of their
evolution has been good. The National Agency for the Regulation of Energy (ANRE) was created under the
earlier SAL but at the outset of the SAC in 1999 its budgetary and regulatory independence were both in
question. Despite some ups and downs, with the support of SAC and a continuous World Bank dialogue
focused on perserving ANRE's independence, the agency has established itself as a legitimate and
authoritative force in the energy sector.  Later in 2000, the National Regulatory Agency in
Telecommunications and Informatics (NRATI) was established. Like ANRE, this agency is having some
set-backs as it tries to establish its independence but progress to date is satisfactory. The establishment of
these two agencies is a very important step towards the successful functioning of the private sector in these
key industries. Through these agencies the new private operators and the Government will find appropriate
ways in which to work together. The contribution of the project to institutional development in Moldova
has been rated as Modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency
Moldova was hit hard by the Russian crisis of 1998, and this continued to have an impact on the country's
econornic situation through 1999 and into 2000. In addition, a drought in the summer of 2000 and a severe
ice storm in the fall of the same year, which led to a drop in the output of agricultural commodities and a
deterioration of a big part of energy sector facilities, contributed to a slowing of some of the reform
activities.
Another important factor that caused significant delays in the implementation of the program was the weak
support of the Govemment by the Parliament and the reluctance of the latter to pass potentially unpopular
legislative measures. As pointed out earlier, a direct consequence of the weak Parliamentary support was
the frequent change of the Government. This political instability was a major contribution to the slower
than expected and uneven implementation of the reform program. Project preparation was concluded under
one Government, early implementation was under a second, while the restored Communist Government
oversaw the program's conclusion.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
While political instability slowed the implementation of the program, it was clear that substantial progress
has been made under the agreed SAC program, sufficient to justify release of the second tranche of the
SAC. Overall, the Govenmment showed a strong commitment to the program throughout the period of
implementation. Fiscal and monetary policies have generally been sound and have maintained
macroeconomic stability. In some cases, however, the Govenmment was unable to fully deliver promised
structural reforms. Among these are the privatization of the two remaining electricity distribution
companies, the telecommunication company and a number of wineries.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
-9-



n/a
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original project cost was SDR 29.6 million (USS40 million equivalent), all of which was to be financed
under the IDA credit. The first tranche release of US$20 million equivalent was made on schedule at the
time the project was declared effective in August 1999. Release of the second tranche of the same amount
was originally projected for around December 1999.
Following extensive supervision and review, second tranche release was actually made in December 2000.
At that time, the Government of the Netherlands decided to support the program with a USSI0 million
grant. A USS5 million supplement, to mitigate some of the budgetary impact of the ice-storm damage, was
approved by IDA and released in December 2001. At that time, just prior to project closing, the
Netherlands approved a second USSIO million grant.
Thus, by project closure, total costs and financing had increased to US$65 million, of which US$45 million
from IDA and USS20 million from the Government of the Netherlands.
6. Sustainabilitv
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilitv r ating:
Actions taken under the SAC program are largely irreversible and will have long-term positive effects on
Moldova. Sustainability of the reforms initiated under the SAC is thus rated as likely, although they will
not go without future challenge. The present Governrment continues to exhibit a commitment to working
with the Bank but is also exhibiting a mixed commitment to a deepening of the reforms. While the pursuit
of short-term interests may challenge reforms efforts in Moldova, the desire of the administration and the
population to move forward, based on the significant and irreversible progress already achieved, will likely
continue to outweigh the forces hampering continued reform efforts.
To build upon progress achieved during the SAC, a new adjustment operation (SAC III) was agreed
recently with the Government. It will support two broad agendas: (i) reforms to reduce poverty through
improving monitoring and evaluation of poverty reduction measures, improvement of the education system
and the efficiency of health care delivery; and (ii) reforms to improve the bussines environment through
implementation of hard budget constraints and improvement of fiduciary management, maintaining liberal
policies in agricultureand further development of land and credit markets, securing the financial viability of
the power sector by completing change of ownership/management control of the power companies and
assuring the independence of energy regulator, reducing administrative barriers to business entry and exit,
and the liberalization/privatization of the telecom and winery sectors. Structural adjustment operations
have been complemented by sector specific investment programs. The Bank and the Government have
recently completed negotiations on two investment projects - one in agriculture, the other in energy - that
aim at advancing reforms in these sectors.
6.2 Transition arr-anigement to regular operations.
While not directly relevant to an adjustment operation such as the SAC, it is interesting to see how the new
Government seems to be accepting the inevitability of the general direction of the reforms that have been
implemented. With further operations in the pipe-line, there are strong indications that the reform package
will become "regular operation" for the Government and people of Moldova.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
- 10 -



7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance was satisfactory. This is primarily borne out by the relevance of the objectives
and project design to the specifics of the Moldova situation. Moreover, the operation built upon the
reforms undertaken under previous adjustment operations, and effectively used the knowledge gained and
the lessons leamed from those operations.  The Bank also responded quickly to the needs of the
country-the operation was prepared, processed and declared effective within just six months, with intense
involvement with Govemment counterparts, and in close coordination with the Intemational Monetary
Fund. Then, when it became clear that the project objectives should be modified as a result of the ice storm
damage in the winter of 2000, the Bank responded quickly to this need with proposals for supplemental
credit. (Actual approval of the credit was delayed, however, at Bank staff's request, until some policy
reversals were brought back on track).
7.2 Stupervision:
The Bank's performance here has been rated as highly satisfactory. The technical teams supervising
specific components of the operation were of high caliber, and quickly eamed the respect of the various
counterparts. Project supervision was sometimes made difficult by the changes in Govermment, and
wavering Govemment focus on pursuing some of the reforms, but the application of appropriate leverage at
all levels of Government was effective at eventually bringing the Project back on track. Supervision
missions were effective and well documented, and supervision reports were widely distributed.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's performance overall was satisfactory. Operationally, the project design was realistic and well
prepared with aggressive supervision being carried out by high calibre staff. Thus, had there been a
constant and aggressive application of the reform program by the Moldovan Government, the project would
likely have achieved all of its objectives within the time-frame originally envisaged.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.
Borrower performance during project preparation has been rated satisfactory. Prior to Board presentation
the Borrower showed a high level of proactivity and commitment to the project. As detailed above, and in
the President's Report for the operation, considerable up-front policy action was taken by the Authorities
prior to Board presentation, with good subsequent follow up on policy actions after Board approval.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance varied through the period of implementation but was overall
satisfactory. For the most part, Government ownership of the reform program was real and reform goals
were met. Because of the changing political landscape progress in reaching the programs goals was thus
noticeably slower than expected, which increased the cost of the transformation and reduced the net positive
outcome. In short, the changes in government led to performance that was characterized as stop and go.
As a result, the second tranche was released one year later than expected.
7.6 Implemeniting Agency:
There was no implementing agency, The borrower of record was the Ministry of Finance. The borrower's
perfornance is rated in the following section.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. Given the political upheaval and the considerable actions
necessary on the part of the Borrower to implement the project, completion of the key objectives is a good
- 11 -



overall indication of commitment and performance.
8. Lessons Learned
It is important to adequately take into account the political economy of the evolving situation. The reaction
of certain key stake-holders (including ordinary Moldovan citizens, many of whom were already in
economically-depressed circumstances) to some of the reforms led directly to the political reversals that
side-lined the early champions for reform. Not surprisingly, as new leaders emerged in parliament and in
the Govenmment more generally, they re-evaluated some of the activities that had led to the downfall of their
predecessors, and re-thought some of the directions towards which the Moldovan economy has committed
itself. Realistically, there is no going back to the earlier period of guaranteed markets for agricultural
products and subsidized prices for energy. But in a democratic society, the capacity of an administration to
deliver difficult policy objectives while maintaining adequate public support has to be taken into account.
Delays in implementing certain of the agreed measures did lead to some reduction in effectiveness of the
program supported under the SAC. Going forward, the challenge will be to balance the need for rapid
undertaking of all of those measures that will improve the country's capacity to develop and withstand
fiurther economic shocks, with a recognition that in order to be able to deliver on any reform program, the
Government will have to retain an adequate level of parliamentary and popular support.
Improved public expenditure management requires fundamental change in the Government's range of
commitments. Efforts based on attempts to control expenditures from only an administrative perspective
will have limited success.  Underlying structural reforms necessary to reduce commitments require
identification of priorities, decision-taking, and implementation.
Although path-breaking, the agricultural privatization program has not yet led to a highly productive
agricultural sector. For the future, post-privatization market development and support are needed to help
contribute more quickly to an upswing in agricultural production and the development of rural wealth.
For energy, as in the past the priority must be to bring in more competent private operators who have the
technical know-how and financial resources to restore sector efficiency. This vision will only become a
reality when the necessary financial and regulatory conditions are in place that will give private operators
the confidence to come forward. Energy prices are among the most politically sensitive of all reform
measures, and the Government program of targeting energy subsidies directly to the most disadvantaged of
Moldovan citizens may be a necessary part of sustaining the necessary support to implement these
measures.
Finally, the privatization program under the SAC was not sufficiently deep. This can be attributed first, to
an unattractive investment climate for both foreign and domestic investors, with lack of transparency and a
poor business environment. In addition, there has been a lack of political willingness to touch some
industries that were considered to be "jewels" of the State. The result has been that a significant portion of
Moldova's productive capacity remains in State ownership and control, while almost invariably the
financial viability of these companies continues to deteriorate. This has placed a burden on the economy
through a continuation of soft budget constraints, by under-employment of human capital, and by keeping
other assets from more productive uses. In most cases, it has also left the companies in question
undesirable to true strategic investors. The broad lesson here is that delays in privatization of attractive
state enterprises, even in the fact of strong political opposition, should be avoided if at all possible.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implenmenting agencyv:
- 12 -



The Project
The Credit/Loan Agreement on the Second Structural Adjustment Project in the amount of USS40 million
was signed on July 6, 1999. Its priority was support to the Govemment's reform program aiming to
resume economic growth and to improve the living standards in Moldova.
The project intended to achieve its main objectives through the implementation of crucial reforms,
particularly (i) ensuring the social and economic sustainability of fiscal adjustment, (ii) laying the further
foundation for land reform, agricultural growth and rural development, (iii) restoring the financial viability
of energy providers, improving the efficiency of energy usage, and ensuring a reliable energy supply to all
paying customers, and (iv) supporting private sector development by facilitating investment and
restructuring by strategic partners, and laying the foundation for growth in incomes and outputs of small
and medium enterprises.
As a consequence of a severe ice storm in November 2000, one more objective was added to the project:
(v) mitigation of the financial costs to Government of dealing with damage to energy sector facilities.
Taking this into account additionally an equivalent of US5S million was extended to the Govemment on
November 21, 2001.
The main objective, that of resumption of growth, has been fulfilled. At the same time, the results of
implementation of some of the Project's individual components has not always been satisfactory in
comparison with what was initially planned due to some political and economic developments.
The Project and the Government Strategy
The project objectives were in line with the country's strategy, which emphasizes growth and improvements
in the living standards of population. Some key lessons have been leamed.
On the positive side:
*      The adjustment framework has created favorable conditions for sustainable growth and structural
reforms achievements
*      Notwithstanding unfavorable weather conditions and economic situation the Government managed
to keep the fiscal deficit on a very low level, which combined with sustainable growth of the economy
opens a window of opportunity for the Government to address social, capital investment and poverty
reduction needs of Moldova in the future.
*      Substantial progress in privatization and establishment of market oriented legal framework within
energy sector of Moldova was achieved. It helped to reduce corruption, develop sector's competitiveness,
to use more efficiently budget subsidies for energy consumption, and to stop accumulation of extemal debt
for gas and electricity imports
*      The government continued to support private sector development which can became an engine of
future economic development
There were also weaknesses in the SAC implementation:
*      Although modest progress in the reform of agriculture sector has been achieved through the
implementation of ownership restructuring of agricultural land and liberalization of policies related to
agriculture and agro-processing, the share of agricultural sector in GDP remains declining and a lot of
problems of this sector remain unsolved.
*      While a lot of positive changes took place in the energy sector, still some deficiencies have to be
tackled within further IDA assisted adjustment program.
- 13 -



*      The process of privatization has already brought some positive results for private sector
development but there are some key areas where the process of privatization is very slow.
While we acknowledge these weaknesses and are committed to overcome them, we would like to mention
the fact that some external factors, beyond the control of Moldova, contributed to them, particularly
continued impact of Russian crisis of 1998 and unfavorable weather conditions in 2000 and 2001. The
speed of the process of reforms implementation was also influenced greatly by frequent changes of the
Govemrnment.
The following brief comments provide a view on sectoral achievements under the project.
Macro-Economic performance
Measures were undertaken in order to stimulate growth by reducing the rate of inflation, increasing the
revenue collection and executing an austere budget in compliance with IMF program.
Agriculture
Implementation of land reform and foundation for agricultural growth and rural development were
developed through the issuance of titles and legal establishment of landowners, privatization of state and
collective farms.
Energy
A new market-oriented framework has been developed for the energy sector, an independent energy
regulatory agency has been created and sector's vertical monopolies have been unbundled.
Private Sector Development
Several important measures were taken by the Government to support private sector development and to
contribute to the growth in incomes and outputs of small and medium enterprises, such as: adoption of the
privatization program, the sale of land under enterprises, improving privatization process, elaboration of
methods to make attractive enterprises with high debt and privatizing urban real estate and creating an
urban land market.
Looking forward to the future, Moldovan authorities are going to use the experience of the SAC for the
implementation of structural reforms. The assistance of the World Bank in this process is fully
appreciated.
(b) Cofinanciers.
Government of the Netherlands
The SAC programme for the Republic of Moldova has proved to be a challenging project. Both the
economic conditions (vulnerability to external shocks, lack of economic diversification) and the political
conditions (relatively high level of political instability, the Transnistrian conflict) under which the project
was launched were far from optimal. In addition, the extremely sharp economic decline since the beginning
of the economic transition process in the early l990s had already led to faltering popular and political
support for a consistent policy of structural reform prior to the SAC programme. In this respect, at the time
the objectives of the SAC project were formulated as well as during the implementation period itself more
direct attention could have been given to the political economy of the specific Moldovan situation and to the
negative social impact of the economic reform process on most of the Moldovan population.
The overall result of the SAC project has been satisfactory. Despite the difficult circumstances noted
above, subsequent governments managed to achieve substantial results in the economic reform
programme, most notably in FY2000. Strong economic growth and significantly improved performance in
- 14 -



key sectors of the economy in 2001 showed that the implementation of structural reforrms during the project
period were clearly producing effects. However, the government's hesitance in building on these gains by
convincingly implementing further reforms and its seemingly wavering support for the project during its the
final phase have given rise to some concern as to its commitment to and ownership of the reform process in
the upcoming period.
The SAC programme is likely to be sustainable but, as has rightly been pointed out by the Bank, it will
certainly not go unchallenged. Although strictly outside the scope of this report, this observation warrants a
few comments on the continuation of the structural reform process. Further progress should to be made
with regard to the four components of the SAC project. In particular the government's performance in the
overall pnvatization process and with respect to the reform of the energy sector could be improved. In
addition, the economic reform process will have to be supported by a comprehensive reform of the public
sector in which such issues as corruption, transparency and institutional capacity will have to be addressed.
If not properly taken into account these issues will remain an impediment to further economic growth.
Finally, both macro-economic and public sector reforms should be carried out within the framework of an
overall poverty reduction strategy. In this respect, adequate attention should be given to a successful
conclusion of the PRSP-process in Moldova.
(c) Otlher partners (/NGOs/private sector):
nla
10. Additional Information
n/a
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicratorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Lower expenditure commitments to                                         Partially achieved/in progress Moldova has
conform to revenues, in order to reduce the                                 maintained a dramatic fiscal consolidation of
build-up of arrears and ensure fiscal stability                             over 7.5% of GDP since 1998, and has
and macroeconomic stabilizabon.                                             stayed current on debt service payments
The fiscal tightening was achieved through a
rationalization of energy consumption by
budgetary insttubons and efforts to improve
efficiency within the education and health
sectors. This included the closing of
underutilized and poorly maintained village
hospitals, increases in class sizes and a
partial hiring freeze of both health and
educabion employees. In parallel, the
Govemment succeeded in increasing the
revenues and reduced significantly the stock
of expenditure arrears (mostly wage and
pension arrears).
2 Complete the restructuring of former
collecive and state farms into
market-conforming, efficiency-motvated
units                                                                       Achieved A satsfactory law was passed in
(a) Adoption of a law to expedite the                                       1999.
settlement of farm debt
Achieved As of December 2000. land and
(b) Satisfactory progress towards completion                                property tenders have been held in 923
of a National Farm Restructuring Program,                                   farms, the liquidation process was completed
including pnvatization of 600 farms and                                     for 804 farms
liquidation of 300 successor farms
Achieved Titles were issued for over 75
(c) Continued progress in titling of                                        percent of agncultural land, and tites have
agricultural land, covering 40% of all such                                 been received by landowners from Pnmanas
land                                                                        for over 68 percent of agrcultural land.
3 Maintain liberal policies for agriculture and                             Partially achieved: There were some
agro-processing                                                             intervenbons by the Govemment in the
(a) Maintain subsidy and taxation policies as                               agncultural market during the implementation
agreed with the World Bank.                                                 of the project, however, these actions had
been corrected by the time of tranche
release.
(b) Properly implement the Agnculture                                       Achieved, Despite some breaches in
Support Fund (ASF) for private farmers                                      implementation, in general the ASF was
widely considered to be effective as a signal
to pnvate farmers that the Govemment only
supports them, as a source of liquidity for
planting and harvest activites, and as a form
of social assistance to help offset both the
psychological and physical burden on
farmers and their families during the difficult
(c) Initate a study on possibilities for                                    period of transition.
regulatory and administrative improvements                                  Achieved The study has been completed
to facilitate domestic and foreign investments                              and. in some respects, recommendations are
in agriculture and agro-processing                                          being implemented.
4 Develop an appropnate regulatory
framework and the institubonal capacity to                                  Achieved. ANRE has overseen a couple of
implement it                                                                necessary adjustments to energy prices
(a) Ensure that ANRE has the tools and the                                  required as a result of rising input pnces
authority to allow adjustments in energy                                    There remain, however some residual
prices as necessary to maintain cost recovery                               concems about the agency's future
independence and authority
(c) Ensure that ANR E's authority as the sole
administrator of licenses in the electricity and                            Achieved The necessary amendments to
- 16-



gas sectors will not be limited by other laws                               licensing laws that had been a cause of
and/or regulabons                                                           concem in this matter have been made and
published.
5. Restore the energy sector's financial
equilibrium and reduce energy-related
budgetary arrears
(a) Eliminate pnvileges for energy supply                                   Achieved. The Parliament approved a
except those within a fully financed targeted                               nominative compensabon law, targeted at
subsidy scheme for the most vulnerable                                     low-income solitary pensioners and people
segments of the population                                                  with disabilities. All other energy privileges
have been eliminated
6. Impose financial discipline, hard budget
constraints, and improve the quality of energy
services for consumers by demonopoliation
and privatization of the energy sector.
(a) Conclude privatzabon of electricity                                     Achieved: Three of the five power
distribution companies for which satisfactory                               distributon companies have been sold to a
bids are received, and initiate pnvatization of                             strategic investor (Union Fenosa of Spain)
generabng companies
(b) Prepare a time-bound plan, and make                                    Achieved: The Govemment completed in
satisfactory progress in its implementation,                                1999 the establishment of Moldovagas JSC
for the commercializabon of Moldovagas and                                  with a controlling majority of shares owned by
the sale of the Govemment's shareholding                                    RAO Gazprom The process of selling the
residual state shares is delayed partially as a
(c) Develop a restructuring plan and make                                   result of changing Govemment commitment
sabsfactory progress towards its                                            and pnorities.
implementabon                                                               Achieved. District heating has been
restructured and reorganized along more
commercial lines. Much remains to be done,
however, to make these operabons viable.
7. Lay the basis for growth in industry and
services by pnvatizing small, medium and                                    Achieved: Much remains to be
large businesses                                                           Acivd      uhrmisteprivatized, but
large businesses                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the targets established under SAC have been
(a) Enact and implement a pnvatzation                                       larget
program satisfactory to the Association                                    largely met
8. Privatize urban real estate and create an                                Achieved: Targets for pnvatzabon of small
urban land market                                                           assets and leased units have been met, but
(a) Conbnue and accelerate the privatization                               land sales under privatized units are still very
of small assets, leased units and land under                                slow as normative prices remain high
private unts
Partially achieved. New rules for pncing land
(b) Enact necessary legislabon to reduce the                                have been agreed, but the applicaton of
normabve prce of land under prvate and                                      these rules is sometimes quesbonable. The
privafized enterprises.                                                     Govemment has agreed to set up an appeal
mechanism for such cases
9. Create the environment for accelerating                                  Partally achieved Some residual shares
the process of ownership change                                             have been sold, and some resizal   at
(a) Sell residual State-owned shares in all                                 symbeen sold, as takepnvatceaon at
JSC's that remain from the mass                                             symbolic shares has taken place. Much
privatizabon, and encourage pnvatizabon at a                                remains to be done to really accelerate the
symbolic price with a commitment for                                       transfer of minor state holdings to private
investment                                                                  hands.
(b) Increase flexibility for privatzabon by                                 Achieved: Most assets have been listed as
reducng the necessity for pariamentary                                     for sale without further pariiamentary
approval in individual cases, and offer for                                 approval Controlling blocks of shares in 30
sale through intemational tender controlling                                JSC's have been advertised for sale and
blocks of shares in 30 JSCs                                                 most have been sold.
(c) Develop proposals for the individual                                    Partially achieved: Financial advisors have
privatization of 3-4 wineries                                               been hired for this work, and two wineries
have been offered for sale. The advisors'
contracts have lapsed, however, and the
offers received for the two wineries were not
satisfactory. New efforts are underway to
(d) Pnvatize the remaining units of Cereale                                re-energize this pnority.
- 17 -



Achieved: All independenty viable units of
(e) Create an independent regulatory                                         Cereale have been pnvatized
authority for the telecommunications industry,                               Achieved NRATI has been created and is
arrange for the audit of Moldtelecom; and hire                                  ieved       The     crent as
Investment bankers to prepare Moldtelec,om                                   now in operation. The Government has
for privatmzanron.                                                           agreed to the sale of 51% of the shares of
for pdvabzabon.                                                 Moldtelecom  An audit of the company is
underway and an investment bank has been
retained to arrange for its pnvatizabon.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
End of project
- 18-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in USS million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Adjustment through policy reform                      40.00           65.00          162.5
Total Baseline Cost                                   40.00           65.00
Total Project Costs              40.00           65.00
Total Financing Required               40.00          65.00
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.                          ~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal 
Component            Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate                    I
IDA      Govt.     CoF.     IDA       Govt.    CoF.    IDA   Govt.  CoF.
Adjustment through policy  40.00  0.00     0.00     45.00     0.00     20.00   112.5  0.0    0.0
reform
- 19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
n/a
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
MonthlYear     Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
IdentificationAPreparation
02115/1999                   9    1 Mission leader                  S             S
2 Agriculture experts
2 Energy experts
I Privatization expert
I Economist
I Coordinator
I Sector leader
AppraisaUNegotiation
04/01/1999                   9    1 Mission leader                  S             S
2 Agriculture experts
3 Energy experts
1 Privatization expert
1 Fiscal expert
1 Analyst/coordinator
I Sector leader
Supervision
7/10/1999                    7   Project team leader and            HS            HS
sector experts in agriculture,
energy, telecommunications
and privatization,
coordinator
10/1511999                   7   as above                           S             S
03/12/2000                   7   as above                           S             S
06/30/2000                   7   as above                           HS            HS
11/07/2000                   7   as above                          HS            HS
ICR
0210112002                   2    Project team leader and ICR
Project Reviewer
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USS ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 35                         126
Appraisal/Negotiation                      25                          90
Supervision                               120                         453
ICR                                         6                          25
Total                                     186                         694
- 21 -



Annex S. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible. NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ZMacro policies                         O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
Z Sector Policies                       O H  O SU *M    O N   0 NA
Z Physical                              O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
 Financial                             O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Z Institutional Development             0 H  0 SU * M   0 N   0 NA
Z Environmental                         O H O SU O M    O N   * NA
Social
El Povertv Reduction              0 H  0 SU 0 M   0 N   * NA
f Gender                          O H  O SU O M   O N   * NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
El Private sector development           0 H  0 SU * M   0 N   0 NA
Z Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M   0 N   * NA
COther (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
Z Lending                                          OHS OS       OU     OHU
 Supervision                                      *HS OS       OU     O HU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
 Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU     O HU
 Government implementation performance            O HS OS      O U    0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       OU     O HU
F Overall                                          OHS OS       OU     O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
lReport No. P-7317-MD, Structural Adjustment Credit President's Report
2.Bank Supervision Mission Aides-Memoires, July 1999-October 2000
- 24 -












IMAGING
Report No.:        24236
Type:     ICR



