P7431
Report No. P-743 1 -MD
From: The President                                         January 24, 2001
Republic of Moldova - Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit No. 3256 MD)
Request for a Supplemental Credit in an amount of SDR 4 million
(US$ 5 million equivalent)
1.    I submit for your approval the following recommendation on a proposed supplemental
credit of SDR 4 million-(US$ 5 million equivalent) to the Republic of Moldova on standard IDA
terms with a maturity of 35 years, to be added to the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC). The
proposed supplement would help the Government to finance a gap created by the need to
address damages and to make social expenditures in response to a severe ice storm which
took place in November 2000.
2.    The Structural Adjustment Credit tc Moldova in the arnount of SDR 29.6 million was
approved by the Executive Directors on Jure 24, 1999 (IDA/R99-118). The Credit Agreement
was signed on July 6, 1999, became effectix - on August 10, 1999, and the first tranche of SDR
14.8 million (US$ 20 million equivalent) was disbursed on August 11, 1999. The program of
economic reform  supported by the SAC focuses on agriculture, energy and enterprise
privatization. Iin agriculture, the SAC mantains momentum for land reform, supports new
private farmers, and begins to lay the foundation for a restructuring of agro-processing. The
SAC supports a rationalization and targeting of entitlements for energy to Moldovan citizens,
while improving the Government's track record of paying its energy bills. The SAC implements
a privatization process for electricity distribution companies, electricity generation companies
and the gas company. It also initiates a process that should lead to privatizing the district heating
companies. Finally, the SAC supports implementation of an enterprise privatization program
covering the years 1999-2000 with special emphasis on attracting strategic foreign investors to
Moldova. Considerable progress has been achieved and continues in all of these areas. Upon
full compliance with the Credit Agreement, the second tranche of SDR 14.8 million (US$ 20
million equivalent) was disbursed on December 21, 2000 (See SEC report SecM2000-755). The
closing date of the SAC was extended on December 21, 2000 by three months to March 31, 2001
to facilitate this proposed supplemental credit.
3.    The November ice storm caused great damage to the power distribution network, as well
as to telecommunications, forests and agriculture. The width of the ice which clung to network
structures and trees reached 10 centimeters in some places. As a result, the power grid was down
and related power infrastructure severely damaged, water supply, sewage systems and
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Roger Grawe
Sector Director:    Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader:        Mark S. Davis






telecommunications were not working, and as a result, many schools, hospitals and businesses
were not able to operate. Before emergency steps were taken, natural gas was the only source of
energy through much of the affected zone. The most affected area covers roughly the northern
third of Moldova, including about 550 localities with a total population of more than 700,000
people, roughly half of whom are below an absolute poverty line of 12 US dollars per month.
Based on Government estimates and supplemented by a damage evaluation report prepared for
the World Bank by an outside energy expert, damages to electricity and telecom lines,
agricultural lands, and forests are conservatively estimated at 255 million lei (about US$ 20
million), of which at least 180 million lei (US$ 13.5 million) represent direct costs to the
Government.
4.    After the ice storm, the Government took immediate action to minimize the human and
economic impact of the damage, primarily by attempting to restore critical electricity supply.
Initial emergency measures include, (a) supplying emergency power by mobile generators to run
water and sewerage systems, (b) provision of temporary energy supply to some hospitals and
police stations, (c) weekly public health checks and/or disinfection of potable water wells in
every village, (d) ensuring that every village has access to at least one working telephone line,
and (e) rebuilding of priority high-voltage power lines. After taking stock of the damages, the
Government has undertaken a second round of power-line reconstruction which it hopes to
complete by the end of February, 2001. Works to date have been funded through current
revenues, supplier credits and all available financial and material support from neighboring
countries and donors.
5.    This disaster happened at a difficult moment, as the Moldovan Authorities are in the
midst of negotiating sale of the North and North-West power distribution companies to Union
Fenosa (of Spain).' While there is an emergency need to get the power system back up and to
make some rehabilitation prior to privatization, full restoration of the pre-storm grid is neither
feasible nor advisable. However, as described above, an emergency response means up-front
costs to the Government for which they are re-channeling current revenues, compounded by loss
of privatization and tax proceeds later on, which implies lower revenues available for other
expenditures in an already austere 2001 budget. As clarified during negotiations, drawing on the
proposed supplement would require Parliamentary approval of an amendment to the 2001
Budget Law, while a Government decree would establish a Special Fund for National
Calamities. Supplemental resources would be disbursed through this Special Fund and would
primarily finance import components (cables, towers, diesel fuel, etc.), some labor costs and
other domestic components.  Any funds from  the supplemental credit not directly and
immediately used for emergency relief would constitute general external financing and thus
would be available to fund priority needs that earlier were delayed in order to re-channel funds to
address ice storm damages.
6.    Restructuring and privatization of the power sector while providing targeted assistance to
vulnerable groups of Moldovans, is a centerpiece of both the April 1999 CAS and the Structural
Adjustment Credit. It has also been identified as one of the key mechanisms for achieving the
IUnion Fenosa recently purchased the Central, South and South-West distribution networks, and is making
emergency repairs to the electricity grid in those regions of Moldova. It should also be noted that these distribution
companies are expected to access as US$ 50 million loan from EFC and EBRD in the near future to assist with
funding a previously scheduled program of capital investments.






2-e
objectives of the I-PRSP. A continued emergency response is needed in order to facilitate
privatization and for quickly getting energy supplies back to consumers. However, in the
absence of extraordinary assistance, and in the context of the appropriate macroeconomic
framework agreed with the IMF and the World Bank, the additional external financing gap
created by the storm would be borne by the government and would reduce resources available to
finance the targeted energy assistance program, energy sector reforms, and other priority
programs. The unanticipated gap in financing thus jeopardizes reforms which are otherwise
proceeding on schedule and in compliance with the agreed policy agenda. The proposed
supplement is therefore crucial for maintaining momentum for the reform program described in
the I-PRSP and the CAS, and supported by the SAC.
7.    The Government plans to acquire the services of the auditor of the National Bank of
Moldova (NBM) to conduct an audit to verify that the proceeds of the Credit were deposited in a
dollar account at the NBM, and that a local currency equivalent was then transferred to the
Government's Treasury account at the NBM from which budgetary disbursements are made.
The Governmhent plans to complete the audit and make it available to the World Bank within one
month after the disbursement of the supplemental credit. Public sector financial management by
the Ministry of Finance, carried out via the State Treasury, has earned credibility in recent years
through its track record of budget execution. Credibility is heightened by stewardship services
offered by the NBM, which has received praise from the IMF regarding its management of
fiduciary responsibilities. Finally, in addition to an audit prepared by the NBM's auditor, the
Chamber of Accounts of Parliament, the media, and a small follow-up SAC supervision mission,
will all verify, from different perspectives, that funding was allocated as agreed.
8.    Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed Supplemental Credit complies with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
January 24, 2001
2 A Joint Staff Assessment of the I-PRSP was reviewed by the Boards of the World Bank and IMF in December
2000.



