Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7317-MD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29.6 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
May 28, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



Republic of Moldova - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Currency Equivalents
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2, 1999)
Currency Unit = leu (plural lei) (MDL)
MDL  =USO.12
US$ = MDL $8.73
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
ARIA        -       Agency for Restructuring and Enterprise Assistance
CAS        -       Country Assistance Strategy
CIS       -       Comnmonwealth of Independent States
DMP        -       Debt Management Plan
EBRD        -       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EFF       -       Extended Fund Facility
FSU        -      Forner Soviet Unlion
FY       -       Fiscal Year
GDP        -       Gross Domestic Product
GTZ        -       German Technical Assistance Agency
IDA       -       International Development Association
IBRD        -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC       -       International Financial Corporation
IMF       -       International Monetary Fund
INCON        -       Joint Stock Company - Agricultural Produce (Moldova)
JSC       -       Joint Stock Company
LDP        -       Letter of Development Policy
LIBOR        -       London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MIGA        -       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
PP       -       Privatization Plan
PSD       -       Private Sector Development
PSRC        -       Public Sector Reform Credit
RAO Gazprom        -       Joint Stock Company - Natural Gas (Russia)
SAL        -       Structural Adjustment Loan (Credit/Loan)
SDR        -       Special Drawing Rights
SOE        -       State-Owned Enterprises
SSC       -       Strategic Studies Center
TACIS        -       Technical Assistance for the CIS (European Union)
UNDP        -       United Nations Development Programme
USAID        -       United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Johannes Linn (ECAVP)
Country Director: Roger Grawe (ECC07)
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra (ECSPE)
Team Leader: Mark Davis (ECSPE)



REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Credit Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Moldova
Amount:                    Credit in the amount of SDR  29.6 million (US$ 40
equivalent)
Terms:                     The credit will be payable in thirty-five years, including ten
years of grace, on standard IDA terms.
Commitment Fee/            Variable rate between 0.0% - 0.5% of the undisbursed credit
Service Charge             balance, set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA, and
beginning 60 days after signing.
Objectives and Description:  The proposed credit would support the Govemment's reform
program, necessary to create conditions for a resumption of
growth and an improvement of the living standards in Moldova.
To achieve this goal, the SAC is designed to carry forward the
reform program started under SAL II. SAL II focused on four
areas: (a) pension reform, (b) land privatization and farm
restructuring, (c) unbundling the energy enterprises and starting
the process of privatization, and (d) enterprise privatization -
particularly small scale. The proposed SAC, will focus on
continuing the privatization process in agriculture, energy and
the enterprise sector.  In agriculture, the focus will be on
maintaining momentum for land reform, supporting new private
farmers, and laying the foundations for a restructuring of agro-
processing. In energy, the SAC will support completion of the
privatization process for electricity distribution companies, as
well as substantive progress towards privatizing the electricity
generation companies and the gas company. It will also initiate a
process that should lead to privatizing the district heating
companies. Finally, the SAC will support implementation of a
new enterprise privatization program covering the years 1999-
2000 which will emphasis the importance of attracting strategic
foreign investors to Moldova.
Benefits:                  The credit would provide budgetary support that will help the
Govemment in consolidating economic stabilization, bolstering
foreign reserves, and servicing external debt. At the same time,
the reform program supported by the credit will address key
bottlenecks in the privatization of the energy sector, farms, and
enterprises and enhance the prospects of long-term growth and
improved living standards.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Risks:                     The operation has three major risks.  The greatest risk is
political. While the current Government has strong ownership of
the reform program, it may be hampered by in-fighting within
the coalition. Second, the reform efforts may be hampered by
weak implementation capacity of Government, especially in the
energy sector. Finally, a macro-financial crisis could emerge,
caused by new and or reoccurring external shocks and/or by the
lack of sufficient external financing in the aftermath of the
Russia crisis.
The operation seeks to minimize the overall risk by ensuring that
a major part of the reform agenda is front-loaded. Most of the
core reforns under the program will have already been taken by
the Board date. In the case of energy privatization, the process
will be well under way. Implementation will be mostly in the
hands of an investment bank, and there will be very little
political will required until the final stages of the operation. To
mitigate political risks, the Government, with support from the
Association, has been carrying out an extensive dialogue with
many elements of civil society. A public education campaign,
including regular roundtable discussions led by the Resident
Mission, has helped explain the reform program and build broad-
based support for it. To alleviate the risks of the program caused
by weak implementation capacity of Government, essential
elements of the TA program are in place with the help of
bilateral donors, to support key elements of the program
(including farm restructuring and electricity privatization). As
for macroeconomic risk, the Association will closely monitor the
macroeconomic framework, in cooperation with the IMF and
continue efforts to work with bilateral and multilateral partners
to provide Moldova with sufficient concessional resources.
Schedule of Disbursement   - SDR 14.8 million (equivalent to US$ 20 million) immediately
after effectiveness (expect August, 1999).
- SDR 14.8 million (equivalent to US$ 20 million) to be
disbursed upon satisfaction of second tranche release conditions
(expected about December, 1999).
Poverty Category          Not applicable.
Project ID Number          MD-PE-61496
Map                       IBRD No. 24285R3.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONTEXT                                                  1
A. The Economy                                                                    1
B. The Political Economy of Reforms                                               4
C. Recent Economic Developments                                                   6
H. THE REFORM PROGRAM                                                             8
A. Program Objectives                                                             8
B. Creating a Flexible and Competitive Private Sector in Agriculture              9
C. De-Monopolizing and Privatizing the Energy Sector                              11
D. Accelerating Enterprise Privatization and Attracting Strategic Investors      14
III. LINKS WITH BANK PROGRAM AND OTHER PARTNERS                                   16
A. The Proposed Credit is Central to the Country Assistance Strategy             16
B. Bank Operations                                                                17
C. Benefits and Risks: Political Support, Macro Uncertainty, and Supply Response  18
D. Collaboration with IMF and Other Donors                                       19
IV. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS                                                        20
V. RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT                                                21



ANNEXES
Annex 1:     Macroeconomic Framework and Background
Table 1: Main Economic Indicators
Table 2: Balance of Payments
Table 3: Debt Indicators
Table 4: Moldova at a Glance
Annex 2:     Status of Bank Group Operations and Status of IFC Operations
Annex 3:     Timetable of Key Processing Events and Staffing
Annex 4:     Letter of Development Policy
Annex 5:     Matrix of Policy Conditionality
BOXES
Box 1        Project Risks and Mitigation Measures



May 28, 1999
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THIE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
1. I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Structural
Adjustment Credit to the Republic of Moldova for SDR 29.6 million (amount equivalent to US$
40 million) to provide support for the Government's economic reform program.
2. The credit will be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years including a grace
period of 10 years, and would be disbursed in two tranches: SDR 14.8 million (equivalent to US$
20 million) immediately after effectiveness, and SDR 14.8 million (equivalent to US$ 20 million)
to be disbursed upon satisfaction of second tranche release conditions (expected about December
1999).
3. The Republic of Moldova joined the IBRD on August 12, 1992, MIGA on June 9, 1993, and
IDA on June 14, 1994.
I. ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONTEXT
A. THE ECONOMY
>  Moldova has faced hard economic times in its transition to a market economy-marked by
success in economic stabilization, but slow execution of structural reforms.
> The implementation of structural reforms in Moldova has followed a cyclical pattern, with
intervals of rapid and comprehensive reforms being succeeded by periods ofpolicy stasis.
>  The Russian crisis in late 1998 undermined the effects of a particularly active and
comprehensive period of structural reforms, by deepening Moldova 'sfiscal crisis and
lowering its trade-related growth possibilities.
4. Moldova' s independence in 1991 brought with it considerable disruption of traditional trade
linkages and payment systems, and a traumatic exposure to world prices. By 1994, the
combination of a large terms-of-trade shock (30 percent of GDP' in 1992 prices), a decline in the
demand for its exports, and severe weather (droughts, hurricanes and floods) had crippled the
country. Almost three-fourths of industry was at a standstill, agriculture was declining, and GDP
was just over 40 percent of its 1990 level. Inflation soared, cresting at about 2,200 percent in
1992.
l Throughout this report GDP is reported excluding Transnistria.



5. Since 1993, Moldova has rapidly stabilized its economy, and has started structural reforms.
Financial stabilization, supported by the IMF (through an STF, two stand-by arrangements and an
EFF), had been Moldova's most visible economic policy success until 1998. A new currency
was introduced in 1993, and monetary and fiscal policy tightened. Inflation fell to an annual rate
of around 15 percent in 1996, then one of the lowest rates in the FSU. The Government's initial
round of structural reforms, supported by a Rehabilitation Loan and then by a first Structural
Adjustment Loan, focused on three areas: (a) privatizing, restructuring, and demonopolizing
enterprises; (b) strengthening the legal and regulatory framework in the financial sector; and (c)
liberalizing prices and trade. However, the pace of structural reforms lagged, and GDP continued
declining-by about 3 percent in 1995 and 7.5 percent in 1996. The Government's next round of
structural reforms, supported by the first two tranches of the Second Structural Adjustment Credit
and Loan (SAL II), have been more successful, although much of the progress in implementation
came in two bursts-in mid- 1997 and in the second half of 1998. The reforms supported by SAL
II aimed to: (a) restore viability to the PAYG pension system through a comprehensive reform;
(b) demonopolize and privatize the energy sector-gas and electricity - and improve its financial
viability; (c) spur the development of private agriculture through farm restructuring, land titling
and the development of a market in land; (d) complete the process of enterprise privatization by
moving from mass privatization to systematic privatization for cash.
6. The initial round of these reforms, in 1997, saw some results, as GDP rose by 1.3 percent,
the first positive growth since independence. This was spurred by a strong rebound in the
agriculture sector, which grew by 11 percent in 1997, recovering from a 12 percent drop in 1996.
The situation changed in 1998. The first half of 1998 was dominated by reform inertia (except,
to some extent, in agricultural privatization, as collective farms were broken down and land titles
issued to private farmers) as policymakers focused on the prologue to, and then aftermath of,
critical Parliamentary elections held in March. These watershed elections resulted in a strongly
pro-reform ruling Parliamentary coalition and Government. This set the stage for important
legislative and Governmental milestones toward structural change in the second half of 1998.
During this time, a much-needed (and much-delayed) reform to the PAYG pension system was
adopted by Parliament, numerous VAT exemptions were eliminated and increases in excise tax
rates were enacted in order to increase revenue collections.  Parliament also authorized
privatization of the gas sector and numerous other enterprises and associated "objects" which
were deemed attractive to foreign investors. 'The beneficial impact of these measures, however,
where not realized before the onset of the regional financial crisis.
7. The Russia crisis battered the macroeconomy during the second half of the year. Reduced
demand in Russia, along with the inability of the Russian banks to service Moldovan exporters,
led to a significant reduction of trade with Russia. Consequently, total foreign trade declined by
19 percent in 1998: exports dropped 24 percent and imports 15.6 percent. The trade deficit
reached US$ 398.5 million by end-December, an increase of US$ 14.5 million in 1997. The
current account deficit reached 20 percent of GDP for 1998, which led to an external debt to GDP
ratio of over 83.5 percent. GDP is estimated to have fallen by over 8 percent in 1998, largely as a
result of these trade disruptions.
8. The Russian contagion effect put significant pressure on the leu, which depreciated
significantly during 1998. The National Bank of Moldova resisted pressure to depreciate
through both direct and indirect intervention - involving market purchases of lei and the
implementation of a sharp increase in reserve requirements, money tightening and higher interest
rates. However, pressures continued to build and in early November the National Bank
2



announced a ceasing of intervention in support of the leu. In total, net international reserves
decreased by almost $100 million in 1998, to less than two months of import cover (from over 3
months), while the exchange rate reached 8.36 lei per US dollar by end-1998, as compared with
4.66 at the beginning of the year and 4.75 just before the Russian crisis.
9. Moldova's debt has grown dramatically since 1992, so that prior to the onset of the Russian
Crisis the burden of debt service was already a substantial drag on the State budget and the
economy. In 1998, foreign and domestic interest payments from the State budget totaled just
over 420 million leu (or 4.7% of GDP), while total external debt service (amortization plus
interest, including from the Central Bank and private borrowers) topped $248 million USD.
Nevertheless, the debt stock and burden of debt service was made significantly more onerous
by the 2-fold exchange rate depreciation of the lei following the collapse of the Russian Ruble.
For instance, the IMF estimates that between 1998 and 1999, total external debt (including energy
arrears) as a ratio to GDP (excluding Transnistria) will increase from 83 percent to almost 115
percent. At the same time, external debt service for 1999 is projected at $226 million, or roughly
40% of exports of goods and non-factor services.
10. The Russia crisis undercut progress in privatization in 1998, with general instability in the
domestic economy and the external markets. The loss of traditional markets and the breakdown
of the established trading system-mostly in Russia, but also in neighbors affected by the
economic slowdown-has made it more difficult for newly privatized farms and enterprises to
find markets for their products. At the same time, the regional financial and macro-economic
turmoil has reduced the availability of trade financing and credit. Particularly vulnerable are the
newly created private farmers, who face the 1999 agricultural season with relatively little
experience as entrepreneurs, and with few resources to weather the transition. In all, GDP fell by
8.6 percent in 1998.
11. The Russia crisis will also leave its legacy in terms of an increased overhang of domestic
Government arrears (about half of which are for wages, pensions and energy payments) and
increased uncertainty about sufficient external financing to meet Moldova's financing gap.
Lack of sufficient reduction in expenditure comiitments led to a renewed buildup of budgetary
arrears to 12.3 percent of GDP by end 1998. The IMF estimates the cash deficit to be 3.4 percent
of GDP and a commitment deficit of 9.3 percent of GDP in 1998. Moreover, much of recent and
potential payments by the State budget are in the form of offsets and in kind, thus providing little
cash to either households or enterprises. Wage arrears to education and health workers, already
among the lowest paid in the economy, have. been increasing, leading to frequent strikes and
protests. Arrears by the Government to the energy sector, although partly reduced by offsets,
contribute to the poor financial situation of the enterprises, and lead to the buildup of quasi-fiscal
external debt to Gazprom (the monopoly supplier of gas) and electricity suppliers in Ukraine and
Romania. At the same time, the shock to investor confidence in late 1998 reduced the
Government's ability to raise money externally. Foreign investors almost completely pulled out
of the domestic T-bill market, and a plan for a Eurobond issue had to be shelved. The unstable
environment also weakened the prospects for significant revenues from large-scale privatization.
12. Finally, the economic slowdown and domestic payment arrears have exacerbated social
problems, with poorer households likely to bear the brunt of the shock. There are fewer
employment opportunities for entrants to the labor force. Growing unsold inventories have meant
that many farms and agro-enterprises have been unable to pay wages in cash to their employees
for several months, increasing hardship in rural areas, the poorest parts of Moldova. Public
3



expenditures on the social sectors have been particularly affected, with State Government health
and education expenditures, as of end-October 1998, less than 50 percent of that planned for the
year. Wage arrears to education and health workers, already among the lowest paid in the
economy, have been increasing, leading to frequent strikes and protests. For many households,
this is likely to be compounded by the slowdown of remittances from the estimated 100,000
seasonal and temporary Moldovan workers in Russia.
B. THE POLITICAL ECONOMY OF REFORMS
>  Moldova's political economy is complex, and affected greatly by the electoral cycle. Among
the tensions are competing pulls between pro-Russia and pro-Romania forces, and between
pro-reform factions and those who believe in a more controlled economy.
>  The political consensus backing the reformers is fragile, and is threatened both by popular
discontent at falling living standards and political jockeying before the local elections due in
mid-1999.
>  However, there is a current window of opportunity, with the emergence of a pro-reform
coalition, a new class ofyounger, reformist leaders, and an emerging consensus of the
inevitability of major economic adjustments.
13. The post-independence political economy of reform in Moldova has been marked by
changeovers in the balance of power between competing forces. In the years following
independence, Moldova's first President, Mr. Snegur, advocated stronger ties with Romania and
a move away from the very close political and economic ties that Moldova had with Russia.
Politically, this was counteracted by the dominance of the Agrarian party, which controlled both
the Parliament and Government until 1997. Economically, the reality was that Moldova was
extremely dependent on Russia-both as a critical supplier of energy and as the largest market
for Moldovan agricultural produce. Mr. Snegur lost the Presidential elections in late 1996, to be
succeeded by the then Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Petru Lucinschi. In the Parliamentary elections
of 1998, the Agrarian party was completely routed, and left without any seats in the new
Parliament. On the one hand, the largest party in the new Parliament are the Communists, who
hold 40 of the 101 seats. On the other hand, the three other center-right parties in the Parliament
joined together to form the Alliance for Democracy and Reform (ADR), which has a controlling
majority and a strongly pro-economic reform mandate.
14. The period spanning mid-1998 to mid-1999 presents a remarkable window of opportunity:
there is a strong political consensus for reform, and a new, dynamic, group of leaders who
believe in the reform process. In 1998, the ruling three-party coalition, the ADR, had
incorporated much of the reform program supported by SAL II into its platform, and was diligent
in implementing this commitment. The President, Mr. Lucinschi, publicly supported the reform
program, and the Government, with a strongly pro-reform cabinet and First Deputy Prime
Minister (Mr. Ion Sturza), succeeded in implementing key elements of the program. This
included the passage in Parliament of reform to the PAYG pension system, which had been
historically perceived as politically difficult in Moldova, as well as a marked ramp-up in the
privatization effort. Moreover, after the economic crisis in the latter half of 1998, the Parliament
adopted a budget for 1999 that made politically difficult, but necessary, reductions in expenditure
commitments.
4



15. The reform impetus is driven by a growing perception that restoring macro-financial
equilibrium to the economy is urgent. This became starkly clear in late 1998 when Moldova's
vaunted stability in its exchange rate and inflation crumbled at the onslaught of the regional
crisis. It is now well understood among the key players in Moldova that the failure to impose
hard budget constraints is a contributory factor towards mounting domestic arrears, which is
blocking further progress in economic restructuring and causing social unrest. At the same time
RAO Gazprom is hardening its attitude towards Moldova's chronic external payments arrears. It
reduced the supply of gas to Moldova by half for much of autumn 1998, resulting in massive
rolling blackouts throughout the nation. It is clear that the importance of discipline in the
energy sector is no longer an issue for debate.
16. Support for farm restructuring and other agricultural reforms is mounting through strong
grass-roots support, and general agreement across most political factions, for quickly
completing the privatization of farms. As a result, the farm restructuring and privatization
program is moving ahead, and the Government has been able to remove much of the implicit and
explicit subsidies to the large collective farms. There is an emerging risk, however, that this
political consensus will be undermined if the new class of private farmers are unable to access
sufficient resources for carrying out their activities, or are unable to effectively market their
produce in the wake of the continuing regional crisis.
17. The new Government has strong reformist credentials in its leadership, but weaker support
in Parliament. In January 1999, the Prime Minister, Mr. Ciubuc, resigned, and set off a period of
political jockeying that caused a partial splinter of the ADR coalition-which otherwise, as
members of Moldova's anti-communist bloc, found consensus on economic issues. A new
Government, led by Mr. Ion Sturza (Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Reform in the previous
cabinet), was approved by Parliament in early march, but by a very slim one vote margin, as the
Popular Front, one of the four parties in the governing coalition, refused to vote for the
Government. However, the Popular Front leadership subsequently confirmed to the Bank its
continued support for the Government's economic reform program. Recent adoption by the
Parliament of important reform legislation, including the legal framework for non-state
pension funds and the 1999/2000 Privatization program, indicates that the Government has
political support for its reform agenda.
18. The new Government is embarking a deep and comprehensive set of reforms. In addition
to initiatives outlined below for the SAC program, including privatization in the energy,
agricultural and enterprise sectors, the Government is planning a comprehensive reform of the
public sector. This will include reform of health, education and social assistance, substantial
efforts into reorganizing of the system of government at the local level, reform of Public
Administration and the Civil Service, as well as a stated commitment to fight corruption.
However, political risks remain on the horizon. There is still the chance that new Parliamentary
elections could occur before schedule, while Presidential elections due in 2000 may also serve to
polarize the key political figures in Moldova, as was the case during the previous round in 1996-
97.
5



C. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
>  The effects of the Regional crisis on Moldova are severe; they will be felt throughout 1999
and beyond.
>  The Government is making all efforts to contain the deterioration of the economic situation,
while initiating a comprehensive set of structural reforms necessary for a rationalization of
the budget and a reorientation of its economy toward non-traditional markets.
>   The current operation is a key component of this strategy, and represents a strong signal of
World Bank support for the new Government.
19. Moldova is arguably the Country most affected by the Russia Crisis. This is due to the fact
that Moldova is highly dependent on Russian energy imports, which are nominally priced in
dollars, while Russia annually absorbs 60 to 70 percent of Moldova's exports. The combined
effect of severely reduced demand for Moldovan products, along with increases in energy costs
accompanying the leu's depreciation, substantially impacts real economic performance, raises the
cost of inputs, and reduces budget revenues. At the same time, the leu's depreciation makes
Moldova's public debt, which is predominantly external, increasingly expensive to service.
Economic performance in 1998 was overwhelmed by the regional financial crisis in the second
half of the year. After rising by 1.3 percent in 1997, GDP fell by an estimated 8.6 percent in
1998, despite substantial progress in reform during the second half of the year. Moldova's
underlying vulnerabilities have not yet changed, while stabilization within the Region is ongoing.
As a result, Moldova will continue to face economic hardship throughout 1999.
20. Economic outcomes for the first quarter of 1999 showed that the situation is rapidly
deteriorating. An IMF mission visited Moldova in early May to hold discussions for the fourth
review under the Extended Fund Facility program (EFF). The mission reported a significant
reduction in revenue collection over the first quarter of 1998, and the breaching of performance
targets on net domestic assets of the NBM, net credit to the Government from the NBM and the
cash deficit of the general government, among others.2 Additionally, the leu has continued o
depreciate so that by May 3rd, 1999 it had broken 10 leu per US dollar, while external arrears
grew to over $100 million The breaching of quantitative benchmarks combined with slower than
expected progress on structural measures, due in part to the impact of the crisis referred to above
and also to political turmoil surrounding the formation of the new Government, resulted in a
delay of the Fourth Review. An IMF mission will visit Moldova in mid-July to judge, based on a
one-month track record of quantitative performance (May 30, 1999 through June 30, 1999), and a
two-month track record of performance on structural measures, whether the Fourth Review can
be completed at that time.
21. In response to the economic crisis, the Government and the IMF have agreed on a new set
of performance targets for the remainder of 1999, as well as an aggressive set of structural
measures. With regard to the quantitative measures, the program calls for a loosening of the
monetary and cash deficit performance targets during June to help facilitate settlement of external
arrears by June 30th, 1999. For the second quarter as a whole, the program calls for a significant
2The end-March targets were not subject to adjustment for delays in World Bank disbursements of the
SALII second tranche. This would have substantially reduced, but not eliminated, the breaching of
performance targets.
6



realignment of budget expenditures with commitments, including settlement of over 200 million
leu of arrears (for external interest), fulfillment of commitments on social sector expenditures and
for the Social Fund, and full payment for interest accrued during the quarter. Revenue
performance, which slipped substantially in the first four months of the year, is to be the primary
focus of remedial measures of a structural nature, and is programmed to increase by more than 50
percent during the second quarter of 1999 relative to the first. Once foreign arrears are settled,
the program for the second half of the year calls for a reductioni of net credit to the Government,
continued performance of revenue collection and interest service, and the establishment of a track
record of eliminating budgetary arrears.
22. On the structural side, the IMF and the Government have agreed to an aggressive set of
reform measures which will help to increase tax collections, improve the coordination of
monetary andfiscal policy, advance the privatization program and establish a concrete start to
the Government's public sector reform process. With respect to tax collections, two important
measures are to be carried out by June 15, 1999: (a) strengthening of the Large Taxpayer Unit
and (b) implementation of 30 mobile and 17 fixed fiscal posts at the administrative border with
the breakaway region of Transnistria. These two measures are important steps toward increasing
the tax base, particularly of the shadow economy, improving revenue collection, and thus meeting
the quantitative performance program for the first half of the 1999 and beyond. The Government
will also take concrete steps toward completing the privatization program - measures which are
part and parcel of the actions to be achieved under the SAC project. These include preparatory
steps for privatization of Moldtelecom and the energy distribution companies, and registration of
the shares of the new Moldovagas joint venture. On the agenda of public sector reform, the
Government will prepare an official draft of the new Civil Code and will, in coordination with the
IMF, complete a review of the draft Law on Local Public Finance. Among a number of other
measures, the Government will, (a) establish a temporary, exceptional, NBM profit transfer
mechanism equal to 80 percent of MoF cash payments for 1999 interest due, (b) complete (or
reach near completion) of negotiations on external payment arrears with Russia, the national
Reserve Bank, commercial suppliers and creditors under State guarantees, (c) initiate
restructuring/liquidation programs for firms in default of State guarantees and with substantial
arrears to the budget, and (d) approve an appropriate plan for restoration of the financial and
operational condition of the State Savings Bank.
23. In the wake of years of economic decline and recently, the regional financial crisis, the
Government of Moldova must take bold actions to restore fiscal order, privatize its economy,
and reorient its productive capacity for non-traditional markets. With leading reformers at the
helm of the new Government, a Parliament with a clear track record of passing legislation for
reform, and a substantial window before scheduled election, the remainder of 1999 represents a
critical opportunity (potentially the best since independence) for taking the actions necessary to
restore economic viability and reduce Moldova' s vulnerability to external shocks. The actions to
be achieved under the SAC, including progress in agricultural and land privatization, reform of
the energy sector, and an acceleration of enterprise privatization, are critical components of this
strategy, and are also necessary for addressing the public sector reform agenda to follow. The
operation and supporting actions therefore need to be initiated immediately. In order to
maintain the reform momentum, swift approval of the SAC would provide the Government
internal support and credibility for achieving its agenda; it would also facilitate optimal timing
with respect to weather conditions, the political environment, and the implementation schedule
for second tranche release, particularly with respect to energy privatization.
7



24. In order to maintain the momentum of the reform program, as represented by the High
Case of the CAS, as well as to ensure that a sustainable macroeconomic framework is in
place, the World Bank in agreement with the Government has included an effectiveness
condition into the Credit Agreement. The effectiveness condition provides a mechanism to
bolster the Government's ability to adopt required and immediate actions which represent very
tough political decisions. By the time of the effectiveness date, a strong track record of
performance will be in hand. In a'ddition to the effectiveness condition, the IAF also has a set of
structural measures, some of which need to be met by June 15th, and the remainder by July 15th,
1999. As the impact of these actions can only be judged with mid-year data in hand, in mid-July,
in coordination with an IMF mission, IDA will review progress on the structural measures and
Moldova' s macroeconomic performance.  In particular, IDA will monitor the following
indicators based on end-June numbers: revenue performance, external and domestic arrears
reduction, expenditure rationalization, the cash deficit, and net NBM credit to the Government.
IDA will also monitor whether an agreement has been reached with the IMF on the Fourth
Review of the EFF, and hence that the program is fully financed. Credit effectiveness will
depend upon the outcome of the review.
II. THE REFORM PROGRAM
> The structural adjustment program supported by the proposed SAC is a continuation of the
actions supported by the SAL II operation.
> The program focuses on promoting ownership change, as a precondition to improved
corporate governance, financial discipline and growth through investment.
> The principal areas of ownership change are in agriculture and enterprises where the
objectives are to increase incentives to restructure and invest, and thus generate greater
income and employment; and the energy sector, where the objective is to advance further
along the path to improved corporate governance andfinancial discipline.
A. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
25. The Government's program aims at completing the agenda of the structural reforms
supported by SAL II-by pushing through ownership change in key sectors, and putting into
place measures that advance the reform agenda, while at the same time are difficult to reverse.
The SAL 11 program focused on four areas: (a) pension reform, (b) land privatization and farm
restructuring, (c) unbundling the energy enterprises and starting the process of privatization, and
(d) enterprise privatization - particularly small scale. The proposed SAC, will support the
privatization process started under SAL II.  In particular, it will focus on continuing in
agriculture, energy and privatization. In agriculture the focus will be on maintaining momentum
for land reform, supporting new private farmers, and laying the foundations for a restructuring of
agro-processing. The SAC will support completion of the privatization process for electricity
distribution companies, as well as substantive progress towards privatizing the electricity
generation companies and the gas company. It will also initiate a process that should lead to
privatizing the district heating companies. Finally, the SAC will support the implementation of a
new enterprise privatization program covering the years 1999-2000 which will emphasis the
importance of attracting strategic foreign investors to Moldova.
8



26. A strong macroeconomic framework will be needed to ensure that full benefits from
structural reforms are achieved. The Government is taking steps, supported the IMF-EFF
program to improve budgetary discipline, control inflation and ensure external sustainability.
Key elements of the stabilization program include improving tax collection, rationalizing
expenditures and maintaining external competitiveness. The structural reforms supported by the
proposed SAC aim at helping bring about a supply response to ensure that stabilization is
sustainable [See Annex 1, including summary tables, for a more detailed description of the
macroeconomic framework].
* Conditions for both tranches: Continued adherence to the agreed fiscal framework, and
the maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic program.
B. CREATING A FLEXIBLE AND COMPETITIVE PRIVATE SECTOR IN AGRICULTURE
27. As the engine for future growth, reforming the agricultural sector is very high in the
Government's list of priorities. The process is well under way. The restructuring of collective
farms has created a new class of over 200,000 private farmers, most of whom have individual
titles to their land. The passage of a law in 1997 allowing, for the first time, trading in land
(including agricultural land), together with recent amendments to regulations that lowered the fee
on land transactions, is expected to facilitate the process of re-sales and consolidation of
farmland. The Government has decided to continue the acceleration of the implementation of
agricultural reforms-especially farm restructuring, the de-monopolization and privatization of
the grain sector, and the creation of a favorable macro-environment for agricultural growth.
28. The Government has embarked on a significant strategic program for privatization of
urban and rural land, and the development of land and real estate markets. The program is
supported by the World Bank and USAID through the First Cadastre (Real Estate Registration)
Project and the rural Land Project, respectively. This is following the passage of the law on real
estate cadastre in the Parliament on February 25, 1998. By establishing a system of clear and
enforceable ownership rights, the Government aims to: (a) reduce the transaction costs for
property owners at sales, rentals, inheritances, and other forms of property transfers through the
availability of needed information; (b) provide confidence to lenders for providing secured credit
against real estate; (c) facilitate urban planning and land management through basic information;
(d) provide a basis for real estate valuation and property taxation; and (e) facilitate for certain
private sectors to develop (surveyors, notaries, valuers). Proposed targets for 1998 have been
satisfactorily met on sale and tradability of agriculture land, but the process needs to be
continued, with cooperation from the USAID's Land Project. Land titling under a unified parcel
basis was completed for 6 percent of private beneficiaries of agriculture land reform. Downward
flexibility in the normative price of land under privatization has allowed impressive results on
sale of enterprise land, but more needs to be done to increase the incentives for enterprises to buy
their land from the municipalities.
29. In farm restructuring, the issue is the removal of obstacles that prevent the extension of the
program to all farms. The continuation of this process is aided by recent legislation that
establishes the right of peasant farms to have a legal organizational status. A draft law to amend
this legislation has been prepared by the Government for subsequent Parliamentary discussion.
The draft proposes to permit peasant farm sizes of 5 hectares or more to be registered and
function as legal entities. By eliminating a possible source of slowdown in effective farm
9



restructuring, this would clears the way for an increased pace of privatization in the primary
agricultural sector.
30. A critical issue that remains is the creation of a legal framework for the expedited
settlement of debts at those farms which are ready for restructuring, and to liquidate the
traditional (collective or state) farming enterprise. Those farms which do not participate in this
project and are insolvent from the financial point of view would become subject to regular
bankruptcy procedure immediately. The Government is preparing a draft law that would conform
to the following principles:
>  Extension of the process of settlement of debt to cover the entire debt of the farming
sector, including private sector debt.
>  Clearing farm debts through the transfer of required assets for settling debts to the state,
after honoring existing registered liens of creditors. The state would cancel all state and
parastatal debts and provide a framework for settling the claims of the private creditors.
>  Ending the process with the closing of all remaining enterprises, and distribution of any
remaining assets after debt settlement to the farm's privatization fund, for distribution to
entitled farm members.
>  Automatic implementation of the process at the level of the farm.
>  Completion of the process within 12 months, tied to the National Land Program.
>  A clear notification that the debt-clearing process is an extraordinary, one-time operation
and applies only to farms in the National Land Program.
Once such a law is adopted, it is likely that most of the over 900 farms in Moldova could be
restructured, and land distributed to new owners, by the middle of 2000.
*  Board condition: The adoption of a satisfactory Law for the Expedited Settlement of
Farm Debt.
*  Board and second tranche conditions: Continued progress towards completion of
National Farm Restructuring Program with targets on farm privatization as agreed
with the Bank.
*  Board and second tranche conditions: Continued progress in titling of agricultural land.
* Prior to the second tranche release, the Government will review progress in the farm
restructuring program, and take any measures necessary to remove identified impediments.
31. Concomitantly, the Government is following up on the market liberalization measures that
were started under the program supported by SAL I and SAL II. After the inclusion in the
privatization plan of the Fertlitate units, and the adoption of a mechanism to facilitate their sale,
the Government is focusing on liberalizing the output market. Two Cereale units were
transferred to the management of Lukoil company as part of Moldova's energy debt settlement.
The majority of ownership, however, remains with the Government of Moldova. In December
1997 and February 1998 the remaining state shares of four former Cereale enterprises were
offered for sale. None of them were sold. There is a plan to offer for sale the remaining state
shares of three Cereale enterprises at the stock exchange. Ten former Cereale units had not been
included in the 1997-1998 Privatization Program, although it had been agreed with Bank experts
that only three units (required to hold the State's emergency grain reserve) would remain in
10



partial state ownership. The 1999/2000 Privatization Program includes the remaining 6Fertilitate
and 16 Cereale units.
32. The Government is also determined to support the new class of private farmers, in
accordance with the findings of the study of the system of direct and indirect taxation and
subsidization of agriculture. The Government has already adopted the key recommendations of
the study into the 1999 budget. These measures include:
> maintenance of land tax as the primary form of taxing agriculture;
> replacement of the collection of taxes in kind by cash payments;
> elimination of state guarantees for any credits to enterprises in the agricultural sector;
>  cancellation of non-cash support through procurement and price support for grain and
milk;
> cancellation of compensation for national calamities in the form of debt reduction;
> reduction of the 1998 level of the water (irrigation) subsidy by 50%; and
> cancellation of intervention on the milk market in the form of tax reduction.
*  Board condition: The taxation and subsidy policy will remain based on the agreements
made with the World Bank based on the Agricultural taxation and Subsidy Study.
* Board condition: Continued track record of no Government interference on the grain
market.
33. The Government is also supporting private farmers by giving them "homestead grants"
through the Agricultural Support Fund in time for the spring planting season. These grants
are allocated on a per-hectare basis, to private farmers only. They are also be capped so that
smaller farmers, who have the least access to credit, can be proportionately larger beneficiaries.
* Board and second tranche condition: Proper implementation, according to principles
agreed with the Bank, of the Agricultural Support Fund for private farmers.
C. DE-MONOPOLIZING AND PRIVATIZING THE ENERGY SECTOR
34. Lack of financial discipline is a particularly serious in the energy sector. Despite the
progress during the past two years in demonopolizing, regulating and rationalizing enterprises
and preparing them for privatization, the financial condition of the sector remains weak. This is
partially because costs recently shot up after the leu lost almost half its nominal value in the wake
of the Russian crisis. But the most important reason is low cash collections. Against agreed
targets of 100 percent collection and at least 50 percent cash collection, collection was only 43
percent (80 percent excluding gas supplied to electricity sector) during first 9 months of 1998,
with less than 30 percent cash collection. In response, the regulatory agency issued decisions, in
September 1998, to adjust heat, electricity and gas tariffs to reflect the cost structure. The
Government, under the aegis of the National Energy Commission, also took positive steps to
improve collections, including the appointment of private collection agents, reduction of tariff
privileges and compensations and increased targeting of subsidies to the poor. However, this has
not helped the precarious financial condition of the energy enterprises, since the Government has
not been able to fully compensate the companies in cash for these privileges. The debt to the
energy enterprises compromises their ability to repay foreign creditors for energy imports, and
jeopardizes energy supply. RAO Gazprom of Russia has already assumed ownership of half of
11



Moldova's gas transmission sector in exchange for a fraction of past debts. It has also persuaded
the Government to assume first $140 million, and then $90 million, in debt owed by the
electricity organization, Moldenergo. This increase in sovereign debt, and the continued rise in
quasi-fiscal obligations, poses a serious threat to Moldova's creditworthiness.
35. The energy reform program continues the strategy supported by the Bank's SAL II. It
features: (i) financial consolidation of the sector through tariff adjustments to ensure cost
recovery, improved collections (particularly cash), reduction of arrears, and better targeted
subsidies; (ii) restructuring, commercialization, and privatization of the gas and power utilities;
(iii) restructuring and decentralization of district heating companies to municipal and local
governments; and (iv) the development of a modern legal and regulatory framework. The
program has been under implementation for two years, with a mixed success. The power
industry has been restructured through unbundling of generation, transmission and distribution
functions and creation of joint stock companies in generation and distribution which are now
poised for privatization. The controlling portion of shares in the new integrated gas company is
being sold to Gazprom of Russia. Electricity and gas laws have been enacted and an independent
energy regulatory agency (ANRE) created.
36. The main priority at this stage is to privatize power distribution and generation companies
to improve their financial and technical performance and bring in the necessary investment
capital. The SAC would support the Government's intensive effort to sell these to strategic
investors. The involvement of a reputable investment bank is critical to the success of this
process. Its selection is under way and should be completed by end-May. The priority will be
given to selling the distribution companies, in Chisinau, Centru, Nord, Nord-Vest, and Sud, all of
whose shares would be offered for sale by mid-July 1999. Privatization of controlling shares of
the generation companies will closely follow.  The privatization of the five distribution
companies should be completed this year, and of the three generation companies by end-March,
2000.
  Board condition: Adopt a resolution for implementing the law on energy sector debt
restructuring.
*  Board condition: Sign contract with the selected investment bank to support the
privatization of electricity companies.
*  Board condition:  In the electricity sector, review  progress achieved through
performance contracts and implement changes as necessary to meet numerical targets
on collections.
*  Second tranche condition:  Complete sales of distribution companies for which
satisfactory bids where received.
*  Second tranche condition:  Issue tender documents for privatization of generation
companies.
37. This would be accompanied by the development of electricity market rules and trading
arrangements and further strengthening of the regulatory framework, conducive to private
investment and efficient operation of the sector. Efficiency gains from privatization will be
enhanced by introduction of a competitive wholesale electricity market based on bilateral
12



contracts between - on the one hand -- electricity supply companies and - on the other hand --
electricity generating companies in or outside Moldova. Moldtranselectro (MTE) will provide
transmission and dispatch services and be responsible for balancing the market and providing
ancillary system services. It will not be involved in the trading of electric energy nor in the
ownership of generation companies. Development of market rules and grid codes, specifying
detailed rules for the operation of the market, is under way and is expected to be completed by
mid-1999. The market should commence its operation according to the new rules by early 2000.
38. Maintaining energy tariffs at cost recovery levels, reduction and restructuring of payment
arrears, improved collections, and reduced subsidies are also crucial for privatization and
development of the sector, while better social targeting of subsidies would protect most
vulnerable groups of the population from increased cost recovery. A critical issue in collections
is the timely payment by the budget for consumption by budgetary organizations and for
compensating the enterprises for privileges and subsidies.
* Board condition: Abolish all privileges for energy consumption established by
Government resolutions.
* Board condition: Draft legislation and decrees as necessary to eliminate all remaining
privileges relating to energy consumption and submit them to Parliament and/or the
President for adoption and promulgation.
* Second tranche condition: Satisfactory progress in making payments from the budget to
the energy sector.
39. The Government is expected to finalize soon negotiations with Gazprom on the sale of the
gas company shares. Currently, negotiations are continuing with Gazprom, with a key issue
being the process of assumption of US$ 90 million in gas sector debt by the Government. Once
the issue is settled, Moldovagas will be formed as a holding company, which will include a
transmission subsidiary and a number of distribution subsidiaries. RAO Gazprom, as the majority
owner, would have the majority of seats on the Board of Director and the Supervisory Board of
Moldovagas and would control its operation. The next step toward eliminating the Government's
role as an energy provider and in the past, de facto guarantor of external arrears, is to sell the
remaining shares of Moldovagas to a strategic investor.
* Board condition: Preparation of a time-bound action plan for sale of remaining
Government shares in Moldovagas.
40. Restructuring the district heating companies is a critical step toward rationalizing energy
usage. Due to recent exchange rate depreciation, inefficiencies in heat delivery, and a lack of
metering at the household level, the population can not afford the current pace of heat energy
consumption and has limited means to reduce personal costs. This has resulted in extremely low
levels of collections in heating, and the decision by the Government, to make large allocations
from the budget for heating compensations. In order to rationalize the system, a time-bound
action plan should be developed with measure to restructure and decentralize district heating, and
eventually, to privatize them. In the interim, in order to improve management and collections,
performance contracts should be signed with a private company with sufficient incentives built in
to assure improvements.
13



Board condition:  Government approval of the restructuring plan and signing of
performance contracts with management.
Second tranche condition:  Progress, satisfactory to the Bank, on implementing the
Government's restructuring program of district heating.
41. The maintenance and strengthening of the energy regulatory framework is going to be
critical in fostering an environment conducive to financial discipline. It is important, therefore,
that ANRE develops sufficient capacity to regulate monopoly practices in the sector, and that the
Government ensures ANRE's independence in accordance with Electricity Law. Regulation of
district heating companies should be transferred to local governments. Enterprises whose
privatization is not planned at this stage-district heating, electricity transmission and dispatch-
should improve their financial management and internal financial control, including audits by
independent auditors to international standards. Creating incentives for and promotion of energy
efficiency, both in consumption and supply, should be an important element of the Government
policies in the sector.
* Board condition: Adopt ANRE's budget.
a Board condition: Approve ANRE's founding acts.
*  Board condition: ANRE to have issued all licenses for gas transmission, distribution and
supply.
D. ACCELERATING ENTERPRISE PRIVATIZATION AND ATTRACTING STRATEGIC
INVESTORS
42. The Government's enterprise privatization program aims to continue the process of
divesting enterprises from State ownership-by selling small businesses to local entrepreneurs
and medium and large enterprises to strategic investors- in order to encourage restructuring,
improved governance and job creation. The previous program, the 1997-98 Privatization
Program (97/98 PP) was quite successful at promoting the sale of small and medium enterprises:
by the latter half of 1998, the Government had sold 677 identified land plots under privatized
enterprises (36 percent of all such plots), over 500 leased premises, its residual shareholdings in
295 joint stock companies, and 14 critical medium and large enterprises. It has offered for sale
already a much larger group of enterprises, including residual shares in 757 joint-stock
companies, and 81 medium and large enterprises. Today, 407 joint stock companies (which had
originally participated in mass privatization for patrimonial bonds) are now entirely private,
compared to just 81 enterprises at the end of the mass privatization program.
43. The Government is renewing its commitment to enterprise privatization, by initiating a 1999-
2000 Privatization Program (99/00 PP). Its three-pronged strategy is (i) to support restructuring
of the privatized enterprises through encouraging strategic investors and direct investments,
(ii) to create conditions for improved corporate governance in the privatized enterprises
through enabling a critical mass of ownership concentration, and (iii) to support job creation
and growth through an accelerated sale of small assets, leased premises and land. Therefore,
the plan intends to include enterprises attractive to strategic investor-such as winecombinats-
Cricova, laloveni, Cojusna, Aroma Chisinau, Balti, Nisporeni, Briceni etc.-Moldtelecom, and
14



Tobacco units. In addition, all Cereale and Fertilitatea units which are not privatized yet will be
in the 99/OOPP. In addition, it aims to sell at least half of the remaining leased premises, and to
improve the ease of sale through improving the payment terms, and continuing with an
aggressive sale policy through auctions. For new privatizations, it would include the land under
the enterprises in order to avoid successive sale transactions.
44. A critical need for the ownership change to have full effect is to improve corporate
governance in privatized enterprises, in order to facilitate restructuring. An aim of the program
is to concentrate ownership (for example, by selling shares owned by the Government to current
owners) and selling enterprises in a block to strategic investors. As a corollary, those enterprises
included in the privatization program which are not privatized, but continue to function and drain
resources, will be liquidated. The 1999-2000 program also aims to address the key problems
faced by the Government in implementing its program in 1998. Many enterprises, once offered
for sale, were not sold because investors found them unattractive because of high debt. The
Government also demanded relatively high prices for state shares in JSCs and land. Finally, the
Government was hindered by the fact that it lacked full power and flexibility to approve
individual privatization transactions, having to get Parliamentary support for all key transactions.
Therefore, the immediate adoption of the 1999-2000 PP is a clear priority. The Government will
also encourage privatization based on commitment for investment and symbolic price, especially
in the case of potentially viable enterprises but in financial distress, and to substantially lower the
normative price of the land under private units. It would, finally, seek full power from the
Parliament to approve individual privatization transactions.
*  Board condition: Adoption of a satisfactory 1999-2000 privatization program and its
publication in Monitorul Oficial.
*  Board condition:   Preparation  of an implementation  plan for the 1999-2000
Privatization Program which set priorities for technical assistance and is satisfactory t
the Bank.
L  Second tranche condition: Satisfactory implementation of the 1999-2000 Privatization
Program.
45. Moldova's enterprise sector is in critical needs of external markets for its products, as well as
refurbishment of its capital stock and improvements in technology. In Moldova, the key to these
objectives is foreign direct investment into its sectors of comparative advantage. Toward this
goal the Government will include enterprises attractive to strategic investors into the 1999-2000
privatization program (including wine combinats such as Cricova and Ialoveni, tobacco,
Moldtelecom and the power companies). Of particular concern are the privatization of wineries
and the Cereale. Privatization of the wineries is a critical step toward creating a national presence
on the international market for what is arguably Moldova's most well high quality product
groups. Privatization of the Cereale is important step toward improvement of agro-services for
the large and growing private farming sector.
* Board condition: The Department of Privatization will send proposals of individual
privatization for 3 to 4 wineries to the Government.
15



* Board condition: Provided that technical assistance is available, the Government will
either, (a) announce tender for hiring of a financial advisor, or (b) hire directly a financial
advisor for privatization of Cereale.
46.  The Government is renewing  its commitment to foster development of the
telecommunications industry through privatization and foreign direct investment After
receiving Parliamentary approval to sell 40% ofMoldtelecom, in 1998 the Government attempted
to privatize the company with the help of an EBRD financed investment bank. However, market
response was less than expected, and in the end the Government did not come to agreement with
the single potential investor that expressed interest. The new Government is reinitiating its
privatization efforts. As a first step it prepared draft legal documents which would establish a
telecommunications regulatory agency with the goal of developing a competitive market
environment for the sector. The Government now intends to move forward by developing a
concise sector policy strategy, in accordance with the World Bank. Based on the strategy and the
World Bank's legal advice, it will establish the necessary legal documents for creation of the
regulatory agency, and to ensure its adequate funding. The Government also intents carry out a
financial audit and then to hire an investment bank to help prepare Moldtelecom for privatization.
* Board condition: Government will draft legal documents, satisfactory to the Bank, for
creation of an independent regulatory agency of the telecommunications industry.
* Board condition: Government will hire an international recognized audit firm to provide
a financial audit of Moldtelecom.
* Second tranche condition: The Government will hire an investment bank to prepare
Moldtelecom for privatization and achieve progress, satisfactory to the Bank, toward sale of
at least 51% of shares of the company to strategic investor(s).
1II. LINKS WITH BANK PROGRAM AND OTHER PARTNERS
>  The proposed SAC is central to the April 1999 CAS and provides triggers forfollow-up
lending.
> The proposed SAC provides the policy framework needed to ensure full benefits from on-
going and planned investment loans.
>  The operation comes with clear benefits in providing timely and essential budget support to
Moldova in order to finance the continuation of reforms, but it also has significant risks.
>  Preparation of the proposed SAC was closely coordinated with the IMF and other donors.
A. THE PROPOSED CREDIT IS CENTRAL TO THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
47. The proposed SAC is an important element of the lending program in the 1999 CAS which
was discussed by the Board on May 7, 1999. The CAS sets out three priority objectives: (a)
creating foundation for long-run macroeconomic sustainability, growth and poverty reduction by
stimulating supply response; (b) support private sector development; and (c) launch a broad based
16



reform of the public sector. The proposed SAC seeks to meet the first two objectives and to help
set the stage for the third. Privatization is the SAC's primary focus. It is expected that
privatization, land reform, and support to new private farmers will help bring about the much
needed supply response. Progress in a restructuring of the energy sector and a rationalization of
energy usage and expenditures are also necessary steps for the success of the ongoing public
sector reform process.
48. The policy reforms supported by the SAC are also necessary for the success of Bank
investment operations. Hardening the budget constraint facing enterprises and completing
ownership change are needed for the continuing success of Bank-supported Private Sector
Development projects (PSD I and II, and the proposed PSD III). Land privatization and
rationalizing the taxation/subsidization of agriculture would help achieve the objectives of the
Agriculture I and Cadastre projects. Improving payments discipline and reducing government
arrears-to energy enterprises as well as to teachers, doctors and pensioners-are critical for the
success of the Energy I (and proposed Energy II) and Education projects.
49. In turn, investment lending is designed to support the adjustment program. Institution
building and detailed conditions that are required for the success of the structural reforms are
supported by investment operations in the key sectors: PSD (with the PSD III), agriculture (with
the Rural Finance LIL, and proposed Rural Finance and Agricultural Services projects), energy
(with Energy I, a small metering and rehabilitation investment project, and the proposed Energy
II, an investment operation linked to reforms which could include an energy efficiency
component).
B. BANK OPERATIONS
50. The Bank's assistance program in Moldova has combined policy-based lending with
investment operations, technical assistance and ESW. Policy lending has provided quick
disbursing balance of payments funds in support of macroeconomic stabilization, price and trade
liberalization, and the initial phase of structural reform, notably privatization, financial sector
reform, and enterprise restructuring. Quick disbursing loans have included the US$ 26 million
Drought Recovery project and the follow-up US$ 60 million Rehabilitation Loan, both approved
in 1993, the US$ 60 million Structural Adjustment Loan approved in late 1994, and the US$ 100
million Second Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (later revised to US$ 70 million with the
cancellation of the third tranche).
51. Investment lending began in 1995 with the US$ 30 million Pre-export Guarantee Facility,
which offers political risk insurance designed to attract working capital loans from abroad. The
investment lending program accelerated in 1996 with the approval of a US$ 35 million loan for
the Private Sector Development project, a US$ 10 million loan for the First Agriculture project,
and a US$ 10 million loan for the Energy project. The first IFC investment in Moldova (US$ 10
million in INCON, a major agro-processor) was approved in December 1996. Expansion of
investment lending has continued in 1997 and 1998, with a US$ 16.8 million loan for the General
Education project, a SDR 6.6 million IDA credit for the PSD II project, and the US$ 23 million
Cadastre project. Priority sectors for future investment lending include agriculture, energy, PSD
and the social sectors. Although US$ 46.3 million in investment lending has been committed to
date, disbursements have been delayed by a number of factors, including the slowdown in
structural reform in 1996 and early 1998, unfamiliarity with World Bank procedures, and a
chronic shortage of counterpart funds.
17



52.    The lending program has been complemented by a portfolio of grant funded technical
assistance projects, ranging from the preparation of public procurement legislation to the
development of modem enterprise accounting standards and the design of health care reforms.
The country assistance program includes an active non-lending services program which mixes
short policy notes on issues of immediate importance with in-depth macroeconomic and sector
studies.
C. BENEFITS AND RISKS: POLITICAL SUPPORT, MACRO UNCERTAINTY, AND SUPPLY
RESPONSE
53. The SAC would provide much-needed budget finance for Moldova, and, more broadly,
provide the financial underpinning for the Moldovan Government's cross-sectoral reform
program. This is especially critical given the large macro shock received by Moldova, and the
consequent fiscal stresses, which are undermining reforms throughout the economy, but
particularly in the social sectors and energy enterprises, where mounting arrears threaten to
undermine the progress so far. The availability of low cost, non-inflationary budgetary financing
will help consolidate Moldova's econornic stabilization. Moreover, by bolstering Moldova's
declining foreign reserves, it will provide the Government and the economy with the ability to
service its external obligations. More narrowly, the reform program supported by the SAC will
address key bottlenecks in the privatization of the energy sector, farms and enterprises, and
enhance the prospects of long-term growth and improved living standards by setting in place a
comprehensive program of reforms.
54. The operation has three important groups of risks (Box 1). A central risk is politicaL With
local elections in May 1999, it is possible that some aspects of the reform process may be slowed
SIf
Risks                               Mitigation Measures
POLITICAL:
*  Delays in policy implementation due to    *  Front-loading the core policy reforms as pre-
upcoming local elections                     Board and Board conditions.
*  The emergence of weak coalition Governments  .  Continuing public dialogue to build support
that are unable to undertake reforms within the  for reforms.
planned timeframe.
IMPLEMENTATION CAPACITY:
*  Weak implementation capacity of Government  .  Essential elements of the TA program are in
place with the help of bilateral donors, to
support key elements of the program
(including farm restructuring and electricity
____________  privatization)
MACROECONOMIC:
.  A macro-financial crisis, caused by external  *  Close monitoring of the macroeconomic
factors or the lack of sufficient extemal    framework, in cooperation with the IMF
financing in the aftermath of the Russia crisis    *  Efforts to work with bilateral and multilateral
partners to provide Moldova with sufficient
concessional resources.
S
18



or stalled. Moreover, while the current Government has strong ownership of the reform program,
it may be hampered by in-fighting within the coalition. The operation seeks to minimize the
overall risk by ensuring that a major part of the reform agenda is front-loaded. Most of the core
reforms under the program will have already been taken by the Board date. In the case of energy
privatization, the process will be well under way. Implementation will be mostly in the hands of
an investment bank, and there will be very little political will required until the final stages of the
operation. For the reform program in general, the Government, with support from the Bank, has
been carrying out an extensive dialogue with many elements of civil society. A public education
campaign, including regular roundtable discussions led by the Resident Mission, has helped
explain the reform program and build broad-based support for it.
55. The Government's reform program is very ambitious, and will require a great deal of
institutional capacity for effective implementation. This is especially true for farm restructuring
and energy sector privatization. The Government wants to continue to move quickly in these two
areas and has set ambitious targets and deadlines. However, weak institutions and lack of
experience could hamper implementation, and in turn delay release of the second tranche. In
order to minimize this risk, the Government is working closely with the Land Project with
comprehensive TA from USAID, which is effectively implementing the farm restructuring
program. In the area of energy sector privatization, technical assistance is also being provided by
USAID in the areas of creating market rules and the regulatory framework, as well as in selecting
the investment bank to guide the privatization process. The Bank will be helping the Ministry of
Privatization with technical assistance proposals to support implementation of the 1999/00 PP.
56. The reform program supported by the proposed SAC is designed to lay the foundations for a
resumption of economic growth. But there is the clear risk that there will be a delay in the return
to growth, pushing Moldova onto a less sustainable economic path. This could happen if reform
implementation is slow, or if there is an exogenous shock affecting production (for example bad
weather) or income (for example a deterioration in the terms of trade). Continued economic
decline could weaken the reformers in Government and erode support for the program.
Moldova's loss of its predominant export market, its reliance on imported energy inputs, its
existing debt service requirements and the fact that investors worldwide are taking a negative
view on emerging markets, could lead to severe financing problems in 1999, both for the
Government and in the balance of payments. To help improve macroeconomic stability, the Bank
is cooperating closely with the IMF in monitoring the fiscal program of the Government, and is
working with bilateral and multilateral partners to provide Moldova with sufficientconcessional
resources.
D. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS
57. Cooperation with the IMF on Moldova has been close. A SDR 135 million three year EFF
was approved in May 1996. The last disbursement under the EFF took place in January 1999.
The SAL II team has worked with the Fund on the analysis of the 1997-99 State and Social Fund
Budgets, and members of the team cooperated with the IMF during its previous missions, most
recently in November 1998. Cooperation with other major donors is also excellent. The
Governments of the Netherlands and Japan have cofinanced previous Bank adjustment
operations, with the Netherlands providing co-financing for SAL II second tranche. The
Netherlands Government, USAID, TACIS, and GTZ are cofinancing the PSD project. The
Netherlands Government and USAID are providing technical assistance for the energy sector
19



restructuring program, the Netherlands Government and TACIS are providing financial support
to the Agriculture Restructuring Agency and USAID has been instrumental in the farm
restructuring program supported by SAL II and the proposed SAC. The TACIS program also
includes technical assistance for pension reform. The Bank and EBRD have worked closely
together on PSD and the financing of the public investment program. The two institutions have
also cooperated on the implementation of structural reform, notably privatization. The Bank has
also cooperated with UNDP on the development of a poverty alleviation strategy and the
establishment of the Strategic Studies Center.
IV. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
58. Credit Amount and Borrower: The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SDR 29.6
million) would be made to the Republic of Moldova, represented by the Ministry of Finance.
Disbursements under the proposed Credit will be made to an account ("Deposit Accounts") of the
Ministry of Finance established at the National Bank of Moldova for this purpose.
59. The Credit will be on IDA terms, with a maturity of 35 years including a grace period of 10
years, and would be disbursed in two tranches: SDR 14.8 million (equivalent to US$ 20 million)
immediately after effectiveness, and SDR 14.8 million (equivalent to US$ 20million) to be
disbursed upon satisfaction of second tranche release conditions (expected about December
1999).
60. Disbursements.    The credit will be released in two tranches, against satisfactory
implementation of the adjustment program, include compliance with stipulated secondtranche
release conditions and maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.  Upon
notification by the Bank of project effectiveness and of second tranche release, the proceeds of
the first and second tranches respectively of the Credit will be deposited by the Bank into the
respective Deposit Account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit into this account the
proceeds of this Credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance imports from non-member
countries, or goods and services on the Bank's standard negative list), the Bank will require the
Borrower to either; (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b)
refund the amount directly to the Bank (in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the Credit). In accordance with the Operational Directive on the
Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment
Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases and, hence,
there will be no procurement requirements.
61. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing. The National Bank of Moldova would maintain records
of all transactions under the credit in accordance with sound accounting practices. Although
routine audits of the Deposit Account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require
audits at any time. In such cases, the Borrower should furnish an audit report not later than six
months after the date of the Association's request for such an audit.
62.   Closing Date. The closing dates of the proposed Credit will be December 31, 2000.
20



V. RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
63. 1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, DC
May 28, 1999
21



ANNEX 1
MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND BACKGROUND
a. 1. The macroeconomic scenario developed for the SAC operation is very similar to the one
developed for the April, 1999 CAS. Under the SAC scenario, sustained improvements in the
macroeconomy come only over the longer term. The underpK.,nings of this improvement would
come from the continuation of the structural reforms undertaken by the Government in 1997-98,
and planned for 1999 and beyond (supported by the Bank's SAL II, SAC, and subsequent
adjustment and investment operations, especially the Public Sector Reform Credit planned for
fiscal year 2000, as well as the IMF's EFF and ensuing ESAF programs).
a.2. Macro-financial stabilization would be achieved through continued fiscal rationalization.
Tighter fiscal targets, set in agreement with the IMF, would be achieved through sharp, up-front
reductions in expenditures-focusing first on eliminating unfunded commitments, and then on
rationalizing the expenditure commitments themselves, the entire process being underpinned by
public sector reform. Though deficit financing would not be monetized, benefiting from a
recovery of demand in domestic T-Bill market and greater multilateral and bilateral support,
devaluation-induced inflation would remainr moderately high (at 35 and 20 percent) over the next
two years.
a.3. Stabilization will also be helped in the medium term by a slowdown in the growth of
external energy-related debt and decumulation of energy arrears as a consequence of energy
sector demonopolization and privatization. This should substantially enhance payment
discipline, reduce commercial and technical losses, and improve the reliability and quality of
energy supply. Over the medium-term, this would substantially contribute to the reduction of
import costs, and should eliminate further assumption of energy arrears by the State, thus
improving the resource balance while limiting the growth of debt stocks and debt service. In the
projections, energy imports fall by 28 percent between 1999-2001, before picking up slowly
again with the growth of the economy in outer years.
a.4. Private sector development would involve a completion under the SAC of farm
privatization and associated agricultural reforms initiated under the SAL II, to improve
conditions for the newly private farmers and the growth of agro-industry and services through
the active solicitation offoreign direct investment. Small and medium enterprises will also see
rapid progress in ownership change, fueling a more road-based growth. Privatization efforts
would also involve steps sale of energy companies to private investors (preferably strategic
investors): first by privatizing distribution companies with SAC support, followed by sale of
generation companies to private investors. Strong growth in exports would be key-through
diversification of export markets away from the CIS countries, and improved competitiveness of
exportables due to productivity gains and a real depreciation of the leu. The private response
would be assured with a backdrop of a range of "second generation" public sector reforms,
improving efficiency and ensuring a conducive environment for private sector growth.
a.5. Finally, the socio-political sustainability of reforms would only be ensured if there is
sufficient progress in protecting the living standards of the people. This would be achieved, in
the short run, by a gradual run-down of internal wage and pension arrears, and in the medium run
through economic growth and Government expenditure re-targeted to the poorest.



a.6. A key assumption under the projected scenario is that sufficient external financing would
be available at affordable terms-to ease Moldova's transition to longer-term sustainability. In
1999, the financing will be available mostly through privatization receipts (especially through the
sale of the telecommunications monopoly, Moldetelecom) and from increased financing from
bilateral and multilateral donors. In 2000, foreign investment flows would be attracted by the
sale of energy companies. From 2001 onwards, much of the funding will have to continue to
come from concessional lending from bilateral and multilateral donors, but will also need to be
through accelerated foreign direct investment (particularly in the energy and agro-processing
sectors), and renewed access to international capital markets at non-punitive rates later in the
period. The current account balance would improve sharply-from 20 percent of GDP in 1998 to
a projected 7 percent in 2003-because of a pick up in export growth and import compression in
the initial years. Import compression would be driven mainly by sharp drops in energy imports
that would result from improved collections and removal of price distortions in the energy sector,
but would also be a result of higher minimum tariffs, a large real devaluation in 1999 and
subdued growth performances in 1999 and 2000.
a.7. The decline in the foreign savings rate accompanying the improvement in the current
account deficit would be offset by increases in the domestic savings rate. Because of financial
deepening, the gross domestic savings rate would increase from an estimated -6 percent in 1998
to 4 percent in 2002, and to 15 percent by 2008. Private savings would also increase because of
the steady decline in the marginal private propensity to consume that would accompany the rise
of average private incomes above the subsistence level. (Over the last few years, as personal
incomes fell towards subsistence level and formal savings opportunities remained
underdeveloped, the marginal private propensity to consume has increased, with the private
consumption rate rising from 44 percent to an estimated 85 percent between 1993-98). Increased
public savings arising from fiscal stabilization would result in sharp reductions in budget deficits
and decumulation of domestic arrears. The real domestic investment rate would drop initially as
the foreign savings trend would dominate the domestic savings trend in the initial years.
Nonetheless, the scenario projects that the implementation of fundamental structural reforms,
particularly agricultural restructuring, land reforms, and enterprise privatization, would increase
productivity and boost GDP growth from a negative 3 percent next year to a steady state of about
five percent a year by 2005. This will be underpinned by export growth, which is projected to
reach 8 percent by 2001. External arrears would be completely paid off by 2003. After a drop in
1998, the import cover of National Bank of Moldova's external reserves would gradually
increase to 3 months. Under this scenario, the ratio of external debt plus external arrears to GDP
would peak at 139 percent in 2000 before beginning a descent towards the empirically established
sustainable ratio of 50 percent, but will remain over the 50 percent mark over the next decade.
The debt service to exports ratio would generally remain at sustainable levels of under 25
percent.



Table 1.
Modda F       n Nb xaic    Indcators
InBeRIatefodGmSmb
1997     199      1999     200      21       202      2M3      2004     2005    2a06       2007     2D
RIW GroAh P.te
GDP                                     1.30    -86%     -29%      0!       12%      25%  3. Ph 4.50  5 .0%               5.0%     5.0%     5.G%
Ccurrtron.   0.6%    -7.9%    -5.7%    -52/h                                         .70/.    0.6%     1.4%     24%      27%      29%      3.0%
PerCaPid\de Otexsrpion                          10.1%    -35%    -3.2/o   -4.4%    .0.4%      1.0%      1.4%     Z6%      28%      3.0%     31%
I riaton (ave)                         130%      8.0%    350%    20.0%    10.0%      80%      5.0% UP%  5.0      5C%      5.00%    5.0%     5.0%
I rnaai (End dxperiod)                  9.0%/    21.5%    275%    15.0%     9.0%     6.5%     50%       5.0%     5.0%     5.0%     5.0% 0%  5.0%
Expats (GFS)                                   -14.1%     25%      5.G%/    7.5%     7.5%     7.5%      7.7/o    7.8%0    80h  8.0%        8.G/
I -ts( (FS)                                     -1.3%    -80%    -5.G%      4.0%     1.0%    3al%       a5%      4.5%     52%      5s5%     5.8%
oah BBer                                       15.9%    -50%   -10.0%   -10.0%      6.0%     0.0%      1.7/o    29%      32%      3.3%     32/o
QoW (apitd                                      0.7P/o    22%/a    31%     40%      4.5%     5.5%      62%      7.2%     72%      72%      7.2/o
As %GDP
Exprts                                526%    51.0%    676%    68.G%    71.3%    73.8%    75.7/o   7720/a   78.3%    79.0%    79.70/o   80.4
I lpoxts                               76.5%    80.9%   101.2%/o   98.6%    932%/a   91.7/o   90.9%    89.7P/    88.9%    88.7%    88.8%    89.2/o
Re-erm Balance                        -23.9%   -29.9%   -33 /o  -30.6/ -220%   -17.8%  -152a -125%   -10.6%   -9.8%    -9.1%    -8.7/o
CTert Ao t                            -16.5%   -20.1%   -26%   -18.7P/o  -11.70/o   -7.86   -6.6%    -5.4%    -3.6%    -26%    -22%    -1.7P6
GossNalional SWng                      10.4%     4.7/o    63%      6.2/o   124%    15.2%    16.5%    17.8%    19.6h   20.7P    212%/a   21.8h
ReI G( rssDomresticIrestnmt Fab        24.2h   23.5h   22G%    21.Gh   20.0%    19.G0    19.0%    19.Gh   19.,G    19.G%    19.G    19.%Y
Narinal Gtss Dxnestc Inmes nt ale      24.2h   24.0%    258%    249h   24.G0    231%    231%    232h    23.2h   23.3%    234%    23.5/a
Rulic                                 2P7      1.9h     06%     1.0G     1.4%     1.6h    1.7P     1.8%     1.8h     18%      1.6h    1.8h
Rivate                               21.5%    221%    253%    24.G%    22e/6%   21.5%    21.4%    21.4%    21.5%    215%    21.6h   21.7%
G a ,Fvemne                            43.1%    34.9h   325%    326h    326h   33.0G    33.1%    33.1%    33.1%    33.1%    33.1%    33.1%
dw Ta Re'lui                         35.00   23.00%    2a2/o   28.5%    28.6h   28.9%    29.2h    29.3h   29.5%    29.7%    29.90%o 301%
ern-el Cash Exdiixe                    51.1%    37.8%    3500/a   35.2Yo   352/a   3;.5%    35.6    35.6h   35.6%o   355%    35.6/   35.6h
hs S Defidt(cash bais)                 -8.O%     -_29h   -26%    -26h   -26%       -25%     -25%     -25h   -25%    -25%        -25%    -258%
Rs,d Dsidt (morTriairnt bEsis)        -46h   -8.%h    -     /1.6    -1.5%    -1.2%o   1.G0 1.G  1.5%       0.0%     0.5%     0.5% 00-25
Anes aursamian                         43.40%    W8%     -Q90/o   -1. 1%    -1.40%   -1.5%/   -1.5%/   -1.Gh    O.Gho   O.Gho   O.Gh    OGh



Table 2.
MNfdod Ea-m of Pawft vIlicns d USD)
IRnxdiPRScnaio
1997    iW          1998      2DO        2001      Z02        2003       20D4       205        20am      2007       20am
UedsEls s(FCB)                  851       6         688        704        771        841       917       1a)1       1093       1185      1286       1393
Nxtr&c-SWes                     132       1D4       108        114        120        129       141        154        168        184       201        290
Expots d (NFS                    983      8D0        797        818       891        971       1057       1155      1261       139       1487       1616
rdselnpors(FOB)                1235      1108      1037       1015        997       1027      1080       1141       1218       1307      1407       1518
brtixrSevios                    195       161       156        171        169        178       189        20         214        231       251        273
I nportsof G1FS                 1430     129        1193       1186      1166       12)5       1289       1342      1432       1539       1658       1791
ow. BEy                        337       z9        298        288        2e0       2d8        248        253        281        2e8       276        284
otw Cital                      186       180       186        197        210       25         244        285        291       32)        352        386
PReutce mate                    -447      -4)9      -397       -358      -275       -234       -212       -187      -171        -189      -171       -175
Net Factorc ie                   -57       -0        -85        -99      -122       -129       -145       -163      -159       -151       -149       -140
FacoPayrnents                   76       94        101        116        138        147       166        184        182        175       174        167
oW: Itrest                     52       68         77         85        98        101        104        108        99         87         81         68
ow: Fwfit FaTittnes            24       25         24         30        40         47         62        79         83         88         93         99
Far FoiMpts                      19       14         16         17         17        19         20        22         23         24         25         27
C,rut Transfers                   45       74         76         65        55         50         50         50        50         5)         50         5)
Woars FmtriKs                    150      159        162        176        196       210        215        220       222        ZB         228        231
CnIet Acrt Ba&1e                -309      -316      -243       -225      -146       -103        -92        .80        -58       -I6        -42        -34
FaiIrvesBrent                    79        80        120       100        100        110       110        111        122        133       143        154
Portkio  estmen                  25       -28         10        15         20        25         30         35         40         40        40         40
Acaxrr iatlon of Arsm            -45       -10         0        -53        -53       -3         -53          0          0         0          0          0
NetLong-Term Las                 282      12         192        156        77         29         16        -63       -82        -93       -105  -   -128
G    sDWirsments(ed. MF)        335      247        263        249       228        283        217        155       118        1C6         85         43
ow. GP                          0       75         60        105        81        148         92        37         -1        -18        45         -a6
Amtizaticn                       53      118         83        193       120        220        182        2)2       198        193        186        165
CerCait  FIONS                    18        0         0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0         0          0
CanginNlntl.Sm(-=irce            -50       145       -78          7          2        -9        -12        -13       -22         3         -356       -31
Che insevesofMactayA             -51      209        -98        -18        -3        -31        -21        -23       -22        -25        -30        -31
IMF  uect                          1       -64        20         25        35         23          9         10          0         -9        -7         0
MarD
G(mILUS$)                     1869      1588       1179      12)3       1251       1315      1397       1497       1611       1734      1866       20X9
Aae BhW Pae  (IU                 5         5         10        11         12         13        13         13         13         14         14        14
Fbd Exdn-RaFte 1/              100       105        137       137        137        137       137        137        137        137       137        137
TenmofTrade 2I                  100      195        100        94         93        92         91         90         90         86        87         86
Gross Frves in Mxts d s m        3         1         2          3          3         3          3          3          3          3         3          3
2/ r       =  A.pn,iat
21 1rrese = imroerrent



Table 3.
NMkAm Debthda&
1997   1998   1999   2DEO   2011    2002   2M0    2()4   2M           2{06   2007   2008
TotalDOD(U$4                                  1077.0  1141.7  1354.4  15355  16473  1692.6  173).4  1637.5  16075  14892  1411.9  1277.1.
QIstadckAmm                                           21Q0   210.0  157.5  105.0    525        0.0     00      0.0     00     00      0.0
l ebtService(X)                                1245   2723   245.8  2346   251.6  362.7  330.8  34Q 1  334.9  325.7  3024   264.6
TotalIbGlP                                    57.6%   728%  114.90/o 127.6/o 131.7%  1288%  123.9/  1128%   998%N  85./o  75.6%   63.6%
(Pbt+AnwsyGY                                  69.4%   852%  13270/o 140.P/o 14Q1%  1328%  123./o 1128%   99.80/o  85.9%o  75.6%   63.6%
lbtDSavice/(G3D                                67/o  17.4%  29%o  195%/o  20.1%   27.6%   23P?/o  2270/o 218'/o  18.8%   162%   132D/o
IrtatDJP                                       28%    4.4%    65%0      . 7.1%    790    7.6%    7.4%    71%   6.1%    5.0G/o   4.4%    34%
DIS3vie/TotallBwts                            IQ8%   28.0%   25.20/o  23%/o  2288%   302%/o  25.6%/  24.4%   222%   2).1%   17.4%   141%
IfYBqxxt                                      935%  1173%  139.0%  151.8%  1492%  141.1%  133.9%  120G90/a l7C/o  92.0G/a  81.1%   682%
IBDDIt( OM                                     135.0   171.0  166.0  15&0   149.0   140.0  1288   117.3  1IA.8   93.4   749    554
nkAIt(3m                                        35.0   35.0   143.0  207.0  2520   292.0  332.0  3720   412.0  4520   515.0  553.0
M  RDD&S&rv      eDr                             9.0    112    175    175    195    185    19.7   19.9   18.7   185    304    292
lDIDADchY(CP                                   9.1%   13.1%   262%   303D/  321%   329%   33.0%/  327%   321%   31.5D/a  316%   303%
OD+IrDAJth)daIxTD                             15.8%   18.00/G  228%   23.8%/o  243%   25.5%   266%/o  29.0%/  322/o  36.6%   41.8%   47.6%
IEMRD& Sm=e/GEP                                05%    0.7%    15%    1.5%/a   1.6%    1.4%    1.40/o   1.3%    1.2/o   1.1%    16%    15%
IBRDDelSr  /Ttd0EVml                           Q8%    12%    1.8%    1.7D/o   1.8%    1.5%    15/o   1.4%0    . 1.2/    1.1%    1.7%    16%
IIDlt Sa-k=  /T(t  btSve                       72%    4.1%    7.1%    75/o   7.7%    5.1%    6G0/a  5.8%   5.6%/   5.P/o  1000/  11.0/o
PflcJitosDch (L t                              5150   5D3.0  691.0   2Q00   9200   9835  1022.5  1055.6  1081.8  1C9QO  1129.7  1137.7
Pfie      itosDU     ie  Dx(U 9"                460    99.0   1C95    892    868   109.7  135.4  1467   156.7   1725   177.5  1675
dedfiQhrs:to A3P                              275%   321%   586%   682Z/o  73.6%   748%   73.2/o  705%   67.2%o  62.9   605%   566%
PffT ddiDQslTota1 1DO                         47.8%   44.1%   51L0%/o 53.4%   55.8%   5&1%   59.1%   626%   67.3%   73.Z/o  8000/e  89.1%
mfCdiG6It slz Su-v=/GCE                        25%    63%    93%    7.4%    69%/o   83%    9.P0/o   9.8%   9.70/o   9.9%    95%    83%
arlCitlSiMce/TdBltrtS                          40%   102%   112%    8.8%/   7.90/o  9.1%   1050/o  105% 104%  O10.P/o  102%    89a/%
PhflAGitD Dt Sr / Tbl Dbt rv=                 369%   363%   446%   38.G/%  345%   303%   40Q9/a  43.1%   468D/o  53.00/a  587%   633%
PMbid         d           1i s 11F, adFdaD



Moldova at a glance                                                                5/28199
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                           Central     Low-
Moldova       Asia  incorne      Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        4.3      476      2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    460      2,320      350
GNP (At/as method, JS$ billions)                       2.0     1,106      722                        T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%jO}                                      -0.2       0.2       2.1
Labor force (%)                                .      -0.2       0.5       23      GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991497)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)              -
Urban population (% of total population)               53         67        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       67         69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               20        25        78
Child malnutntion (% of children under 5)               ..         .         ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation)                  56         ..       71
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                     2          ..      47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  97         92       91                   Moldova
Mate                                                 98         ..      100                   Low-income group
Female                                               97         ..       S1   j
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1998      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            -,                 1.7       1.9
Gross domestic investment/GOP                  ..        .      24A       24.2                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..       ..      56.2      52.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                       5.6       0.3
Gross national savings/GDP                                      11.9       7.7
Current account balance/GDP                                    -12.6    -16.5      Domestic 
Interest paymentslGDP                                            1.4       2.1     Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                  50.8      S7.5
Total debt service/exports                                       5.5      10.8
Present value of debt/GDP                               ..         .      50.0
Present value of debt/exports                                      .      81.3
Indebtedness
197"86  1987-97     1996       1997   1998.02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.4    -11.6      -7.8       1.3        -. Moldova
GNP per capita                      2.5    -10.8      -8.4       0,0             I               Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..       6.4     15,0      11.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         100
Agriculture                                    -                30.5      31.4
Industry                                                        32.4      34.9      5 
Manufacturing                                                 26.0      27.8 o
Services                                                        37.1      33.7     -
Private consumption                                             67.2      73.6    -100
General government consumption                 ..       ..      27.1      26.1                     GDI       *  GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..      75.0      76.5                                G
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                           -7.8     -11.9      10.7    40
Industry                                             -12.3      -6.5      -7.0    20
Manufactufing                                 .        .
Services                                             -19.9      -3.7    -19.5   -20       92   9    94   95.  96   97
Private consumption                            ..    11.8        8.7      17.3
General govemment consumption                  ..      0.1      -4.1      -2.8
Gross domestic investment                      ..   -21.9       -9.6       0.5    -
Imports of goods and services                  ..    11.2       30.3      21.3                  Exports     0 oimports
Gross national product                        3.4    -10.9      -8.7      -0.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Moldova
PRiCES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                     1976      1986        1996        1997       Inflation (%1)
(%/ change)                                                                                      i,ooo
Consumer prices                                         .         ..       23.5       13.0        900
Implicit GDP deflator                                   .         ..       28.2       11.6        6
40C 
Government finance                                                                                200
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                 n 
Current revenue                                         .         ..       36.5        39.6                 92    93    94    95    99    97
Current budget balance                                 ..         ..        7.9       -7.7                -G       P deflator  -~---CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                                 ...                 -7.6       -8.0      _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
TRADE__                                                                                              _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _    _  _
(US$ millions)                                      1976      1986        1996        1997       Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                         822..  822  651          -
Live animals and animal products                      .         ..         75         75       1,200-
Ve,getable products                                   .         ..         86        110       1,000
Manufactures                                          .         ..        103         59        909.
Total imports (cif)                                     .         ..      1,056      1,235        900
Food                                                  .         ..         50         65        400
Fuel and energy                                       .         ..        316        337        200
Capital goods                                         .         ..        100        130 
Export price index (1995=100)                                               ~~~~~~~~~~91   92   93   94   9597
Import price index (1995=100)                                                 ..                               Exports       0 I mports
Terms  of trade  (1995--l00)                            .                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                      1976      1988         1996       1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%/)
Exports of goods and services                           .         ..        956        983        0                                        -
Imports of goods and services                           .         ..      1,248      1,430       -2  91           90-         9 90   96   97
Resource balance                                        .         ..       -312       -447       -4
Net income                                              .         ..        -40        -57        -
Net current transfers                                   .         ..        143        195        0
Current accouint balance                                .         ..       -209       -309       -12
-14
Financing items (net)                                   .         ..        242        359       -19
Changes in net reserves                                -.         .          33        *50       -1
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                  .
Conversion rate (DEC, local/lUS$)                       .          .        4.6         4.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976      1986        1996       1997
(US$ millions)                                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                    .         ..        844      1,077
IBRD                                                  .         .        142         135
IDA                                                   .         .           0         35                           3: 21  A 105
Total debt service                                      -          .         54        125                                         BOB3
IBRD                                                  .         .          10          9           F 310
IDA                                                  .          ..0                    0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                                      0: 200
Official grants                                      .          ..         10          6
Official creditors                                   ..74                             48
Private creditors                                    .          ..        63           0
Foreign direct investment                            .
Portfolio equity                                                                                         E                  :1
World Bank program
Commitments                                                                                   A - IBRD                           E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                        .          ..0                   40      B -IDA      D - Other multilateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                                 .          ..0                    0      C - MF                             0 - Short-term
Net flows                                            ...0                             40      __  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _   _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _
Intere-st payments                                   .          ..         10          9
Net transfers                                        .          ..        -10         31
Development Economics                                                                                                                   5/26/99



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 05/28/99
Annex 2 - Page 1
Status of Bank Group Operations in Moldova
Operations Portfolio
As of 24-May-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                      and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project TD    Year                 Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD         IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig     Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 4
Active Projects
MD-PE-44840      1999   GOVERNMENT OF MOLDOVA              SOCIAL INV. FUND                           0.00       15.00         0.00              14.77         0.00        0.00
MD-PE-35771      1998   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                FIRST CADASTRE                             0.00       15.90         0.00              14.05         1.37        0.00
MD-PE-35781      1998   GOVT. OF MOLDOVA                   RURAL FINANCE                              0.00        5.00         0.00               2.95         -.37        0.00
MD-PE-44147      1998   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                SAL II                                   55.00        45.00         0.00              65.17       45.00         0.00
MD-PE-35811      1997   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                PSD II                                     0.00        9.00         0.00               8.03         3.18        0.00
MD-PE-8558       1997   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                GENERAL EDUCATION                        16.80         5.00         5.00              15.67         5.26        1.46
MD-PE-8555       1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                ENERGY                                   10.00         0.00         0.00               3.18          .87        0.00
MD-PE-8556       1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                AGRICULTURE I                            10.00         0.00         0.00               2.40         1.28        0.00
MD-PE-8561       1996   REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                PRIV. SECT. DEV. I                       35.00         0.00         0.00              10.24         8.76        0.00
Total                                                                                              126.80        94.90        5.00              136.46       65.35         1.46
Active Projects        Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    77.38              145.82               223.20
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                 2.16                2.16
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                   216.70              143.67               360.37
Amount sold                       :                 0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                  0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :               136.46                 0.00              136.46
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                                      Page I



MOP Schedule D
Annex: 2 - Page 2
Moldova
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval             Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997                   INCON                    6.57    2.00    0.00    0.00    4.60    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                     6.57    2.00    0.00    0.00    4.60    2.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Conmuitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999                   VOXTEL                  10.00    1.25    5.00   25.00
Total Pending Conmmitment:          10.00    1.25    5.00   25.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 05/28/99



ANNEX 3
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.   Time Taken to prepare:                  6 months
2.   Prepared by:                             Government with the
assistance of IDA staff
3.   Preparation mission:                    January 30, - February 15, 1999
4.   Pre-Appraisal/Appraisal missions:        April 6, -April30, 1999
5.   Negotiations:                           May 18, - May 20, 1999
6.   Planned Board presentation:              June 24, 1999
7.   Planned date of effectiveness:          August 7, 1999
8.   Expected program completion:            December, 2001
Staffing
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn (ECAVP)
Country Director:    Roger W. Grawe (ECC07)
Sector Director:    Pradeep K. Mitra (ECSPE)
Sector Leader:    Hafez Ghanem (ECSPE)
Responsible Staff:    Mark Davis (Team Leader, ECSPE),
Arup Banerji, Sandeep Mahajan, Jariya Hoffman (ECSPE),
Sandu (ECCMD), Csaba Csaki, Achim Fock (ECSSD), Vladislav Vucetic,
Laslo Lovei, William Porter, Michael Haney (ECSEG), Theodor Stolojan
(Consultant), Svetoslav Tintchev, Carlo Maria Rossotto, Juan Navas-Sabater,
Garreth Locksley (EMMTI)
Contributors:    James Parks (ECCMD), Kathleen McCollom (ECCA2), Lilia Burunciuc
(ECC1 1), Sonja Brajovic-Bratanovic (ECSPF), Alan Thompson (ECSHD),
Peer Reviewers:    Laura Tuck (ECCSD), Karl Georg Jechoutek (EMTDR)
Team Assistants:    Nancy Davies-Cole, Doreen Duff (ECSPE)



ANNEX 4
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1. The regional financial crisis has had a huge impact on our economy undermining
progress made in structural reforms-e.g., substantial reduction in controls over
prices, privatization of a high proportion of production units, and monetary stability-
and is seriously threatening the overall macroeconomic sustainability of our country.
After recording a positive GDP growth rate in 1997 for the first time since
independence, output fell drastically by approximately 9 percent last year mainly due
to the impact of the regional financial crisis. Financial viability is coming under
increasing pressure due to high and only partially financed public expenditure, that is
resulting in a rapid build-up of domestic payment arrears, and contributing to a large
current account deficit that is financed by rapid accumulation of external debt.
Excessive and inefficient use of mostly imported energy is also a key cause of the
weak external financial situation. The regional financial crisis is exacerbating an
already precarious external financial situation by putting pressure on the value of the
leu, reducing demand for Moldovan products, and cutting off Moldova's access to
external capital.
2. Despite these short-term  setbacks, the Government remains committed to
consolidating its reform efforts by implementing further key structural reforms. We
recognize that this is the only path towards achieving improvements in medium- and
long-term prospects of sustained and sustainable development.
3. Improvements in growth performance would necessarily come from increased private
sector activity in agriculture, agro-processing and other export-oriented production
units, and the services sector, and through the creation of new markets for Moldovan
exports. This requires us to attract increased levels of private and foreign investment
in the above-mentioned sectors, and rationalize investment away from inefficient and
unproductive uses to more productive ones. To achieve this, we will strive towards
creating an enabling environment, by increasing macroeconomic stability, improving
business conditions, further liberalizing the economy, and deepening privatization, to
generate greater incentives for increased private and foreign investment.
4. Recognizing the significance of putting the Government's financial house in order to
achieve financial sustainability, we will first eliminate unfunded expenditure
commitments and then rationalize the expenditure commitments themselves, and
continue the restructuring efforts in the energy sector. We have already set tighter
fiscal targets for 1999 in agreement with the IMF. Prudent fiscal policy will, we
believe, create conditions that will increase our access to greater concessional and



commercial financing, to cover the commitment deficit and steadily pay off budgetary
arrears.
5. The Government recognizes the key areas of macroeconomic vulnerability and, in
collaboration with the World Bank and the IMF, has implemented some key structural
reforms to partially address these weaknesses. Through the economic reform program
supported by the World Bank's SAL II and the IMF's EFF, the Government has put
in place a framework for private-sector led growth and increasing financial discipline.
The program objectives include: (a) fiscal tightening that would reduce budgetary
arrears and, by lowering interest rates, would reduce crowding out of private
investment; (b) agriculture reforms including land reforms and farrn restructuring, to
reverse the decline in agriculture; (c) privatization and de-monopolization of
enterprises and the creation of an urban real estate market to improve the efficiency of
investment; (d) energy sector reforms including restructuring and privatizing the
sector, to strengthen the financial viability of the sector and to enhance the quality of
energy supply; and (e) greater social protection by restructuring of the pay-as-you-go
pension scheme and better targeting of budgetary allocation towards the social sector.
6. The Government is determined to continue its reform efforts, to ensure economic
progress, financial stability, and protection of the vulnerable. The Government
believes that the structural reform program has yet to build the critical mass of
reforms necessary to achieve a tangible change in the economy, and is committed to
the continuation and completion of the program to fully achieve its goals. Therefore,
the objective of the activities of the Government, in cooperation with the World Bank,
is to promote structural adjustment of the national economy and creation of the
conditions for stable growth, focused on the stimulation of private sector
development, while preserving financial viability of the economy. In achieving these
goals, we have identified a set of fundamental policy measures for the period
1999/2000. These policies will focus on improving efficiency through increased
privatization, particularly in the energy and agriculture sectors.  Broadly, these
policies may be summarized as:
  Improve the efficiency of the agriculture sector by: (a) completing the restructuring of
formner collective and state farmns into market-conforrning efficiency-motivated units;
(b) maintaining a liberal course of macroeconomic policies for agriculture; (c)
completing the privatization of input supply, grain handling, and agro-processing; (d)
rehabilitating agro-processing; and (e) creating a supportive environment for new
private farms.
*  Improve the efficiency and restore financial viability of the energy sector through
privatization, debt restructuring, development of electricity market rules, reduction of
budget subsidies, improved financial performance, and environmental management.
*  Divesting the remaining state shares in enterprise while supporting restructuring of
the privatized enterprises and creating a functioning land market for them. Support
growth and job creation through an accelerated sale of the small assets, leased



premises and land to local entrepreneurs. Give priority to improving the corporate
governance structure to strengthen enterprise restructuring, by enabling a critical mass
of ownership concentration, especially by attracting direct investments, particularly of
strategic investors, into medium and large enterprises.



A. Agriculture Sector Reforms
Towards Completing the National Farm Program and Supporting Private Farig
7. The Government of Moldova believes that the agricultural sector (agriculture plus the
agro-processing industry)-which accounts for about 40 percent of GDP and over
half of employment-should be the engine for future growth. However, we recognize
that the old structure of state and collective farms is incapable of enkindling the
export-led growth that is required for Moldova's economic development.
Accordingly, the Government has undertaken an agricultural reform program that
attempts to lay the market-based foundations for agricultural growth-especially
through farm restructuring, demonopolization and privatization of the grain sector, the
creation of a favorable macro-environment for agricultural growth, and creating a
supportive environment for new private farms.
The Farm Restructuring Program
8. Progress on farm restructuring has been good. Our efforts to accelerate and facilitate
the process of large-scale farm restructuring have included:
*  revision and improvement of the exit and registration procedures for private farns;
*  review of ongoing farm restructuring pilot projects, preparation of practical guidelines
for the dissemination of these experiences, and extension of these projects to the
national level;
*  commencement of the functioning of the Agricultural Restructuring Agency, a non-
governmental institution that implements and supports the nationwide program of
farm restructuring; and
n proposal to the Parliament (subsequently approved) in late 1998 of an amendment of
the legislation on bankruptcy procedures, to expedite the process of land privatization.
9. As a result of these efforts, by end-1998, out of about 950 large scale-farms, 74 farms
had been dismantled and land titles were provided to their new private owners. A
further 67 farms (for a total of 141) were broken down and fully dismantled without
outside assistance, but titling has not been completed on these farms due to lack of
required funds. By December 31, 1998, 310,000 applications to register private farms
had been submitted, of which 241,000 were registered. As a result, the amount of
agricultural land belonging to the private farming sector has increased to 317,000
hectares in addition to about 400,000 hectares used by household and garden plots.
The individual private sector is now farming on about 30% of total agricultural land.
In 1998, 61% of Gross Agricultural Output was produced by the private fanning
sector. In addition, the restructuring of another 350 farms is in process and is expected
to be completed by end-May 1999. At that point about half of the farming sector,
involving about 450,000 new land owners, will have been privatized and restructured.



We expect that the total number of large-scale farms undergoing restructuring will
reach 600 by December 1999.
10. We recognize that the farm restructuring agenda is still unfinished, and plan to
accelerate the process with local restructuring initiatives and support from donor-
sponsored pilot projects. Specifically, the Government intends to improve the farm
registration process at the primaria level and adopt a law for the expedited settlement
of farm debt. Also, we will continue our efforts to provide land titling under a unified
parcel based system parallel with the process of farm privatization, in order to ensure
that at least 40% of agricultural land parcels will be titled by the end of 1999.
11. The Government is committed to creating a legal framework, that has been largely
missing, for the expedited settlement of debt of the unrestructured farms to maintain
the momentumn of farm restructuring. The Government expects that adoption of such
framework would enable restructuring of most large-scale farms by the middle of
2000. We will enforce strict financial discipline even after the farm restructuring is
completed and debt is settled, by initiating bankruptcy at all farming organizations
that are determined to be financially insolvent. Towards this end, the Government is
preparing a draft law that would conform to the following principles:
t Extension of the process of settlement of debt to cover the entire debt of the farming
sector, including private sector debt.
>  Clearing farm debts through the transfer of required assets for settling debts to the
state, after honoring existing registered liens of creditors. Settling all state and para-
statal debts and providing a framework for settling the claims of the private creditors.
>  Ending the process with the closing of all remaining enterprises, and distributing any
remaining assets after debt settlement to the farm's privatization fund, to entitled farm
members.
9  Automatic implementation of the process at the level of the farm.
>  Completion of the process within 18 months, tied to the National Land Program.
>  Making clear that this debt-clearing process is an extraordinary, one-time operation
and applies only to farms in the National Land Program.
12. The Government has been successful in creating the legal and institutional
conditions for a functioning market for agricultural land, as a result of which, by end-
1998, 241,000 parcels of land (6% of agricultural land) were registered. To achieve
this, we amended the Law on Normative Price of Land to restrict the use of normative
prices and eliminate lease control for privately-owned land, and developed the
procedures for land transactions, including the reduction of transfer related taxes to
2% of the actual value of transaction. Also, with the help of the World Bank's First
cadastre (Real Estate Registration) Project and USAID's Rural Land Project, we have
initiated the establishment of a national cadastre system. As a result, the Government
expects to complete the titling and registration of an additional 20% to 30% of land
parcels in Moldova over the next 8 months. The first cases of completed agricultural
land sales already indicate the emergence of a private land market in Moldova.



The Environment for Private Farming
13. Moldova has maintained a relatively liberal price and trading regime for most of the
agricultural outputs and inputs since early 1992. The demonopolization of the input
supply and grain handling and trading sector-namely the former state monopolists
'Fertilitate' and 'Cereale'-have been on the Government agenda since the mid
1990s. Consequently, 17 units of the former Cereale and 30 units the former
Fertilitate were included in the 97/98PP.  In addition, in 1998, the central
administrative unit of former Cereale (the 'Cereale department') was liquidated by a
Government resolution, and new regulatory units were created for agricultural
chemicals and the grain sector. The last remaining state control over the grain
markets was removed in 1997. The Law on Public Procurement was adopted by the
Parliament in 1997. In 1998, for the first time after several years, the Government did
not interfere in the grain market and the rather modest state grain purchases were
made in full conformity with the new public procurement system.
14. Unfortunately, we have not been successful in our efforts to fully privatize the
Cereale and Fertilitate units. With the exception of one unit of Fertilitate, none of the
Cereale and Fertilitate units included in the 97/98PP were fully privatized despite
several attempts. This was due to the high indebtedness of these entities, and
significant environmental liabilities of some of the. Fertilitate units. The bulk of the
wine industry has also remained in state ownership.
15. The Government is, however, fully committed to completing the process of
privatizing input supply, grain handling and agro-processing, and will follow up with
the following actions:
-  The inclusion of the remaining 6 Fertilitate and 16 Cereale units in the 99/OOPP.
-  The inclusion of all remaining state owned wineries in the 99/OOPP.
-  The facilitation of the sales of remaining state shares in these enterprises by reduction
of initial prices, as well as by clearing a significant portion of the debt of the
Fertilitate and Cereale entities within the framework of the expedited farn debt
settlement program discussed above.
16. The Government acknowledges that modernization of the agro-processing sector is
lagging the rest of the agriculture reform process. We also recognize that a modem
and internationally competitive agro-processing industry is an essential precondition
for the success of land reform programs. Therefore, it is our intention to make the
facilitation of the agro-processing industry a major objective of our agriculture reform
program over the next year. We will initiate steps to develop a business-oriented
competitive environment in the agro-processing sector to attract more domestic
private and foreign investment-which is essential to upgrade the sector's level of
technology-into the agro-processing sector. The Government's action plan on this
will include selling the shares of agro-processing industry obtained by the
Privatization Department through the expedited farm restructuring program.



17. The macroeconomic environment for agriculture has improved in recent years due
the implementation of the agriculture reform package supported by the World Bank's
SAL II. As part of this effort, a study of agricultural taxation and subsidies was
prepared in March 1998 by a consulting firm with significant participation of the
Government. The major conclusions of this review that were also incorporated in the
1999 budget were:
> maintenance of land tax as the primary form of taxing primary agriculture;
> replacement of the collection of taxes in kind by cash payments;
>  elimination of state guarantees for any credits to enterprises in the agricultural sector;
>  cancellation of non-cash support through procurement and price support for grain and
milk; cancellation of compensation for national calamities in the form of debt
reduction;
> reduction of the 1998 level of the water (irrigation) subsidy by 50%; and
>  cancellation of intervention on the milk market in the form of tax reduction.
As a result of these measures, the agricultural tax system in Moldova has become
more transparent and distortive subsidies to agriculture have been almost fully
eliminated.
18. In accordance with the findings of the taxation and subsidies study, the Government
supports the new class of private farmers by giving them a cash grant to be used in
time for the 1999 spring planting season. These grants are allocated on a per hectare
basis, to private farmers only. These grants are also be capped so that smaller
farmers, who also have the least access to credit, would be proportionately larger
beneficiaries. To align private incentives properly, the Government conveys to the
beneficiaries that this is a one-time operation and should not be taken as an ongoing
assistance program. Also, any future Government support to the agriculture sector
will be focused on efficiency and investment enhancement and in the form of tax
refunds rather than direct budgetary transfers or tax exemptions.



B. Reform Program in the Energy Sector
Towards Greater Competition and Privatization
19. The Government of Moldova has initiated a program of reform to restructure and
privatize the energy sector. The primary objective of the reform is to restore financial
viability of the sector and its capability to ensure a reliable energy supply to all
paying customers at the lowest cost, promoting environmentally and socially
sustainable economic growth. The objective is to be achieved through a number of
inter-related measures designed to rapidly privatize and commercialize energy supply,
enable competition in the competitive segments of the energy industry and improve
regulation in its monopolistic segments, relieve the Government of its role of a
guarantor of energy imports and subsidizer of energy consumption, improve financial
and technical performance of the industry, fight corruption, and protect the most
vulnerable segments of the society. Private ownership and competitive market
relations are expected to substantially enhance payment discipline, reduce commercial
and technical losses, and improve reliability and quality of energy supply. This will
direct energy consumption toward economically viable segments of the economy and
promote economic growth while, at the same time, stimulating energy conservation
and improved efficiency in energy production and use.
Privatization and Restructuring
20. Electric Power Industry. The centerpiece of Government's program is rapid
privatization of the electric power and gas industries. The Government is undertaking
intensive efforts to privatize electricity distribution and generation. Parliament has
adopted a law on the individual privatization of electricity companies, giving the
authority to the Government to proceed with privatization without further
involvement of Parliament. This paves the way for sales of electricity companies to
strategic investors who will have the necessary capital and commercial and technical
know-how to run them. The involvement of a reputable investment bank is critical to
the success of this process. The selection will be completed and contract signed by
end-May 1999. All shares of the five distribution companies -- REDs Chisinau,
Centru, Nord, Nord-Vest, and Sud -- will be offered for sale by mid-August, and sold
by end of 1999. Privatization of controlling shares of the three generation companies
-- CET-1, CET-2, and CET-Nord -- will closely follow: the Government will invite
proposals by end of October 1999 and complete the sale by March 31, 2000.
21. Gas Industry. The Government finished restructuring, commercialization and
privatization of the gas industry by completing the establishment of the Moldovagas
joint stock company with a controlling majority of its shares owned by RAO
Gazprom by, acquired through a debt-for-equity swap initiated last year. Moldovagas



will be a holding company which will include a transmission subsidiary and a number
of distribution subsidiaries. Licenses will be issued to the subsidiary companies,
rather than to the holding company. The transmission subsidiary will hold only the
transmission license and will not engage in the buying and selling of gas.
Moldovagas' distribution subsidiaries will be responsible for gas purchases without
any Government guarantees and will be responsible for ensuring full collections of
payments from their customers. Government will not interfere with the rights of the
companies to cut-off supply to non-paying customers and enforce payments through
legal actions, including bankruptcy proceedings. Moldovagas' transmission and
distribution subsidiaries will provide non-discriminatory access to their networks to
other gas suppliers. The owner of the majority of shares in Moldovagas will have the
majority of seats on the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board of the company
and, therefore, will control its operations. Moldovagas will ensure that financial
performance of its subsidiaries steadily improves and that supply to paying customers
is not jeopardized due to a non-discriminatory cutoffs at the level of the country. The
Government expects that the commercialization of Moldovagas and the transit role
which Moldova plays vis-a-vis the Southern European markets will make
Moldovagas attractive to other strategic investors as well. In line with the previously
announced intention to withdraw from the gas sector, the Government will proceed
with sales of all of its remaining shares in Moldovagas through a competitive tender
open to domestic and foreign strategic investors. The Government will, hire a
consultant to complete a technical, financial, institutional, and market diagnostic
study of the gas industry and, by end- 1999 hire a reputable investment bank to assist
in privatization with the objective to complete the sale by mid-2000.
22. The Government recognizes the possibility that some shares of the electricity and
gas enterprises offered for sale may remain unsold after the first round of
privatization. In such case, the Government will swiftly reconfigure those packages of
shares and take other measures to facilitate their sale to a wider investment
community, and offer them for sale within two months after closing each respective
unsuccessful bidding.
23. Debt Restructuring. The Government has been preparing and implementing a
series of measures designed to create favorable conditions for privatization. An
Energy Sector Debt Restructuring Law has been approved by Parliament on April 1,
1999. The Ministry of Finance will draft an implementation plan of the Law before
May 15,1999. The Law calls for offsetting of payment arrears among energy
enterprises and the state and local budgets. The Law will relieve the electricity
enterprises subject to privatization of all arrears older than 60 days as of the date of
signing the sale-purchase agreement, with the exception of (i) accounts receivable
from the population for electricity consumption and (ii) the salary and Social Fund
arrears payable by the enterprises.
24. Electricity Market. Efficiency gains from privatization will be enhanced by
introduction of a competitive wholesale electricity market based on bilateral contracts



between - on the one hand -- electricity supply companies and - on the other hand --
electricity generating companies in or outside Moldova. Moldtranselectro (MTE) will
provide transmission and dispatch services and be responsible for balancing the
market and providing ancillary system services. It will not be involved in the trading
of electric energy nor in the ownership of generation companies. Development of
market rules and grid codes, specifying detailed rules for the operation of the market,
is under way and is expected to be completed by end of June 1999. The market
should commence its operation according to the new rules no later than January 1,
2000.
25. District Heating. The Government will take measures to improve and
commercialize operation of district heating companies - Termocomenergo,
Termocom and Rapdet - including their restructuring and possibly eventual
privatization. The Government will adopt before May 31, 1999 a time-bound action
plan with measures to restructure the district heating sector with the objective of
decentralizing district heating into municipally-based companies, which would either
be privately or municipally owned. Implementation of this action plan will be
regularly reviewed to ensure that financial and structural objectives are achieved.
Government will also sign management performance contracts with Terrnocom and
Termocomenergo before end-May. It will review performance under those contracts
before end-1999 and take corrective actions as needed.
Financial Performance and Management
26. In parallel with privatization and restructuring, the Government will continue to
implement measures to improve the performance of the electricity, gas and district
heating companies with particular emphasis on improving collections (especially
cash) and reducing the costs of operation, especially through reducing commercial
losses (unaccounted energy and uncollected bills). The Government will refrain from
interfering in the decisions to cut off supplies to non-paying consumers - including
budgetary organizations -- and to enforce payments through other legal actions,
including bankruptcy proceedings. Performance contracts with numerical targets to
improve collections and reduce commercial losses were signed with the management
of all electricity enterprises as of March 15, 1999, and will be closely monitored and
enforced. Furthermore, the Government will ensure that sufficient funds are provided
in state and local budgets in FY99 and FY00 budgets to cover energy consumption of
budget funded enterprises. The Government will ensure that these fumds are timely
disbursed and that consumption does not exceed the allocated budgets.
27. Energy sector enterprises which will remain in state ownership and whose
restructuring and privatization would commence at a later stage (electricity
transmission and dispatch, district heating) will need to improve their financial
management and accounting practices. International accounting standards should be
adopted by these enterprises by end of 1999, and their audits to international
standards will be conducted and published. Internal financial controls will also be



strengthened. The Government will closely monitor the financial performance of
these companies and accelerate their restructuring, privatization and financial
management reforms if performance improves less than expected. The Government
will ensure, in particular, that as result of the debt restructuring exercise MTE is not
saddled with undue debt, as it would require a major mark-up of MTE's tariffs, which
would be detrimental to the efficient functioning of the electricity market.
Legal Framework and Regulation
28. Gas and electricity laws adopted by Parliament were promulgated in December
1998. The laws codified the structure of these industries on the principles of open
access to the networks, competition in supply, and regulation of the monopolistic
segments (network services). The laws established an independent national energy
regulatory agency (ANRE). The Governmnent appointed all three Directors of the
agency. The Government will approve ANRE's budget and its founding acts before
May 31, 1999. The Government will ensure the continued independence of the
agency according to the gas and electricity laws.
29. ANRE will continue to exercise its regulatory responsibilities in promoting
competition and protecting consumers from monopoly practices while allowing an
adequate return to investment. It will adopt and apply tariff setting methodology
which reflects these principles and results in cost reflective tariffs, including - but not
limited to -- adjustments for inflation, exchange rate fluctuations, and bad debt.
ANRE will ensure that tariffs provide sufficient investment incentives as well as
incentives to reduce costs. ANRE, by September 30, 1999, will undertake a formal
review of all energy tariffs. ANRE will continuously monitor developments in the
energy sector and the economy at large and ensure that tariffs, in real terms, are
maintained at least at the level set by ANRE's Decision of December 15, 1998.
ANRE has already issued licenses for electricity generation, transmission,
distribution, regulated supply, and wholesale trading. Licenses for gas transmission,
distribution, and supply will be issued by May 31, 1999. As described above, the
licenses will be issued to the subsidiary companies, rather than to the holding
company, with the transmission subsidiary holding only the transmission license
(without engaging in the buying and selling of gas) and both the transmission and
distribution subsidiaries providing non-discriminatory access to their networks to
other gas suppliers.
Social Mitigation and Environmental Management
30. The potentially adverse social effects of cost recovery tariffs and enforcement of
payments on the poorest segments of the population will be mitigated by better
targeted social subsidies from state and local budgets. This will also improve the use
of scarce budgetary resources. The Government, by end-May 1999, will identify and
review the privileges and compensations for energy consumption with a view to



suspend or eliminate those which are not based on ability to pay and to bring them in
line with the funding ability of the state and local budgets. The Government will
identify sources of financing for all privileges and compensations which have not
been suspended or otherwise eliminated for FY99 and will ensure timely
disbursement of such funds from the budget.
31. The Government places a high priority on environmental management, particularly
in the energy sector. The energy privatization due diligence process will ensure that
the responsibilities for environmental mitigation measures are appropriately assigned
between the Government and the new owners.






C. Reform Program in Privatization
Attracting Strategic Investors and Accelerating Small Scale Privatization
32. The Government recognizes that continued progress in enterprise restructuring is
key to improving economic performance and living standards. We have come a long
way from our post-independence starting point, when all of the industrial sector was
state-controlled, and have made impressive gains through the initial mass voucher
privatization program and then the 1997/1998 privatization program (97/98PP). The
Government is now fully committed to consolidating these gains through the new
1999/2000 program (99/OOPP).
Small and Medium-Scale Privatization
33. The 97/98PP was particularly successful in promoting the sale of small and medium
enterprises. By end-1998, the Government had sold 538 leased premises (out of
2,000 identified) and 717 land plots were sold of which 346 were under privatized
enterprises (out of 1,900 identified) and 371 under private units started from scratch.
If by the end of August 1999, the pace of land sold under privatized enterprises has
not reached at least 200 additional plots of land since January 1st, the Government
will take appropriate action to meet the final target. Results were also good in the
privatization of many medium and large enterprises. By end-1998, the Government
sold residual shares in 356 JSCs of the 733 JSCs that had been offered for sale. This
increased the number of the JSCs with 100 percent private ownership to 421 (out of
1,149 JSCs), compared to just 77 enterprises at the end of the mass privatization
program.
34. Through the 99/OOPP we are committed to divesting the remaining state shares in
enterprise while supporting restructuring of the privatized enterprises and creating a
functioning land market for them. Future privatization efforts will support growth
and job creation through an accelerated sale of the small assets, leased premises and
land to local entrepreneurs. We will give priority to improving the corporate
governance structure to strengthen enterprise restructuring, by enabling a critical mass
of ownership concentration, especially by attracting direct investments, particularly of
strategic investors, into medium and large enterprises.
35. The Government will target selling at least 450 leased premises in 1999, by
improving the payment terms, using flexible pricing (e.g. by using the Dutch auction
mechanism in some cases), and continuing an overall aggressive sale policy through
auctions. We will auction the premises which their renters choose not buy. At
present, medium and large businesses have little incentive to buy land under their
business units, since they are allowed to pay land tax-which is 5 to 20 times lower
than land rent-on the leased premise. We will eliminate this distortion by requiring
medium and large business owners to either buy the land under their units or pay land



rent. We will also improve incentives for these businesses by lowering substantially
the normative price of land under privatized enterprises. The Government will target
selling at least 300 plots of land under privatized enterprises in 1999 and 300 under
private units that started from scratch. Also, new privatizations will include the land
under the enterprises to avoid successive sale transactions.
36. The Government intends to accelerate the sale of residual shares in the stock
exchange in all JSCs that participated in mass privatization. By the end of August
1999, if the residual shares will not be sold in at least 50% of the joint stock
companies offered, then we will use other methods, such as Dutch auction or incase
where JSCs have large debts, symbolic price.
Attracting Strategic Investors
37. The Government intends to sell the controlling block of shares in about 30 JSCs that
remain under its control and which may be attractive to strategic investors. To date,
we have sold the controlling block of shares in 15 such JSCs, including four JSCs-
Farmaco, Balteanca, Leather Chisinau and lonel-restructured by ARIA. To achieve
this objective, the new 99/OOPP will include enterprises attractive to strategic
enterprises, such as wine combinats-Cricova, Ialoveni, Cojusna, Aroma Chisinau,
Balti, Nisporeni, Briceni etc., Moldtelecom and Tobacco units, and all Cereale and
Fertilitate units that have not been privatized yet. To make these JSCs more attractive
to potential buyers, we will also introduce more flexible pricing in their sale.
38. The Government recognizes that an effective corporate governance structure is an
essential component of enterprise restructuring. But regional experience suggests that
the most effective models of corporate governance involve concentrated forms of
ownership.  Consequently, the corporate governance structure in Moldova is
relatively weak due to the wide dispersion of ownership caused by voucher
privatization, consolidation of which has been hampered by a small and illiquid stock
market and restrictions on the participation of private investment funds (PIFs) in
JSCs. The Government addressed this problem partially by reducing the restrictions
on PIFs' participation in JSCs, to enable them to build a critical mass of ownership
and exercise effective corporate governance. We will further address this by selling
our ownership shares in enterprises to its private owners, and by selling enterprises in
a block to strategic investors. In the same spirit, the Government will liquidate the
enterprises included in the privatization program which are not privatized but
continue to function and drain resources.
39. Privatizing the telecom sector is a key Government objective. We are determined to
create the regulatory agency for the telecommunications sector. We are preparing the
needed legislative changes and will send them to Parliament before June 30, 1999.
This regulatory agency will have an independent status and clear sources of funding.
At the same time we will hire an internationally recognized audit firm to provide a
financial audit. We will also hire an investment bank to prepare Moldetelecom for



privatization. Subject to market conditions and based on the advice of the investment
bank, we will offer for sale at least 51% of shares to strategic investors by December
1999. .
40. The Government senses the urgency to implement the 99/OOPP, since it also aims to
address the key problems that delayed the implementation of the 97/98PP. Some
major bottlenecks to privatization in 1998 included heavy indebtedness of many
enterprises, inflexibly high prices for state shares in JSCs and land, and lack of full
power and flexibility to the Government to approve individual privatization
transactions. The 99/OOPP addresses these by substantially lowering the normative
price of land under the private units, and encouraging privatization based on
commitment for investment and symbolic price, especially in the case of potentially
viable enterprises that are in financial distress. In addition, the Government will seek
to reduce the number of the individual privatization transactions to be and proved by
Parliament, and explore further the possibility of swapping enterprise debt to the
Government with shares.



Annex 5
Page 1 of8
ANNEX 5
MOLDOVA: Structural Adjustment Credit
Matrix of Policy Conditionality
(Actions in bold are core conditions)
A. MACROECONOMIC                                     Already Taken                      Prior to Board Presentation                        2nd Tranche
SUSTAINABILITY
Ensure the social and economic
sustainability offiscal adjustment
1. Lower expenditure commitments to       *   Revision of the 1998 budget, and      *   Agreement with the Association on a    *   Satisfactory implementation of the
conform to revenues, in order to reduce   adoption of a 1999 budget that adopts     satisfactory macroeconomic program1.        1999 budget and continuation of a
the buildup of arrears and ensure fiscal  revenue-increasing measures, and makes                                                satisfactory macroeconomic
stability and macroeconomic stabilization.  difficult but necessary reductions in                                               stabilization.
expenditures.
A condition of effectiveness is introduced requiring that the Borrower has in place a macroeconomic framework consistent with the objectives of the Govemment's program.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 8
OBJECTIVES                                                                                    ACTIONS
B. AGRICULTURAL                                    Already Taken                    Prior to Board Presentation                      2nd Tranche
REFORMS
Lay thefoundation for land reform,
agricultural growth and rural development
1.  Complete the restructuring of former   *   Preparation of a final version of the  *   Adoption of a Law, satisfactory to the   *   Satisfactory progress towards
collective and state farms into market-  Law for the expedited settlement of farm  Association, for the expedited settlement of  completion of National Farm
conforming, efficiency-motivated units  debt.                                   farm debt.                                Restructuring Program and titling of
agricultural land. The target number of
*   Improvement of the farm registration    *   Continued progress towards       farms to be privatized is 600, the target
process at the primaria level.         completion of National Farm               number of successor farms to be
*   Revised and improved exit and      Restructuring Program. The target         liquidated is 300, and the target number
registration procedures were adopted for  number of farms to be privatized is 400.  of titles to be issued by the Premarias is
the establishment of private fardns.                                             40% of agricultural land.
*   Continued progress in titling of
*   Legislation on bankruptcy procedures   agricultural land. The target of land to be
was adopted to expedite the process of land  titled is 8% of total agricultural land.
privatization.
*   Until end- 1998, 241,000 private
farms were actually registered. At the end
of 1998, 317,000 hectare or about 30% of
total agricultural land belonged to private
farming. Registration of about 6% of
agricultural land, about 230,000 parcels,
provided to the beneficiaries of the land
reform was completed under a unified
parcel registration system by the end of
1998. Procedures for administering
transactions of agricultural land were
introduced and the transfer fee was reduced
to 2% of the sales value, while five-year
moratorium on land sales and transfer
penalties were eliminated.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 8
2. Maintain liberal policies for        *   1999 budget is consistent with the  *   The taxation and subsidy policy will    *   The taxation and subsidy policy will
agriculture and agro-processing         recommendations of the Agricultural    remain based on the agreements made      continue to be based on the agreements
Taxation and Subsidy Study prepared in  with the World Bank based on the        made with the World Bank as established
1998.                                 Agricultural Taxation and Subsidy Study.   by the Agricultural Taxation Study..
*   No Government interference on the  *   Continued track record of no         *   Proper implementation, according
grain market in 1998.                  Government interference on the grain    to principles agreed with the
market.                                  Association of the Agricultural
*   Land tax is maintained as the primary                                       Support Fund (ASF) for private
forn of taxation of agriculture.       *   Progress, satisfactory to the        farmers. This will require that, (a) an
Association, on the implementation of the    audit of the Agricultural Support Fund be
*   In-kind tax collection is being    Agricultural Support Fund for private    provided to the Association for
replaced by cash payments.             farmers.                                 verification of proper implementation, (b)
evidence that the ASF was fully funded
*   No state guarantees or non-cash                                             by an identified revenue source in the
payments to agriculture are provided in the                                     FYI999 budget.
1999 budget.
* Initiation of a study on possibilities
*   Water (irrigation) subsidy was reduced                                      for regulatory and administrative
to 50% of the 1998 level.                                                       improvements to facilitate domestic and
foreign investments in agriculture and
*   Milk tax credits were cancelled.                                            agro-processing



Annex 5
Page 4 of 8
OB.I ECTIVES                                                                                   ACTIONS
C ENERGY REFORMS                                   Already Taken                     Prior to Board Presentation                       2nd Tranche
Lay the foundation for restoringfinancial
viability of energy providers, improving
efficiency of energy usage, and ensuring a
reliable energy supply to all paying
customers.
1. Develop an appropriate regulatory     *   Creation of an independent energy   *   Adopt ANRE's budget.                  *   ANRE will ensure that.tariffs, in real
framework and the institutional capacity   regulatory agency, ANRE.                                                         cost recovery terms, are maintained at
to implement it.                                                                 *   Approve ANRE's founding acts.         least at the level set by ANRE's Decision
*   Director of ANRE appointed.                                                   of December 15, 1998.
*   ANRE to have issued all licenses for
gas transmission, distribution and supply.   *   Adopt satisfactory electricity Market
Rules and tariff methodology.
* ANRE's authority as the sole
administrator of licenses in the electricity    *   ANRE's authority as the sole
and gas sectors, as established by        administrator of licenses in the
electricity and gas laws, will not be limited   electricity and gas sectors, as
by other laws and/or regulations.         established by electricity and gas laws,
will not be limited by other laws and/or
regulations.
2. Restore the energy sector's financial  *   Adoption by Parliament of the Energy  *   Adopt a resolution for implementing    *   Satisfactory implementation of the
equilibrium and reduce energy-related    Sector Debt Restructuring Plan.         the law on energy sector debt              implementation plan for the law on
budgetary arrears.                                                      .        restructuring.                             energy sector debt restructuring.
*   Increased energy tariffs to cover costs.
*   Government issued circular on April
21, 1999 aimed at improving collections.
*   Identify all privileges and subsidies  *   All privileges for energy consumption   *   Satisfactory progress in making
for energy consumption paid from the state  established by Government resolutions will  payments from the budget to the
and/or local budgets (including electricity,   be abolished.                      energy sector, the elimination of all
gas and district heating), indicating which                                       privileges and compensations concurrent
authority established them, when they were   *   The Government will draft legislation   with implementation of a fully financed
established, and what was the intended  and decrees as necessary to eliminate all    targeted subsidy scheme for the most
payment mechanism. Indicate which       remaining privileges relating to energy   vulnerable segments of the population.
subsidies and privileges are suspended  consumption and submit them to
under the FY99 budget.                  Parliament and/or the President for
adoption and promulgation.



Annex 5
Page 5 of 8
3. Impose domestic financial discipline,  Electricity
hard budget constraints, and improve the
quality of energy services for consumers    *   Adopted law on electricity which
by demonopolization and privatization of   demonopolizes the supply of electricity and                                *   Target of offer for sale all
the energy sector.                     introduces competition in the sector.                                          distribution companies by July 31, 1999.
*   Request for proposals from investment  *   Sign contract with the selected  *   Complete sales of distribution
bank, to assist in privatization of the power  investment bank to support the  companies for which satisfactory bids
companies, sent out.                  privatization of electricity companies.  were received; restructure privatization
packages and revise privatization
*   Performance contracts with numerical  *   Review progress achieved through  conditions for those distribution
targets to improve collections and reduce    performance contracts and implement  companies which had no bidders - if any
commercial losses were signed with the  changes as necessary to meet numerical  - and re-issue privatization tenders to a
management of all electricity enterprises as  targets on collection,           wider investment community.
of March 15, 1999.
* Issue tender documents for
*   Completed technical evaluation of                                          privatization of generation companies.
proposals from investment banks.                                               The target is to complete privatization of
generation companies by March 31,
2000.
Gas                                   *   Preparation of a time-bound action   *   Progress, satisfactory to the
plan for sale of Government's shares in  Association, in implementing the
*   Established Moldovagaz as ajoint  Moldovagas which would indude:           privatzbaton /dlvestiture plan for al
stock company and concluded negotiations   - description of the debt-for-equity swap  remaining State owned shares of
with RAO Gazprom on the sale of a     with, and bond issuance to, RAO GapWrom   Moldovagas
majority of shares through a debt equity  for outstanding debt of S90 miRion;
swap and bond issuance for $90 million  a sebedul for welig the mning
outstanding debt of Moldovagas to RAO  Gosedue fores  th remaicing
_aprm                                 Government shares to strategic investor(s);
- a description of Moldovagas'
*   A new gas law adopted in 1998.    organizational and management structure;
- hiring a consultant to complete technical,
financial, Institutional and business
diagnostic work to help prepare the
company for privatization;
- hiring an investment bank
Distrid Htatug                                                                 *   Prqgress, satisfactory to the
*   Government approval of the          Association, on Implementng (a) the
*   Restructuring plan for district heating   restructuring plan and signing of  Government's restructuring program
developed by the Govemment.           performance contracts with management.   of district heating and (b) the
performance contracts.



Annex 5
Page 6 of 8
OBJECTIVES                                                                                    AC'TIONS
D. ENTERPRISE                                      Already Taken                    Prior to Board Presentation                      2nd Tranche
PRIVATIZATION
Facilitate investment and restructuring by
strategic partners, and lay thefoundation
for growth in incomes and output in smaUl
and medium enterprises.
1. Lay the basis for growth in industry  *   The 1999-2000 Privatization Program    *   Enact the 1999-2000 Privatization  *   Satisfactory implementation of the
and services by privatizing small, medium   adopted by Govemment.               Program (PP) and publish it in Monitorul   1999-2000 Privatization Program, with
and large businesses.                                                           Oficial. The Program should include: (a)    agreed targets on the sale of small and
enterprises attractive to strategic investors   medium enterprises and land under
(including wine combinats such as Cricova   enterprises.
and laloveni, tobacco, (b) Moldtelecom
and the power companies); (c) all Cereala
and Fertilitata enterprises; (d) enabling
legislation to privatize based on symbolic
price; (e) and reduction satisfactory to the
Association of the list of enterprises for
which Parliament approval is required
before Government has the authority to
approve privatization.
.   Preparation of an implementation
plan for the 1999-2000 Privatization
Program which sets priorities for technical
assistance and is satisfactory to the
Association.
2. Privatize urban real estate and create  a   As of April 21, 1999, the Government  -   Continuation and acceleration of  *   The target for privatization of
an urban land market                    sold 613 leased premises out of a total of    privatization of small assets, leased  additional leased premises from January
2000 leased premises.                  premises and land under private units.    1, 1999 is 450. The target for
privatization of additional land under
a   As of April 21, 1999, the Government  .   Enacting the reduction of the      privatized units from January 1, 1999 is
sold 374 land plots under privatized   normative price of the land under private   300. The target for privatization of
enterprises out of a total of 1900 land plots  and privatized enterprises and publishing    additional units that started from scratch
under privatized enterprises.          it in Monitoral Oficial.                  from January 1, 1999 is 300.
.   As of April 21, 1999, the Government                                         *   If by end-August if the pace of
sold 605 land plots under private units that                                     additional land sold under privatized
started from scratch.                                                            enterprises from January 1, 1999 has not
reached 200, the government should take
appropriate measures to meet the final
target by the end of the year.



Annex 5
Page 7 of 8
3. Create the environment for accelerating   .   As of April 21, 1999, the Govemment  *   Encouragement of privatization based  .   The Govemment will offer for sale
the process of ownership change.        sold residual shares in 363 JSCs out of a  on commitment for investment and     the residual State shares in the stock
total of 1149 JSCs.                    symbolic price.                          exchange in all JSCs which participated
in mass privatization. The definition of
Increased flexibility for privatization    residual shares shall be agreed with the
by reducing the number of individual     Association. By the end of August, if the
privatizations which must be approved by   Govemment has not sold residual shares
Parliament.                             in at least 50% of the joint stock
companies offered, then it should use
other methods, such as Dutch auction or
in cases where JSC have large debts,
symbolic price.
As of April 21, 1999, the Government                                        .   The Govemment will offer for sale,
sold the controlling block of shares in 22                                      through intemational tenders, the
attractive enterprises of which 15 were sold                                    controlling block of shares (over 50% of
to foreign investors.                                                           stock) in 30 joint stock companies which
Govemment considers may be of interest
for strategic investors.
*   The Department of Privatization will   *   The Govemment will hire financial
send proposals of individual privatization   advisors for the sale of at least 2 wine
for 3 to 4 wineries to the Government.   combinants. Subject to market
conditions and based on advice of the
investment bank or financial advisor, the
Government will offer shares for sale.
*   After Mass Privatization, the State  .   Provided that technical assistance is    *   The Govemment will privatize the
held more than 50% of shares in 14 JSCs    available, the Government will either, (a)   ten remaining Cereale units of which the
out of the 31 Cereala units. Of these  announce tender for hiring of a financial    state still holds a majority share and
fourteen units, only two were sold by Aprl  advisor, or (b) hire directly a financial  Combinatul de produse cerealiere din
21, 1999.                              advisor for privatization of Cereala.    Chisinau where the state holds 45%.
*   Drafted Government resolution and  *   Government will draft legal          *   Passage of law and issuance of
law amendment(s) which would create an    documents, satisfactory to the Association,  regulations, expected by September 1 st,
independent regulatory agency of the   for creation of an independent regulatory   satisfactory to the Association, for
telecommunications industry.           agency for the telecommunications        establishing a telecommunications
industry.                                regulatory agency.
* Creation of a telecommunications
*   Moldtelecom was prepared and                                                regulatory agency satisfactory to the
offered for privatization with the help of an                                   Association. The agency should have, (a)



Annex 5
Page 8 of 8
EBRD financed investment bank, but the                                          Board of Directors (BODs) appointed,
Govemment could not come to agreement                                           and (b) approval of founding acts, (c)
with the only potential investor that                                           budget approved and funded in an
expressed an interest.                                                          amendment to the FY 1999 State budget,
and (d) inclusion in the draft FY2000
State budget.
.   Parliament approved sale of up to 51%   .   Hiring, by the Government, of an  .   The Government will hire an
of shares in Moldtelecom and Moldtelecom   internationally recognized audit firm to  investment bank to prepare
included in the 1999/2000 Privatization  provide a financial audit.             Moldtelecom for privatization and
Program.                                                                        achieve progress, satisfactory to the
Association, toward sale of at least
51% of shares of the company to
strategic investor(s).



IBRD 24285R3
28
C-~~~                          To Ne.wov                                                     O        D        V
Dnr s 2 rJTNmio                                                                           M O L D O V A
\gilev-          U  K  R A  I N  E
NBricen;                            ol'skiy /      Vinndsa                                    0    SELECTED CITIES
\    t ,*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
Soroc <\  X  <  <                                         RIVERS
48'-                                                                                                             RAILROADS
Fl                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
qxb~t XRibnita,^ --INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES
\71}                         <           <\$           /                    r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hi. mop  Pfas podue
\_t)   /       ~~~~~~by the Mop DeinUnit
To  The World Bbkn
\f      To Aheni                    \<        W     ,t~~~ ~ ~~~                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~rhip 3  _r -ccepti.c -f suc
o 0 25gi 5s 75                       To Boesth
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~py o, t . rr \of ,                      Ods
I   I  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ood Coostonto~~~~~~~~~~~Dasr'                                              h  W    B         ,.p
o       25                50                      fg- C      s              t=o Dogv 
TooiHd Lamat                              oZ.                                      . . f..-     -
\\\              <                  /   g    ) To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAUti          T.it  Knoy   < 
6   f                         =} t              K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~cLestn  Bede U          INE
V 1i ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRI 1997000,00
<       3ulconesti  _<  v                                 >$;       0    00 ttit illltlt: 0000 0 t0000nestrovs
-462o                                                        ng               U  K        AI 
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI KILMEER77



