Page  1
December 12, 2001
His Excellency
Mihail Manoli
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Re:
Dutch Grant for Cofinancing of  Structural  Adjustment 
Credit (Credit No. 3256 MD)
Grant Number TF050281                                                                  
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA) (hereinafter 
collectively referred to as the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as 
administrator of grant funds provided by the Netherlands, to make a grant in an amount 
of ten million U.S. Dollars (U.S. $10,000,000) not exceeding eleven million four 
hundred thirty five thousand two hundred sixty two Euro (EUR 11,435,262) present 
equivalent of twenty five million two hundred thousand Netherlands Guilders (NLG 
25,200,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Moldova (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, 
that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Carlos Elbirt
Authorized Representative
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ Mihail Manoli
Minister of Finance
Date:
December 13, 2001
ANNEX TO LETTER AGREEMENT
DATED DECEMBER 12, 2001
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to provide support to the following activity (the 
Activity):
Page  2
Provision to the Recipient of balance of payments assistance in support of the 
Program described in the Moldova Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit No. 3256 MD) 
(hereinafter SAC).
2.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
2.1.
The Recipient shall, prior to furnishing to the Bank the request for withdrawal 
of the Grant amount, open and thereafter maintain in its central bank a deposit 
account (the Grant Account) in United States Dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  The Bank shall thereupon and following satisfaction of the 
requirement set forth in paragraph 2.4 below, transfer the entire Grant amount to the 
Grant Account.
2.2.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.1, 2.3, and 2.4 of this Section, the 
Recipient shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Grant deposited in the Grant 
Account in support of the Activity.
2.3.
The Recipient shall maintain records and accounts adequate to identify the Grant 
amounts disbursed on account of balance of payments assistance referred to in 
paragraph 1.1 of this Annex. 
2.4.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no request by the Recipient for 
transfer of the Grant amount in the Grant Account shall be made: (a) unless the 
supplement to the SAC has been released (Credit No. 3256-1 MD) in accordance with the 
time schedule specified by the Netherlands; and (b) later than December 31, 2001, or 
such later date as the Bank shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date).
3.
Implementation Generally
3.1.
The Recipient undertakes to: (a) utilize the amount of the Grant for purposes of 
the balance of payments assistance referred to in paragraph 1.1 of this Annex, 
provided, however, that the amount so utilized shall not be used to finance 
expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of  Attachment I to this Annex. If 
the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Grant shall have 
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Grant Account an amount equal 
to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such 
amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be canceled.
4.
Audit
4.1.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
have the Grant Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months from the end of each of the Recipient’s fiscal years, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Grant Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Attachment I
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of paragraph 3.3 of this Letter Agreement, the proceeds of the 
Grant shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Recipient; provided, however, that if the currency of the 
Recipient is also that of another country from the territory of which goods or 
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall 
not be excluded;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another loan or credit;
Page  3
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Recipient:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to 
which the Recipient is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or 
of a beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
Page  4
