Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3256-1-MD  
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending  
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Dated November 21, 2001 
 
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3256-1-MD  
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING  
 DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 21, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF 
MOLDOVA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Structural Adjustment Credit) Credit Number 3256-
MD, dated July 6, 1999 (the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of 
providing support during the execution of the Borrower’s program designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (the Program); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance in the support of the Program due to the damage caused by a severe ice storm 
which struck the Borrower’s territory in November, 2000, by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such supplemental assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Amending Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I  
 
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement 
 
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows: 
 
The following new paragraphs are added, reading as follows: 
 
(a) 
deleting the word “and” at the end of paragraph (c); 
 
(b) 
substituting the period at the end of paragraph (d) by a semicolon 
and adding the word “and” after such semicolon; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(c)  
adding the following new paragraph: 
 
(e) 
‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement 
Amending the Development Credit Agreement 
(Structural Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower 
and the Association, dated July 6, 1999. 
 
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty three million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 33,600,000) (the Credit), which 
includes: (a) an original amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty nine 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 29,600,000); and 
(b) a supplemental amount in various currencies equivalent to four million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000) (the Supplemental Financing).” 
 
Section 1.03. Paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.” 
 
Section 1.04. The following paragraph (e) is added to Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
equivalent of SDR 29,600,000,  unless this Amending Agreement has become effective 
in accordance with Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.05. Section 2.03 of the Development credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date.” 
 
Section 1.06. the following sentence is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b)(i) of 
the Development Credit Agreement: 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
“;provided, however, that any commitment charge in the Supplemental Financing 
shall accrue from a date sixty days (60) after the date of the Amending Agreement;”. 
 
ARTICLE II  
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that 
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action. 
 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, 
on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless 
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this Amending 
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not 
been executed. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
By /s/ Ceslav Ciobanu 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Roger Grawe 
Authorized Representative 
 
