Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                       F!LE 
Report No. 2854-BU
BURUNDI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
June 2, 1980
Urban Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$1.00               FBu 89
US$0.0112             FBu 1
FBu 1 million         US$11,236
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (metric system)
1 meter (m)       2             =   39.37 inches (in) or 3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m )                 10.9 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)                -   0.62 mil s (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                  -   10,000 m  or 2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                 =   2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton                    -   1,000 kgs or 2,204 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADF          -  African Development Fund
AfDB         -  African Development Bank
BADEA        -  Banque Arabe pour le Développement Economique en Afrique
(Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa)
BNDE         -  Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
BRB          -  Banque de la République du Burundi (Central Bank)
CAMOFI       -  Caisse Centrale de Mobilisation et de Financement
(National Bank for Savings and Investment)
IDA          -  International Development Association
MTPEL        - Ministère des Travaux Publics, de l'Equipement et du
Logement
ONL          -  Office National du Logement (National Housing Office)
PPF          -  Project Preparation Facility
Regideso    -  ("Re'gie des Eaux") National water and electricity authority
SIP         -  Société Immobilière Publique (Public Housing Corporation)
SMIG         -  salaire minimum interprofessionnel garanti (minimum wage)
TSD          -  Technical Services Department
UNCDF        -  United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNCHS        -  United Nations Center for Human Settlements
UNDP         -  United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA        -  United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF       -  United Nations Children's Fund
UNIDO        -  United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UPRONA       -  Union pour le Progrès National (Union for National Progress)
WHO          -  World Health Organization
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   SECTORAL CONTEXT ..............................................           1
A.   The Urban Setting .         .i................. ..........           1
B.   Bujumbura:  Housing, Employment and Income             .........    2
C.   Urban Institutions .......... .  ................................   6
D.    Government Policies and Programs ...................               7
II.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................................          9
A.   The Project ........................................                9
B.   Detailed Features ...................       ................       il
III.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS .....             ..........   18
A.   Cost Estimates  .. ................ ..... .............. .         18
B.   Financing Plan .................................                   19
C.   Procurement ....................           ....................    21
D.   Disbursement .... .... ..  .................... . . . .... ...... ..23
IV.   MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ...........................                25
A.   Executing Agencies and Project Management ........   o.            25
B.   Project Implementation               .............................  28
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..................       ...      . o ...............  33
A.    Introduction .......................................              33
B.   Cost Recovery .......          ...............................     33
C.   Affordability .... ...................................             36
D.   Replicability ......................................               39
VI.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ........ ..... . ....                                  40
A.   General Justification and Project Benefits              .          40
B.  Rate of Return Calculations               .       ..41
C.   Distribution of Benefits and Poverty Impacts                       42
D.   Constraints, Limitations, and Risks                                43
VII.    SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND CREDIT CONDITIONS ........               44
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Burundi in November-December 1979. The mission consisted of Mr. O.
Grimes and Ms. S. Snell (IDA), and Messrs. F. Jakob, D. Barthelemy, M. Baron,
I. Nahmias, and E. Mbi (consultants). Additional field work was undertaken in
February 1980. The report was prepared by 0. Grimes, F. Jakob, and S. Snell.
This document hu à restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit offcial dulies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Supporting Tables and Charts
Table 1:  Detailed Cost Estimates:  Neighborhood Upgrading
Table 2:  Detailed Cost Estimates:  Kwijabe Sites and Services
Table 3:  Detailed Cost Estimates:  Artisan Promotion Program
Table 4:  Detailed Cost Estimates:  New School Construction
Table 5:  Detailed Cost Estimates:  Municipal Services
Table 6: Project Cash Flow
Table 7: Cash Flow, Municipality of Bujumbura
Chart 1:  Structure of the Ninistry of Public Works, Equipment,
and Housing, 1980
Chart 2: Implementation Schedule
Annex 2: Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
Map 14704: Project Locations
Map 14845: Kwijabe Serviced Plots
Map 14844: Upgrading in Cibitoke, Kamenge, Kinama, and
Ngagara Neighborhoods



I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. The Urban Setting
Urban Sector Evolution and Economic Role
1.01      Burundi is, after its neighbor Rwanda, the most densely populated
country in Africa; it is also one of the poorest, with a per capita income in
1978 of $140. About 95% of its four million residents live in rural family
enclaves (rugos). Most of Burundi's 200,000 urban residents live in the
capital city, Bujumbura (140,000) and in three other towns, Gitega (8,000),
Rumonge (5,000) and Ngozi (4,000). These towns grew rapidly from a small base
in the 1960s but growth rates appear to have leveled off since then. Current
urban growth rates are estimated at 5%, of which about half is due to migra-
tion. This is more than double the overall average national growth rate of
2.2%.
1.02      At the present time, due to the moderate size and growth rates of
Burundi's urban areas and the availability of raw land, urban development is
occurring at a manageable scale. However, Bujumbura's road, drainage and water
infrastructure has fallen into disrepair and settlement areas have begun to
spill over onto unserviced and unplanned land. The time is right to establish
mechanisms to deal with urban growth as it occurs, particularly given the
urban sector's and Bujumbura's role as a primary driving force in economic
growth.
1.03      While the rural-based primary sector produces three-quarters of
GDP and coffee, cotton and tea exports account for 80% to 90% of foreign
exchange earnings, primary sector production has grown on average at ouly 1.6%
per annum gince 1970. High rural population densities--on average around 160
persons/km and as high as 250 in some areas--and low agricultural produc-
tivity set a limit on the rural sector's absorptive capacity. In contrast,
urban-based domestic production in the secondary and tertiary sectors doubled
between 1970 and 1977, and value added per capita is about eight times higher
in the urban than in the rural sector.
1.04      In the short run, the urban economy will continue to generate most
of the growth in domestic output, productivity and employment. Even with
increases in agricultural productivity, the population of cities and towns
can be expected to double in 15 years. If government successfully implements
*         its recently adopted policy to decentralize administration away from the
capital city, the smaller towns could grow proportionately faster and play
a larger role. As yet, however, their problems are of relatively minor
-         importance.



- 2 -
B. Bulumbura: Housing, Employment, and Income
HousinR Conditions
1.05      Before independence erected trade barriers between Belgium's ex-
colonies, Bujumbura was the commercial center of a region encompassing Rwanda
and eastern Zaire. Its port still handles most of the country's trade, which
passes over Lake Tanganyika to the railhead at Kigoma in western Tanzania
leading to Dar es Salaam. From a crossroads in 1925, the town had grown by
1965 to cover an area of about 1,700 ha stretching north and south along Lake
Tanganyika and east across a narrow plain to steeply rising hills. In recent
years the city has begun spilling over the present administrative limits,
particularly to the south where the spontaneous settlement of Musaga has
reached a population of 8,500, and into scattered clusters on the eastern
hillsides numbering perhaps 5,000 persons. A new sketch plan prepared in 1979
by the urban planning division of the Public Works Ministry foresees a
population of 200,000 by about 1987 and of 385,000 by the year 2000. By the
end of the project period, 1984, the population of Bujumbura is expected to
have reached about 185,000 from the present 140,000.
1.06      The city has retained a colonial structure with shops and the
main marketplace in a very low density city center. Higher densities (up to
340 persons/ha in some areas) and low quality services characterize the other
settlements of self-built unregulated housing constructed on public land.
Three of these neighborhoods, Buyenzi, Bwiza and Nyakabiga, are located
near the downtown area.  Beyond the Ntahangwa River is a more recently settled
group of neighborhoods less well connected to economic activity: Cibitoke,
Kamenge, and Kinama (see Map 14704). Together these six neighborhoods house
about 105,000 persons, or 75% of the city's population and virtually all of
its poor. Another 10% live in the middle-income neighborhood of Ngagara,
where services and housing densities fall between the extremes of the richer
and poorer sections of the city. The proposed sketch plan, now under con-
sideration by Government, recommends upgrading and expanding the northern
neighborhoods to include secondary centers serving commercial and educational/
cultural functions as well as development of the land along the road currently
connecting these neighborhoods to the central area of the city.
1.07      Almost half the city's population is not Barundi.  About 20% of
the city's residents are Zairean, 15% Rwandese, about 4% are European or
Asian, and 5% are of other African nationalities, principally Senegalese,
Tanzanian and Ugandan. However, the poor neighborhoods show no consistent
pattern of indentification with nationality or origin.  In no neighborhood is
the proportion of Barundi lower than a third or that of non-Barundi higher
than 45%.
1.08      Between 1970 and 1978 growth in the number of houses constructed
has by and large kept pace with population growth, both in the aggregate
and within each of the main categories of housing. Private individuals



produced all of the non-permanent and semi-permanent housing built during
this period, which constituted 39% and 52% of new housing respectively.
Private investors or home-builders hire day laborers and skilled workmen
(tâcherons), and there has been little self-help housing construction except
at the lower levels of income for buildings of non-permanent materials.
1.09      Future demand for new low- and middle-income housing may be esti-
mated at roughly 6,700 units to accommodate 40,000 persons over the 1978-84
period. About 12,000 of these could be absorbed by construction of an addi-
tional 2,100 houses in the four northern neighborhoods of Cibitoke, Kamenge,
Kinama and Ngagara over the six-year period. The remaining 4,600 units would
require development of new sites on vacant land. On the basis of its perform-
ance over the 1970-78 period when about 680 houses a year were constructed in
this sector of the market, the proven capacity of the low-cost housing sector
is expected to be sufficient to respond to future demand, provided serviced
land is made available.
Land, Infrastructure and Services
1.10      A 1961 decree brought into the public domain all vacant, unimproved
lands as well as those on which families lived under traditional or customary
rights. However, the procedures by which customary rights could be
transformed into full title were not spelled out. State lands in high-income
residential neighborhoods are for the most part registered and leased at fixed
rents well below market value until they are improved, when they may be
purchased. In other districts traditional occupation rights generally afford
security of tenure, although of a somewhat less certain nature in a few
spontaneous settlements in outlying districts such as Musaga than in settled
low-income neighborhoods such as Cibitoke and Kinama.
1.11      Street and drainage networks in the upgrading neighborhoods are
laid out in regular grids, and water and electricity networks are in place.
However, poor maintenance of all infrastructure except main roads has led
to serious deterioration. Existing human waste disposal methods (pit
latrines) are adequate and densities by and large do not yet justify water-
borne sewerage. Most public primary schools are clustered in two neighbor-
hoods, Ngagara and Buyenzi, so that about a third of low-income pupils must
walk more than 1 km to school. The three existing public health centers are
reasonably accessible--within 2 1/2 - 3 km of city residents--but are quite
often understaffed.
1.12      Housing quality and access to standpipes, electricity and schools
varies considerably across neighborhoods. In Ngagara, most houses have
running water and indoor latrines. In the poorer but closer-in neighborhoods
of Buyenzi, Bwiza and Nyakabiga, most latrines are in the courtyards and



- 4 -
construction materials are semi-permanent. Walking distance from standpipes
varies from 75m on average in Bwiza to 200m in Cibitoke. In general, the more
recently established and more distant northern neighborhoods are the worst
off; they are also the poorest.
1.13      The most critical needs are for improvement in environmental sanita-
tion--garbage collection, drainage and water supply--and in mechanisms to
assure adequate infrastructure maintenance. Personnel, equipment and organiza-
tion for garbage collection are inadequate for a regular pickup system to
achieve acceptable sanitary conditions. Most drainage canals are blocked.
Water standpipes are frequently out of service, difficult to use because of
eroded foundations and hazardous to health because of standing water.
Structure of Employment, Income, and Poverty
1.14      About 80% of Burundi's urban sector employment and 62% of employees
are located in Bujumbura. The formal sector, which employs about 43% of the
1978 labor force of 62,000, is dominated by government. However, agricultural
employment remains significant, accounting for 13% of the total (Table I.1).
Overall, industry plays a relatively small role (8% of the total) but commerce
is important, especially in the informal sector.
1.15      The informal sector, which accounts for about 57% of 1978 employment,
is made up of small unregistered businesses with a few employees and self-
employed persons. Roughly a quarter of this sector offers retail services,
about 20% are in agriculture, and about 13% are individual artisans with
building and construction skills (carpentry, masonry, brickmaking, metalwork-
ing) or in other trades (mechanics, tailoring, milling). There is also a
large group of unskilled laborers. According to Labor Ministry statistics,
however, the supply of office, transport, mechanical, technical and domestic
workers barely meets half the demand.
1.16      As with housing quality, there is a good deal of variation in
income levels among the city's low-income neighborhoods. While on average
about 65% of families in these neighborhoods fall below the urban poverty
threshold, the share is closer to 80% in Kinama, at about the average in
Cibitoke, Kamenge and Buyenzi, and around 30%-40% for the less poor neighbor-
hoods of Bwiza and Nyakabiga. Food and clothing absorb up to 65% to 80% of
poor families' incomes, despite the fact that about half of their food needs
are met by homegrown produce. Energy, soap and other household supplies,
and health and education account for much of the remainder. Actual budget
ourlays for housing are on average low because 40%-90% of households in these
neighborhoods occupy their own homes and pay no rent. Comparison of results
of the 1978 household survey with results of a 1964 survey suggest that the
share of current outlays on housing repairs and clothing has decreased in
response to a seven-fold increase in the cost of household energy. The share
of transport expenditures also appears to be low, in part because distances
are not great but also because the cost of regular bus travel, to and from
work for example, would pose a serious burden on the budgets of poor families.



- 5 -
Table I.1   Bujumbura: Employment by Sector, 1978
Formal
Sector      Sector                   Informal Sector
Lanorers
Commerce,  Agricul-            and un-    Subtotal
Non-regi-  tural               skilled    Informal
stered     workers  Artisans workers    Sector        Total
Agriculture,
Mining and Fishing    1,398                  6,774                          6,774     8,172
Manufacturing          2,037                                                          2,037
Building and                                                 /a
construction      2,208                           2,338               2,338      4,546
Transport, commu-
nications, water
and electricity          763                                                            763
Restaurants & Leisure   113                                                             113
/b
Commerce & services   3,194    12,615                  4,676              17,291    20,485
Finance & Insurance      396                                                            396
Government            10,327                                                         10,327
National Defense
and Security         5,095                                                          5,095
Religious & Other        943                                      9,322      9,322   10,265
Total                 26,474    12,615        6,774    7,014      9,322    35,725   62,199
/a Carpenters, masons, brickmakers, metalworkers
/b Half of these are shopkeepers, the other half tailors, mechanics and millers.
Source: Appraisal mission estimates based on the following sources:
Formal sector: Revue de Statistiques du Travail: La Situation de
l'emploi dans le secteur structuré, 1978. Planning Ministry and
Labor Ministry, February 1979, Annex II-7.
Informal sector: Bulletin Statistique: Enquete auprès des ménages de
Bujumbura 1978-79. Planning Ministry, August 1979, Table 4.
Feasibility study reports: April 1979, Chapter 4; July 1979, Vol. I, p. 19.



- 6 -
1.17      Cultivation of crops for own consumption and for sale is a major
economic activity, especially in the northern neighborhoods: 35% of heads
of households in Kinama and 17-19% in three other neighborhoods cite agricul-
ture as their principal occupation. This is reflected in the low level of
urban development--only 58% of the city's land is developed for housing and
about a third of its area is regularly cultivated agricultural land, including
on-plot gardens--and the fact that a quarter of heads of household have at
least two major occupations. In the closer-in neighborhoods where average
incomes are higher, a quarter to a third of head8 of household are civil
servants, around 20% work in retail and service trades, and 10% to 15% are
artisans. In the poorer neighborhoods artisans are much more important
(25-30%) and civil servants and retail and services much less. Thus 50-70% of
households in the latter neighborhoods earn income mainly from informal sector
activities (artisan work and agriculture), compared to a quarter to a third in
the less poor neighborhoods.
1.18      Current poverty estimates indicate that about 55% of Bujumbura's
families and 65% in low-income neighborhoods have incomes below the urban
poverty income level, estimated at $174 (FBu 15,500) per month in 1979 for an
average household of 6.4 persons. The proportion of urban poor is likely to
have increased in recent years due to the effects of inflation. Real incomes
of civil servants appear to have decreased about 10% since 1976; the annual
rate of increase in the cost of living for this group rose from 6.8% in 1977
to 23.4% in 1978 and 26.9% in 1979. The minimum wage (SMIG), which applies to
unskilled laborers in the public and private sectors, was increased in
November 1979 from FBu 80 to FBu 110 per day in Bujumbura, or about $370 for a
300-day workyear.
C. Urban Institutions
1.19      The Ministry of Public Works, Equipment and Housing (MTPEL) is
in charge of carrying out the Government's housing policy and provides overall
guidance on urban and regional development strategies. In order to strengthen
its urban project preparation capability, the Ministry's technical staff in
1980 was grouped into a Directorate General of Coordination of Infrastructure,
with separate departments for regional development and housing and urban
planning. In addition, responsibility for construction of high-standard
housing chiefly for civil servants has been given to the National Housing
Office (Office National du Logement, ONL), and more recently to a newly
created Public Housing Corporation (Société Immobilière Publique, SIP).
Public agencies involved in housing finance are the National Bank for Savings
and Investment (Caisse Centrale de Mobilisation et de Financement, CAMOFI) and
the National Bank for Economic Development (BNDE). CAMOFI was created in 1977
and restructured in 1979 to transform short-term deposits into medium- and
long-term loans for housing finance, primarily to SIP. BNDE has been a major
source of financing for private homebuilders and developers of high-standard
housing as well as for private industrial, agricultural and tourism investment,



and is now the executing agency for an IDA-assisted project to promote
industrial investment. Registry of land titles, even within Bujumbura, is
handled by the Land Title Office within the Ministry of Agriculture.
1.20      The three other most important urban institutions are the National
Urban Commission, the Municipality (Commune) of Bujumbura, and the national
water and electricity authority, Regideso. The National Urban Commission's
24 members represent all ministries with an interest in urban development,
including the Land Title Office, plus the Municipality and the Chamber of
Commerce representing the private sector. It is convened several times a year
by the Minister of Public Works to review projects under preparation and
provide broad policy guidance on the direction of urban growth and urban
investment priorities. Regideso plans, builds, and maintains water, sewer,
electricity, and street lighting networks in major cities and towns. Municipal
administration in Bujumbura is headed by the Mayor, who is appointed by the
President of the Republic and is responsible to the Minister of the Interior
through the provincial governor. The Municipality's major responsibilities
are security, garbage collection, and maintenance of markets, secondary roads
and drainage ditches (see also paras 1.29 - 1.30).
D. Government Policies and Programs
1.21      Rousing and Urban Development.  Government began focusing attention
on housing and urban development in the mid-1970s and has been able to estab-
lish a general policy framework and set up key institutions to anticipate and
plan for urban growth in advance of a crisis situation. Official housing
policy calls for reducing subsidization of civil servant housing, increasing
the supply of planned and serviced land, and improving existing neighborhoods.
1.22      As a result of the Government's efforts, a number of key institu-
tions and programs were initiated or strengthened in the late 1970s. Aside
from the reorganization of the Public Works Ministry's housing functions
mentioned in para. 1.19, SIP and CAMOFI have been assisted by advisors fi-
nanced out of a $1.5 million IDA technical assistance credit. In 1978 a
mission of urban planners funded through French bilateral aid prepared a
planning framework for Bujumbura, which culminated in the presentation of a
new sketch plan for the city. A subsequent mission of French landscape design
specialists in early 1979 resulted in a decree setting aside a key tract along
the city's eastern foothills as a reserve for future urban expansion. In
addition, two French regional planning advisers have recently launched a
two-year program to carry out nationwide urban and regional mapping and
planning exercises.
1.23      Major extensions to Bujumbura's water, drainage, sewerage and
electricity networks being undertaken by Regideso have been supported by
several bilateral and multilateral agencies. A 1966 IDA credit supported
major improvements to the Bujumbura water system. More recently, a $2.6-
million extension of medium and low tension electricity networks now nearing



- 8 -
completion has been financed through German assistance. The African Develop-
ment Fund is supporting the preparation of a water master plan as well as
extension and improvement of the water standpipe network. A $10.2-million
project jointly financed by AfDB, BADEA and the Government will permit
construction and renovation of primary sevage collectors and extension of
secondary networks plus priority drainage works in the capital (see also para
2.07). Following preparation by a UNDP/UNCHS team in 1979, UNCDF has approved
a $1.9-million grant to upgrade Musaga, an unplanned low-income settlement
located at Bujumbura's southern limits.
1.24      Government has also acted to deal with the issues of most immediate
concern in Bujumbura during this period: shortages of imported construction
materials, notably cement; and the rising cost of construction, intensified
both by these shortages and by general inflationary trends following a sharp
increase in coffee receipts. All types of construction vork throughout the
country were slowed down by these factors. New starts in higher income housing
in Bujumbura came to a virtual standstill in 1978 under the additional con-
straint of a rent control ceiling for high-standard housing instituted in July
1977. In response to these problems, the Government successfully promoted
importation of cement from Zambia to offset a reduction in supplies from
Tanzania. A proposal to raise rental ceilings in public housing and remove
them in the private sector is currently under consideration by the Governnent.
1.25      To attack the underlying causes of high construction costs, the
Government invited UNIDO and the Bank to identify projects to increase the
capacity of the domestic construction industry. A Bank project that would
encourage local production of lime, bricks, and roofing tiles is nov under
preparation.
1.26      A reduction in the cost of civil servant housing is a major objec-
tive for SIP, and in fact cost reductions of 10% were realized during pre-
paration of SIP's first venture (300 units for top-level civil servants at
Mutanga), primarily by reducing the use of cement and by grouping dwellings
into small complexes. However, any further substantial decrease in costs can.
only come from additional reductions in the use of imported materials, which
will necessitate a reconsideration of the standards to which middle- and
high-level civil servants are accustomed. At present standards, even with a
housing allowance equivalent to 25% of base salary, plus an additional commit-
ment from the civil servant of 25% of salary required by government's housing
finance program for its employees, it is still necessary to subsidize 20%
of house construction costs and all interest charges on new house loans (8.5%
at 15 years), in addition to infrastructure and utility connection costs.
This financing arrangement, which went into effect in 1979, is an improvement
over the previous total subsidy of government housing and has permitted SIP to
get its construction program underway. However, even these subsidy levels
would not permit the overall demand for high - and middle - income housing to
be met at prevailing construction standards.
1.27      The Government has begun to address this problem more systemati-
cally. Financed under an ongoing IDA technical assistance credit (No. 917-BU),
a study of urban housing policies, including rent controls, housing subsidies,
and lending terms, would be undertaken. Results of the study are expected to
be available by March 31, 1981, and the Government in consultation with the
Bank would prepare an Action Plan by September 30, 1981.



1.28      Employment policy.  The late 1970s also saw new policy directives
affecting urban employment. The major constraints to growth of employment and
productivity have been a lack of access to financing by smaller firms and
entrepreneurs, and an imbalance between manpower needs and supply reflected in
surpluses in unskilled and shortages in skilled categories. A $15-million IDA
credit to expand technical training institutions was approved by the Executive
Directors in January 1980, and a $3.4-million credit to BNDE approved in 1977
was designed in part to provide financing to small and medium-sized enterprises.
A new investment code promulgated in 1979 gives important property and income
tax and import duty exemptions to firms in priority sectors creating at least
25 permanent jobs. However, to date Government and donor programs to stimulate
local production have not reached very small entrepreneurs or individual
artisans who constitute the bulk of the informal sector.
1.29      Municipal administration and finance.  Having historically held
little power, municipalities (communes) in Burundi are insufficiently prepared
to respond to 1979 legislation which decentralized selected administrative
functions, primarily internal security, to the communes. In the past, a large
part of public investment in buildings and infrastructure has occurred outside
municipal control without adequate coordination and exchange of information.
IJrban development is planned by the Public Works Ministry and central govern-
ment officials appoint all local authorities (see also paras 1.19, 1.20).
1.30      The main specific constraint facing the Bujumbura municipality is
inadequate operating capacity for the functions now assigned to it. The
municipality's existing staff numbers about 350; as with all Government
agencies, recruitment of qualified staff is hampered by low salary levels
compared with the private sector. Market taxes, collected daily, constitute
40-50% of municipal revenues, most of the rest coming from property and
commercial taxes and fees. The most striking fact about these revenues is
their low absolute level -- an estimated $450,000 in 1979 - and the continu-
ing budget surpluses amounting to a quarter of revenues in 1977 and 1978. The
main reasons for the surpluses, which are placed in a frozen government
savings account, is the city's inability to increase its level of operations
rapidly enough to spend the resources it takes in.
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. The Project
Objectives
2.01      The primary objective of the project is to make a modest but real
improvement in the living conditions of the urban poor by (a) redressing
the most urgent deficiencies in existing neighborhoods, and (b) laying a
foundation for more efficient future growth. In a mainly rural country
with few trained civil servants and viable institutions, this can best



- 10 -
be done if close attention is paid to the organization and management of
urban programa and to maintenance and improvement of facilities once they are
built.
2.02      More specifically, a series of upgrading improvements in infra-
structure and community facilities predominantly in the most deprived areas
vould be carried out as a first step toward bringing all neighborhoods up to
the same service standard. To demonstrate the feasibility of low-cost housing
at affordable standards, a site near the city center would be provided with
essential services and loans for housebuilding made available. Measures to
assist artisans would make up the first phase of a medium-term program of
assistance to be carried on by the same agencies and staff.
2.03      Taken together, these measures are expected to improve the access
of low-income families to urban services in an institutional as well as a
spatial sense. From an institutional standpoint the main bottleneck has been
the lack of well-organized housing services at the local level. Informal,
local sources of information about how to obtain building materials and
skilled labor have generally worked well in Bujumbura, but need to be supple-
mented by more organized ways of providing knowledge of construction methods
and especially credit. Institutions would be established and strengthened
through the project to directly address these needs. Spatially, Bujumbura has
grown at a low density (118 persons/ha on average) with a good deal of open
space between neighborhoods. The project is expected to improve work-residence
linkages by helping to fill in this open space, and in the process would raise
the average city residential density by up to 10 percent.
Components
2.04      To achieve the above objectives, the project would include:
Base Cost       Z of
US$ million   Base Cost
(a)  Neighborhood UpRrading:  provision of                  2.5          20
basic infrastructure to 6 low-income
neighborhoods affecting about 16,700
households; minor works in a seventh
neighborhood
(b)  Serviced Plots:  preparation of                       0.8             7
about 780 sites and services plots
with unpaved roads, storm drainage,
public water and electricity
(c)  Building Loans for house construction                 2.3           19
and improvement, and their administration
at the local level



- il -
Base Cost       % of
US$ million   Base Cost
(d)  Promotion of Artisans through neighborhood            0.6             5
training units and credit
(e)  Community Facilities:  construction and                1.5           12
equipping of 3 primary schools, two with
workshop units for post-primary technical
education; renovation of 11 existing
schools
(f)  Improvement of Municipal Services:                     1.6           13
provision of vehicles and equipment for
maintenance of streets and drains,
maintenance of public buildings, and
garbage collection; establishment of
a municipal Collection Bureau
(g)  Proiect Management and Technical Assistance:           2.5           20
provision of equipment and technical
assistance to the Project Unit; financing
of consultants' services for (i) Housing
Bureau; (ii) artisan training program; and
(iii) municipal services
(h)  Design, Supervision, and Studies:                      0.5             4
financing of (i) detailed designs and
engineering and (ii) feasibility study
Total             12.3           100
B. Detailed Features
Neighborhood Upgrading
2.05      This component would upgrade essential services in three poor
neighborhoods at the city's northern periphery (Cibitoke, Kamenge, and Kinama)
and three more centrally located areas (Buyenzi, Bwiza, and Nyakabiga). Civil
works in a seventh, largely middle income neighborhood (Ngagara) would consist
of minor additions to the public lighting network that will improve communica-
tion with adjacent neighborhoods (see Map 14704). Selection of these neighbor-
hoods was made after analysis of population characteristics, location in
relation to jobs and primary infrastructure, and especially income levels.
Inclusion of Ngagara would broaden the base of support for the project among
non-poor families who are called upon to bear a portion of its costs (see also
para. 5.10). Together these districts house some 118,000 persons on 11,336
lots, about 85% of Bujumbura's 1978 population and, aside from the spontaneous
settlement of Musaga being upgraded under a UNDP pilot scheme, virtually all
of its poor.



- 12 -
2.06      Although the scope and intensity of proposed actions varies from one
neighborhood to another, about two-thirds of the investments would occur in
the three northern neighborhoods of Cibitoke, Kamenge, and Kinama. The design
standards and coverage within all neighborhoods reflect the intent to provide
a minimum set of improvements that are affordable and for which coste are most
likely to be recovered. As incomes and the demand for services rise over
time, some neighborhoods may choose to upgrade standards further and for this
purpose could draw on plans developed during project preparation. Since
upgrading neighborhoods are generally laid out in a gridiron pattern, the
improvements described below will be carried out without need for reloca-
tion of families residing in the project areas.
2.07      Street improvements would include the repair of 16 km of existing
streets in all 6 low-income neighborhoods, 10% of the total network, and new
street construction of 0.99 km. Major streets would be resurfaced with com-
pacted murram (laterite, locally "beton de sol de Karama"), in widespread
local use for streets with low and medium traffic volumes. Regrading and
levelling would include displacement of fill material which over the years has
gradually raised streets above the level of house lots, severely impeding
drainage. Works would be carried out in close relation to improvements to
roadside drains (see para 2.08) and, especially for 4.38 km of local and cross
streets in Bwiza, with serviced site preparation at Kwijabe (see para 2.12).
2.08      A total of 14,010 linear meters of drainage canals would be built
in three neighborhoods (Nyakabiga, Cibitoke, and Kamenge) presently lacking
an effective storm drain network, and extended and renovated in two others
(Kinama and Bwiza). These improvements would nearly double the existing
network and complement a project financed by AfDB ($5.2 million), BADEA
(4 million), and the Government ($1 million) under which an additional 13,520
linear meters of canals would be constructed in Buyenzi and Bwiza by the end
of 1982. Canals would be lined at higher elevations for effective channeling
of storm water, and at lower grade levels would be unlined.
2.09      As part of a $2.9-million project partially financed by the African
Development Fund (ADF), the old water distribution network in the project
areas is being replaced. Scheduled for completion of the final phase by
October 1980, this project is raising service levels in five neighborhoods
(Buyenzi, Bwiza, Nyakabiga, Ngagara, and Kamenge) to standards permitting
individual connections. Two other neighborhoods (Cibitoke and Kinama, see Map
14844) will continue for the time being to be served only by standpipes,
although mains are being dimensioned under this project to eventually allow
individual connections. Meanwhile, given the likely evolution of densities
and incomes, the demand for individual connections in the project areas should
remain small for some time to come. Interim sanitary measures, chiefly pit
latrines, should consequently be adequate in these areas for at least the next
five years.  Medium-term sanitation needs of Bujumbura neighborhoods would
also be addressed in a water supply and sanitation project now being prepared
for possible IDA financing.
2.10      The project would provide 64 additional standpipes in Buyenzi
(23), Bwiza (16), Nyakabiga (10), and Kamenge (15). With the ADF project
serving the remaining two low-income areas (Cibitoke and Kinama - 52 stand-
pipes), service would be provided to all project areas at 30 liters per capita
per day (lcd), with virtually all families within 200 meters of a standpipe.



- 13 -
2.11      Public lighting and electricity networks would be improved along
selected main streets in two low-income areas (Bwiza and Kamenge) and in
Ngagara. The bulk of the investments -- 85% of low-tension electricity and
75% of public lighting -- would however go toward extending the distribution
networks to Cibitoke and Kinama, which are presently without service. No
hookups to individual buildings aside from those to community facilities are
contemplated within the project, partly because connection fees ranging up
to US$535 discourage the growth of demand.
Serviced Plots
2.12      The project would support preparation of 781 serviced plots at
Kwijabe, a 33-ha publicly owned site adjacent to the Bwiza upgrading neighbor-
hood. Selected primarily for its favorable topography (a constant 2% siope
without major undulations facilitates drainage) and excellent location just
north of the city center, the Kwijabe site would eventuallq shelter 4,700
persons on lots corresponding in size (250, 300, and 400 m ) to residential
lots in upgrading neighborhoods which average 380 m (see Maps 14704 and
14845). Community facilities including a primary school would occupy an
adjoining parcel of 5.63 ha. Families would occupy plots with a 25-year
lease-purchase agreement that could be upgraded to full title once the plot
has b en improved and a house constructed. Twenty of the 781 lots, about
600 m  each, would be sold freehold at full market value, with the proceeds
defraying a portion of the cost of the lowest-standard option.
2.13      A water distribution network of 2,495 meters of secondary mains
would serve 80% of the population with standpipes at 30 lcd, and eventually
as much as 20% through private connections at 60 lcd. The existing water
treatment plant has sufficient capacity to meet forecast consumption at
Kwijabe. Electricity and public lighting networks would be installed along
main streets, with connections to public facilities.
2.14      Service standards would be the same as those in upgrading neighbor-
hoods: graded, unpaved streets and footpaths; drains; water standpipes; and
public lighting. No individual water or sewerage connections or contractor-
built core houses are proposed.  Site preparation would include filling of
few depressions with locally available fill material not exceeding 18,000 mn
plus staking of property boundaries. Because of Kwijabe's central location,
no off-site road works are required. Pedestrian pathways would not be im-
proved beyond a general leveling. Although drains within the site have
been tailored to specific site requirements, those off-site would be dimen-
sioned to take account of anticipated future growth in adjoining areas as well
as current needs. Such growth could be accommodated in succeeding projects if
this small initial demonstration persuades the Government to replicate the
serviced site approach to low-cost housing on a wider scale.
House Construction and Improvement
2.15      In upgrading areas, building loans averaging $920 at 1980 prices
would be provided for 1,080 families for purposes of house improvement and



- 14 -
new housebuilding. Loans would be made for as little as $315 so that families
unable to afford an across-the-board change from non-permanent to semi-
permanent housing can still make modest improvements to their houses (in this
case, a corrugated sheetmetal roof in place of thatch). The maximum loan of
about $1,735 would permit construction of a 3-room, artisan-bullt house with
sand or stone foundation, cement floor, banco (mud brick) walls with stabilized
earth finish, and corrugated sheetmetal roof. Houses of this type can last up
to 25 years without major maintenance.
2.16      Most plots in upgrading neighborhoods have been settled under
customary occupation rights rather than full legal title.  As such rights
confer adequate security of tenure and may also be transferred, residents have
had little incentive to seek full title. Nor is there a noticeable difference
in the rate of investment in house construction under different forms of land
tenure. However, at residents' initiative loans could also be used to meet
the legal fees associated with regularization of land tenure.
2.17      Building loans for the Kwijabe serviced plots would range from $670
for a 3-room, self-built house of 48 m  (earth foundation and floor, mud brick
walls with earth finish, and bamboo or thatch roof) to $2,500 for a 3-room
semi-permanent house of the same size built by a small local contractor. These
types of houses are common in upgrading neighborhoods and conform to local
tradition, in which dwellings are progressively improved in quality rather
than quantity terms.2 Thus, although families could choose a smaller house
(say two rooms, 32 m ) and add spa9e later, the great majority are expected to
build right away at a minimum 48 m and upgrade the quality of materials and
finish over time as their incomes permit. The above costs include allowance
for individual pit latrines on the plots, and were determined on the basis of
construction costs in relation to what each income decile in the target group
can afford. Promotion, screening of applicants, granting of loans, and the
organization of building materials procurement would be handled by a Housing
Bureau to be created within the Municipality (see para 4.06).
Promotion of Artisans
2.18      Artisan activities in Bujumbura are quite varied and include masonry,
woodworking, brickmaking, mechanics, and milling. In general these artisans
lack technical and financial resources to operate efficiently, as they do not
have adequate tools or sufficient raw materials and credit. It also seems
that a large number of them either have several occupations or are engaged in
activities on a seasonal basis. As a result, the main problem is more one of
low productivity than lack of work.
2.19      This component would aim to reach artisans working in the upgrading
neighborhoods and Kwijabe site and service area, alone or with at most one or
two employees, through provision of (a) advice and training in basic record
keeping, supply, marketing, and entrepreneurial skills; (b) credits for
acquisition of equipment, materials, tools, and working capital; (c) technical
training to improve product quality; and (d) training of apprentices by the
artisans themselves, together with installation credits after training. The



- 15 -
occupations assisted -- masons, carpenters, tailors, and metalworkers/
tinsmiths -- predominate in numbers and importance within Bujumbura as indeed
in most African cities. 1/ A series of trainers/promoters, who would them-
selves receive the necessary training, would operate out of the Housing Bureau
neighborhood offices to provide technical and f inancial assistance at the site
of the artisans' employment. Credits for all purposes would -verage $750 and
would be repaid at 8% over 9 years including two years of grace for equipment
loans and in successive one-year tranches for working capital loans (see also
para 5.05). A total of 500 artisans and 90 apprentices would be reached.
2.20      A portion of the training of metalworkers/tinsmiths would involve
the introduction of new techniques of producing charcoal-burning stoves. Such
stoves currently on the market are used for cooking by 85% of poor families in
Bujumbura. The very low efficiency of their operation contributes to energy
loss and leads to excessive household expenditures on energy, 27% of monthly
income on average and up to 40% in some neighborhoods. Peat is an economi-
cally attractive substitute for charcoal but cannot be burned in existing
stoves. The project would support four months of technical assistance and a
small amount of equipment and materials in a program to sensitize metalworkers
to improved stove design, based on techniques proven effective in other coun-
tries. Improved stoves would be affordable to poor families and could burn
peat in addition to charcoal.
Community Facilities
2.21      A total of 24 classrooms in three primary schools would be built and
equipped in the most deficient upgrading neighborhoods and at the Kwijabe
site. Two of the three new schools would include one workshop unit each for
post-primary technical education offering courses in carpentry, bricklaying,
mechanics, and home economics. Additional courses in adult education and
other community activities would be offered in these workshops outside of
scheduled classroom hours. The addition of these classrooms and of a
school to be constructed in Musaga with UNCDF financing would maintain the
present enrollment ratio for project area children in city public primary
schools of 50%. School access would also be maintained, in that 70% of pupils
enrolled from the upgrading areas would continue to be located no farther than
1 km from a school. An additional Il primary schools, 45% of the existing
total, would be renovated at an average cost of about $39,000 each. 2/
1/   J.M. Page, "Small Enterprises in African Development:  A Survey", Bank
Staff Working Paper No. 363, October 1979.
2/   No direct action concerning health care is planned within the project.
Renovation of two of the three existing public health clinics presently
serving the city's low and middle-income population would be undertaken
by the Health Ministry outside the context of the proposed project. It
should nevertheless be noted that 70% of diseases observed in low-income
neighborhoods of Bujumbura are related to unhealthful environmental
conditions in such areas. Upgrading should consequently have important
indirect effects on the health status of project residents.



- 16 -
2.22      Three of the five existing markets in the upgrading areas would
be graded and provided with drainage by the proposed Technical Services
Department (TSD) of the Municipality using road maintenance equipment financed
through the project (see para 2.25). The other two are to be renovated with
Belgian assistance which is also to improve the site of the central downtown
market and provide a new sixth market in Cibitoke. TSD would establish a
similar market at the Kwijabe site, to serve Kwijabe and Bwiza.
2.23      Sites have been reserved for aditional sports fields in five up-
grading neighborhoods and at Kwijabe. Although no suitable vacant land is
available in Cibitoke for this purpose, fields in adjacent neighborhoods are
within walking distance. No additional resources are required for preparation
of these sports fields, as past experience has indicated that neighborhood
volunteers for this type of work respond adequately to appeals for mutual-help
labor.
Municipal Services
2.24     This component would support the purchase of equipment, vehicles,
tools, and construction of vehicle repair and maintenance facilities to
improve the Municipality of Bujumbura's capacity to carry out its respon-
sibilities in (a) maintenance of streets and drains; (b) maintenance of public
buildings; and (c) solid waste disposal (see also paras 1.20, 1.29-1.30).
With the assistance of the project, adequate manpower and recurrent budget
support is expected to be available for the efficient execution of these
municipal programs. A Collection Bureau would also be established within the
Municipality to recover investment and recurrent costs of the project.
2.25      Existing functional units would be reorganized into a Technical
Services Department (TSD) that would oversee equipment and materials
purchases, organize materials stocks, and supervise the following activities:
(i)  Maintenance of streets and drains:  20 maintenance teams of
one foreman and five laborers each to undertake regular
maintenance of drains and culverts; a mechanized brigade for
periodic regrading of streets and preparation of sites for
markets and sports fields (see paras 2.22-2.23);
(ii)  Maintenance of public buildings:  creation of a Building
Maintenance Unit, furnished with the necessary equipment and
materials, to carry out maintenance and repair on demand of
(a) local administrative centers, tribunals, and the munici-
pal building; and (b) primary schools and health centers, in
in addition to preventive maintenance on about 50 other
buildings; and
(iii)  Solid waste disposal:  improvement of 20 existing discharge
points and purchase of 6 dump trucks, tools, and equipment to
process the solid waste from upgrading neighborhoods and
markets.



- 17 -
Regular maintenance and repair of the vehicles and equipment described above
would be handled by a separate TSD unit with capacity for general repair,
welding/soldering, and woodworking.
2.26      The existing municipal collection service would become a Collection
Bureau having responsibility for collection of project-related charges and
taxes (see paras 4.08 and 5.03-5.08) in addition to current municipal taxes.
To this end the project would support the purchase of office furniture and
furnishings, light vehîcles, and a tabulating machine.
Proiect Management and Technical Assistance
2.27      Contract supervision and general coordination of the project would
be the responsibility of a Project Unit to be created within the Public Works
Ministry. Two expatriates, a senior adviser and a municipal engineer, would be
associated with a local staff of 12 people, including a project manager and
municipal engineer, that would furnish advice, technical assistance, and
training to other implementing agencies.
2.28      Consultants' services totalling about US$2.3 million or US$ 8,100
per man-month would be provided as follows (staff-months are indicated in
parentheses; see also para. 3.01):
(i) for the Project Unit, a Senior Adviser (54) and a Municipal
Engineer (36);
(ii)  for the Municipality of Bujumbura:
- an Adviser to the Director (42) and an Administrative
Officer for the Housing Bureau
- an Adviser to the Director (24) and a Maintenance Chief (30)
for the Technical Services Department
- a Fiscal Adviser/Administrator (12) for the Collection
Bureau;
(iii)  for the Artisan Promotion program, a Senior Adviser (30) and
three Technical Trainers (carpentry, tailoring, metalworking,
6 each);
(iv)  short-term assignments (12) to undertake evaluation studies and
assist with establishment of a records management system for
the Collection Bureau and with execution of audits of project
accounts.
2.29      Job descriptions and selection criteria for local counterpart staff
have been prepared for the above posts and would be the agreed basis for
recruitment. Training of street maintenance personnel would take place at



- 18 -
the Public Works Ministry training center in Gitega and would be organized
by a group being financed under the second IDA highways project (Credit No.
773-BU).   The mechanics training center of the Public Works Ministry in
Bujumbura would be the site of formation of technical and management staff
of the TSD vehicle repair workshop. A maintenance chief, two mechanics,
and an electrician, all recruited from the technical secondary school in
Kamenge, plus a welder/solderer and vehicle drivers would receive the re-
quisite training.
2.30       In addition to formal training, on the job experience would be
gained by a total of 132 professional staff in all phases of project execu-
tion. A "stair-step" approach would be used in which a small number of local
counterparts trained on the job would in turn train others. While this does
not ensure uniform training for all, it is the only means possible when
technical experts have major day-to-day responsibilities for launching project
operations and supervising construction. The 40 directly trained staff would
be from the Housing Bureau (13), TSD (10), Collection Bureau (3), artisan
promotion program (9), and Project Unit (5).
Studies
2.31       Funds totalling about $435,000 were made available through two
advances from the Project Preparation Facility (PFF) for feasibility studies
and completion of detailed designs for the first stage of infrastructure
investments. Studies were undertaken by the consulting firm URBAPLAN
(Switzerland) in collaboration with the Directorate General of Coordination
of Infrastructure, Ministry of Public Works.
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
3.01        The total cost of the project is estimated at FBu 1,483.4 million
(US$16.7 million), of which US$8.8 million, or approximately 53%, represents
the foreign exchange component. Base cost estimates are expressed in prices
as of mid-1980. Costs of civil engineering works were estimated on the basis
of consultants' feasibility studies, preliminary designs, and detailed engineer-
ing. Estimates of effective demand for housing loans in upgrading areas and
at the Kwijabe site were based on income surveys and on trends in construction
costs. Because well-located vacant land is still relatively plentiful and
public agencies incur no financial outlays for land acquisition, land is
treated as a non-monetized counterpart contribution and is therefore not
included in base costs. Since goods and equipment for project purposes would
be imported free of customs duties and internal taxes, base costs are net of
tax liabilities. The average cost per staff-year of consultants' services
(including salary, cost, fees, international travel and subsistence) is
estimated at $97,200 or about $8,100 per staff-month.  Services of key



- 19 -
counterpart staff during project start-up were valued on the basis of current
civil service base pay and benefits, plus a small incentive premium varying by
grade. Other incremental costs supported within the project include gasoline
and spare parts for project vehicles for an initial period of two years.
3.02      Physical contingencies of 12% and 10% were allowed f-r the community
facilities and upgrading and serviced sites components respectively. For all
other items except construction loans and artisan credits and the preparatory
studies, a physical contingency of 10% of base cost estimates was used. A
total price contingency of 27% was included for expected price increases on
all local and foreign costs items, including physical contingencies. The
foreign cost portion of this weighted average was based on estimates
(September 1979) of 9% in 1980, 8% in 1981-82, and 7% thereafter. A revised
series (10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982, and 7% thereafter) which became
available after base cost estimates had been completed would have made no
appreciable difference in this result. Domestic inflation of 16% in 1980, 12%
in 1981, and 10% in 1982 and later years was based on estimates adjusted for
the less rapid rise in wages and salaries expected during the project period.
Summary cost estimates are given in Table III.1 below.
B. Financing Plan
3.03      An IDA credit of US$15 million (FBu 1,333 million) is proposed,
which would finance 90% of total project cost including 100% of foreign
exchange requirements and 79% of local costs. The remainder of the financing
would be assured by a national government contribution of FBu 150.1 million
(US$1.7 million). Financial arrangements are summarized in Table III. 2 and
depicted schematically in the accompanying chart.
3.04       The Government would make the proceeds of the credit and its
own contribution available to the executing agencies as grants (for elements
such as community facilities and technical assistance, for which there is
traditionally no cost recovery) or loans (for items the cost of which would be
recovered). All project funds would be placed in a special consolidated
project account at the Central Bank (BRB) under the jurisdiction of the Public
Works Ministry, which would appoint the Project Manager as authorized signa-
tory of the account. Each executing agency would in addition maintain
separate project accounts. A subsidiary loan agreement would be concluded
between the Government and the municipality covering (a) civil works and
purchase of equipment, materials, and vehicles by the Municipal Technical
Services Department (TSD), and (b) street improvements and drainage works in
upgrading neighborhoods and at Kwijabe. Terms to the Municipality for funds
for civil works would be 6% interest for 18 years including three years of
grace, and for equipment purchases 8% for seven years including a two-year
grace period. These terms are line with those generally applied in Burundi to
similar types of transactions, and in addition would permit the Municipality
to build up a small surplus that would help finance other priority investments
after completion of the project.
3.05      To ensure prompt availability of the Government counterpart at the
beginning of the project, a first tranche of counterpart funds totaling FBu 25
million (US$280,000) from the FY1980 budget has been approved.



- 20 -                           TABLE MZI.l
BURUNDI
UEJA  DEVELOP!MT PFOJECT
Sumbary of Pro.ect Coite
(Base coîts at June 1980 prices)
FBu Millions                   US$ thousandu          % Foreign
Component              Local     Foreion      Total     Local   Foreign    Total    Exchange
A. Neighborhood Upgrading
1. Streets              22.0      51.2         73.2    247.2     575.3      822.5      70
2. Drainage             46.1      46.o         92.1   517.4    517.4    1,034.8        50
3. Water Supply          4.3       6.6        10.9      48.3      74.2      122.5      61
4. Electricity/
Public lighting      13.9      32.4        46.3   156.2       364.o      520.2      70
Subtotal A           86.3     136.2       222.5    969.1   1,530.9    2,500.0       61
B. Serviced Plots
1. Site Preparation      5.2      15.5        20.7      58.4     174.2      232.6      75
2. Streets               1.14      3.3          4.7     15.7      37.1       52.8      70
3. Drainage              8.8       8.8        17.6     98.9    92.9         197.8      50
4. Water Supply          4.5      o0.4        14.9      50.6    LI6.9       167.5      70
5. Electricity/          3.2      13.2        16.4      36.0    148.3       184.3      80
Public lighting
Subtotal B           23.1     531..        74.3   259.6       575.4      835.0      69
C. House Construction
1. Housing Credits     186.4        -        186.4  2,094.3       -       2,094.3       0
2. Housing Bureau        7.7      12.4        20.1      86.5     139.3      225.8      62
Subtotal C          194.1      12.4       206.5  2,180.8      139.3    2,320.1       6
D. Promotion of Artisans
1. Training Units        6.o      12.7         18.7     67.4     142.7      210.1      68
2. Artisan Credits      34.7       3.9         38.6    389.9      43.8      433.7      10
Subtotal D           40.7      16.6         57.3    457.3    186.5       643.8      29
E. CommunitY Facilities
1. Construction         33.0      49.5         82.5    370.8     556.2      927.0      60
2. Renovation           15.0      22.6         37.6    168       254.0      422.5      60
3. Equipment             1.1       8.4         9.5      12.4      94.4      106.8      89
and Materials
Subtotal E           49.1      80.5       129.6    551.7      904.6    1,456.3      62
F. Municipal Services
1. Technical Services   10.5      31.1         41.6    118.0     349.4      467.4      75
2. Maint. Streets        2.0      49.6         51.6    22.5      557.3      579.8      96
3. Maint. Bldgs.         2.1       7.8         9.9      23.6      87.6      111.2      79
4. Solid Waste Disposal  1.1      31.9         33.0     12.3     358.5      370.8      97
5. Collection Bureau     1.17      4.2         5.9      19.1      47.2       66.3      71
Subtotal F              17.4    124.6        142.0   195.5   1,400.0    1,595.5        88
G. Project Management and
Technical Assistance    86.1     134.8       220.9    967.4   1,514.6    2,482.0       61
H. Studiés                  8.0       34.9        42.9     89.9     392.1      482.0       81
I. Design and Supervision   o.6       5.3          5.9      6,8      59.5       66.3       90
Base Costs             505&4     596.5     1,101-9  5,678.1   6,702.9   12,381.0       54
(Subtotal A-I)
Physical               20.5      45.6         66.1   230.7      512.0      742.7      69
Contingencies
(6%)
Price Contingencies   173.5     141.9        315.4  1,949.6   1,594.1    3,543.7       45
(27%)
TOTAL PROJECT COST     699.4     784.0    1,483.4  7,858.4   8,809.0   16.667.4         53



- 21 -
Table III. 2 Financing Plan
(amounts in FBu millions)
Total          IDA             National Government
Component                    Cost        Amount      Z        Amount          %
Neighborhood                  309.5      287.6      93         21.9            7
Upgrading
Serviced Plots                104.1       96.7      93          7.4           7
House Construction
Housing Credits            255.7       199.1      78        56.6           22
Housing Bureau               23.9       21.9      92         2.0            8
Promotion of Artisans
Training Units              25.2        23.4      93         1.8            7
Artisan Credits              58.3       46.4      80         11.9          20
Community Facilities          195.4      181.5      93         13.9            7
Municipal Services            182.6      175.1      96          7.5            4
Project Management/           285.8      262.7      92         23.1            8
Technical Assistance
Studies                       42.9        38.9      91         4.0            9
Total Project Cost       1,483.4    1,333.3       90       150.1           10
US$ equivalent               16.7       15.0      90          1.7          10
(millions)
C. Procurement
3.06      Contracts for an aggregate value of US$3.86 million equivalent
including contingencies would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines, for
procurement associated with major civil works and equipment. To the extent
practicable, contracts would be grouped both to permit efficient bulk procure-
ment and to meet implementation targets. For bid evaluation purposes, under
international competitive bidding, a margin of 15% or the value of the appli-
cable customs duties, whichever is lover, would be allowed for materials and
equipment manufactured in Burundi. Qualified domestic contractors would
be accorded a preferential margin of 7.5% over the bid prices of competing
foreign contractors in the evaluation of bids.



BURUNDI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT FLOW OF FUNDS
GOVERNMENT
* Off-site Infrastructure
_       .mplementing Agencies 0* Technical Assistance
o  I Implementing  Agencies  * Community Facilities
(Costs not Recovered)                                               * Studies
E    pecal Projen                                                                                                                        n
SMunicial Clection
Account                                                                                                                             Bureau
B    B-(BR.B.)   __
U r   _             I~~~~Recovered Costs)
/~~~~~~~~~~j... a- E0                                                                   *On-site infrastrucue----,_   Upgradmrg and
I.D.A.~~~~~~~ t                                  _                   Muicpa                a   Urban Services       -     Urban TaxpaVers 
2_ù                 | ~~~~~Technical Services 
= ti                                                      a   Housing Credits                Borrowers 
Ministry ofAtsan Promotion                         Artisains 
Worlcl Banik -21230



- 23 -
3.07      A number of small contracts totalling US$a.7 million equivalent
not likely to attract foreign suppliers or contractors would be awarded
after competitive bidding advertised locally but open also to bidders without
local representation. These would include (a) office equipment, furniture,
and furnishings for the Project Unit, Housing Bureau, artisan training units,
and municipal services (totalling US$290,000), and (b) construction of muni-
cipal TSD headquarters and renovation of the proposed Housing Bureau offices
(US$400,000). Under local competitive bidding, procedures for bid evaluation
and award are patterned after those commonly used internationally, and winning
foreign bidders may be paid in foreign exchange. Local procedures were
reviewed during appraisal and found to be satisfactory.
3.08      Street improvements (Roads and Bridges Department, Ministry of
Public Works), water and electricity networks (Regideso), primary school
construction (Education Project Unit, Ministry of Education), and staking of
plots at Kwijabe (Land Title Office, Ministry of Agriculture) would be carried
out by departmental forces of these units. The cost of these operations is
estimated at US$4 million equivalent including contingencies. Based upon
local experience, this method would be more economical and expeditious than
using private contractors.
3.09      Draft tender documents and master lists of equipment, vehicles, and
furniture would be reviewed by the Association. Review of tender documents
prior to bid award vould be required only for civil works contracts above
US$250,000 and for equipment contracts greater than US$75,000.
D. Disbursement
3.10      Disbursements would be made on the basis of:
(a) 80% of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
vehicles, materials, and furniture, and 75% of local
expenditures if procured locally;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures
for consultant services;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures and 75% of local expenditures
for operating costs and salaries of project implementing
agencies;
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures
for housing and artisan credits; and
(f)  100% reimbursment of the PPF advance for the feasibility
study to prepare the project.



- 24 -
3.11      All disbursements would be fully documented, except for disbursements
of local expenditures for (a) civil works executed by force account; (b)
operating costs and salaries of project implementing agencies; and (c) housing
and artisan credits to beneficiaries. These disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditure, documentation for which would be retained
by the Borrower and made available for IDA review during project supervision.
An advance of US$410,000 from the Project Preparation Facility was made to
prepare the project during 1979, and a further advance of $177,000 has been
approved to complete detailed designs as well as to cover project-related
expenditures for technical assistance, equipment, and vehicles required during
start-up of the Project Unit. These items would be procured in accordance
with project requirements.
3.12      The schedule of estimated disbursements of the proposed IDA
credit is given in Table III.3 below:
Table III. 3 Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA Disbursements   Cumulative Disburse-
each quarter       ments, end of quarter  Z Cumulative
IDA FY    Quarter Ending          (US$ million)           (US$ million)       Disbursements
1981      March 31, 1981              0.6                    0.6                    4
June 30, 1981              0.2                    0.8                    5
1982      September 30, 1981          0.4                    1.2                    8
December 31, 1981          0.6                    1.8                   12
March 31, 1982             0.7                    2.5                   17
June 30, 1982              0.7                    3.2                   21
1983      September 30, 1982          0.8                    4.0                   27
December 31, 1982          0.8                    4.8                   32
March 31, 1983             1.3                    6.1                   41
June 30, 1983              1.9                    8.0                   53
1984      September 30, 1983          1.3                    9.3                   62
December 31, 1983          1.2                   10.5                   70
March 31, 1984             1.1                   11.6                   77
June 30, 1984              1.0                   12.6                   84
1985      September 30, 1984          0.7                   13.3                   89
December 31, 1984          0.7                   14.0                   93
March 31, 1985             0.5                   14.5                   97
June 30, 1985              0.5                   15.0                  100



- 25 -
IV.  MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Executing Agencies and Proiect Management
4.01      Overall responsibility for project execution would lie with the
Ministry of Public Works, Equipment, and Housing (MTPEL). A Project Unit
would be established within this ministry to coordinate and supervise all
aspects of project implementation. The Municipality of Bujumbura would
manage (a) maintenance operations and garbage collection through the Municipal
Technical Services Department; (b) administration of housing credits through
a newly created Housing Bureau; and (c) recovery of project costs through a
Collection Bureau. The artisan assistance program would be implemented by
the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor under the general supervision of the
Project Unit. A detailed description of these agencies' activities during
execution is given in the next section of this chapter (see para. 4.11).
4.02      Responsibilities of the chief executing agencies can be summarized
as follows:
Table IV.1
Responsibilities of Chief Executing Agencies
Agency                   Component                   Responsibility
Ministry of              neighborhood upgrading;   overall project supervision,
Public Works,          serviced plots;               including:
Project Unit             primary schools             - detailed engineering
- organization of procurement
- expenditure authorization
- construction supervision
Municipality of
Bujumbura
1.  Housing Bureau       House construction         - allocation of serviced plots
- administration of housing
credits
2.  Technical Services  municipal services           - maintenance of street and
Department                                           drainage network
- maintenance of public
neighborhood buildings
- vehicle repair and upkeep
- solid waste collection and
disposal



- 26 -
3.  Collection Bureau   neighborhood upgrading;   - collection of plot charges,
serviced plots;               loan repayments, and urban tax
house construction;         - collection of artisan credits
municipal services
Ministry of Social
Affairs and Labor      artisan promotion           - supervision of training
- processing of credit
applications.
Ministry of Public Works, Equipment, and Housing
4.03      This ministry is made up of three general directorates:  Coordina-
tion of Infrastructure, also responsible for housing, urban planning, and
regional growth policy; Roads; and Public Building construction. Besides
these directorates, two agencies attached to the Minister's office build and
supervise housing primarily for civil servants. The National Housing Office
(ONL) in 1978 had completed 136 dwelling units for high-level government
officials and had another 82 under constructon. Supervision of ONL's existing
mortgage loan portfolio has been taken over by the Public Housing Corporation
(SIP), the second of these agencies, whose main responsibility is to promote,
build, and manage housing in middle- and upper-middle brackets. SIP has begun
construction of 300 high-standard units at Mutanga, east of the Nyakabiga
upgrading neighborhood, and has stated a desire to move its operations down
the income scale as experience is gained. Regideso formerly had the same
organizational status as ONL and SIP, but since January 1980 has been attached
to the office of the Minister of Mines and Energy.
4.04      Project Unit.  The Project Unit would report directly to the Public
Works Minister and would oversee the technical, administrative, and financial
aspects of project execution. The 14-person Unit consisting of a project
manager, an expatriate senior adviser and engineer, and 11 other local staff
would be provided with sufficient resources to carry out the project
effectively. With the advice of consultants and based on accumulated experi-
ence, plans would be prepared during project execution for integrating the
functions of the Project Unit within the Directorate General of Coordination
of Infrastructure before the end of the project.
Municipality of Bulumbura
4.05      The current municipal organization results from an administrative
reform issued by mayoral decision on July 30, 1977.  The mayor is appointed by
the President of the Republic and is assisted by a Municipal Council. Geo-
graphically the city is divided into districts (quartiers) and larger neighbor-
hoods (zones), each with an administratively appointed chief. Many local
officials are also representatives of the Union for National Progress (UPRONA),
Burundi's single political party. In addition to current administration and



- 27 -
policy, the city is in charge of maintenance of secondary roads and streets,
garbage collection, drainage and sewerage, public lighting, water supply,
public transport, and public market facilities.
4.06      Housing Bureau.  Creation of a Housing Bureau within the municipal
government meets the need for a locally based city agency to rhannel finan-
cial resources into low-cost housing and give advice on appropriate building
methods. The Housing Bureau would be the Project Unit's technical and admin-
istrative representative in the neighborhoods, processing plot allocation at
Kwijabe and housing loans in serviced plot and upgrading areas. It would
consist of a central unit in charge of general liaison with other participat-
ing agencies and administration of a building materials supply network, plus
three branch offices to be established in headquarters of the UPRONA party.
Two foreign experts, a technical adviser and an administrative officer, would
assist a locally recruited staff of 24 persons including 7 building technicians
whose salaries would be covered for a period of up to two years.
4.07      Municipal Technical Services Department.  Mostly due to lack of
means, shortage of equipment and repair facilities, and weaknesses in organ-
izational structure, staff currently in charge of maintenance have not in the
past been equipped to carry out their functions effectively. The project
would reorganize such staff into an Operations Department and a support unit,
supervised by an Office of Management which would oversee work execution and
organize supply networks of materials and fuel. Divisions responsible for
street maintenance, garbage, and building maintenance respectively would make
up the Operations Department. The support unit would run a vehicle maintenance
garage and a woodworking and welding shop.
4.08      Collection Bureau.  To improve the revenue collection record of the
Municipality and recover project costs, the Collection Bureau would be
equipped to (a) define the economic base and rate of the urban tax, and (b)
collect plot charges and loan repayments in addition to all municipal taxes
including the urban tax. The team in charge of this service would consist
of 35 persons including all present tax collectors, assisted for 12 months by a
consultant specialist in fiscal management.
Ministry of Social Affairs
4.09      The artisan promotion program would be supervised by the Ministry of
Social Affairs assisted by a tripartite working group consisting of one
representative each from the Municipality and the Ministries of Social Affairs
and Commerce and Industry. A central unit would administer artisan credits
for materials, equipment, and working capital and supervise technical training
by 5 trainers/promoters located within the project neighborhoods. The staff
of 12 persons would be assisted by a technical adviser for an initial 2-1/2
years and by three foreign experts in technical training in carpentry, metal-
working, and tailoring for periods of six months each.



- 28 -
4.10      Other participating agencies.  A number of other ministries and
agencies would provide specific support during implementation. Street
improvements in the upgrading neighborhoods would be carried out by the
Roads and Bridges Department (Ponts et Chaussées), Ministry of Public Works.
Water, electricity and public lighting networks would be installed, operated,
and maintained by Regideso. In each case the departmental work forces to be
deployed have sufficient experience to give assurances of cost-effectiveness
in execution of these works. The Land Title Office of the Ministry of
Agriculture would be responsible for staking of plots at the Kwijabe serviced
site. Supervised by the Project Unit, the education project unit of the
Ministry of Education would construct and renovate primary schools under the
project. The Ministry would provide the necessary teachers and staff and
would carry out maintenance on school buildings until 1982, when the municipal
TSD would take over maintenance functions.
B. Prolect Implementation
Housing Services
4.11      The project would be carried out as shown in Chart 2.  Beginning
with the neighborhoods of Cibitoke, Kamenge, and Kinama, upgrading civil works
would be completed by the end of 1983. In November 1979 the Kwijabe site was
transferred from the public domain to the Ministry of Public Works for the use
of the project. The first stage of 251 plots at Kwijabe would be finished by
end 1982 but ready for occupancy approximately six months earl er.  Over half
of all lots in the first stage are of the smallest size, 250 m . Completion
of another 273 plots by the end of 1983 would be followed by 257 plots in the
final phase during 1984.
4.12      Plot applicants for the Kwijabe site would be heads of household
meeting three criteria: (a) incomes between the 15th and 65th percentiles
of the Bujumbura income distribution; (b) residence in the city for at least
two years; and (c) absence of other property holdings. Length of residence
would be verified by a certificate from the zone chief, who would also assist
in confirmation of property ownership. Income would be checked using a
short questionnaire. A random number table process would be used to select
candidates for each phase; drawings would take place at an open meeting of the
National Urban Commission.
4.13      Housing loan applications would be taken by Housing Bureau staff,
who would promote appropriate building techniques and offer advice on the
types and costs of housing suited to the family's needs and circumstances.
Applications would be examined jointly by an administrative assistant and a
building technician, and for approval the Director of the Housing Bureau would
need to countersign. A record of payments for each family would be kept by



- 29 -
the local Housing Bureau units, with consolidated accounts maintained at the
central office. By virtue of an agreement with the Land Title Office, Housing
Bureau staff would also be empowered to grant tenure certificates to appli-
cants.
4.14      Housing loans would be made in cash to meet payments to hired
contractors but otherwise in the form of vouchers redeemable at a materials
depot and certified suppliers. Responsibility for organization of materials
stocks would be with the Housing Bureau, under the supervision of the Project
Unit. Development of a materials depot near the port, scheduled to start
operations in 1981, would facilitate placement of bulk orders up to 6 months
in advance of need. For both self-help and contractor-built dwellings,
10% of the housing loan would be given upon signature of the credit agree-
ment, with successive disbursements contingent upon satisfactory progress
during earlier phases of building. Allottees would begin construction within
18 months of signature of the acquisition contract, and would complete a house
suited to their incomes 36 months at most after taking possession of the plot.
Cultivation of family gardens and subletting of a portion of the plot (though
not of the plot itself) would be permitted.
4.15      The granting of full title to all plotholders is not a project
objective, in part because administrative costs of cadastral registration would
be high but mainly because occupation rights under customary law appear to
give adequate security of tenure. In upgrading areas the existing occupation
rights would be ratified under the project by deliverance of a Registry
Certificate to plotholders lacking them. For owners wishing to upgrade to
full title during the project, house construction loans could be used to meet
the technical and administrative costs of land tenure surveys associated with
legal title as well as fees for title transfer. The same would hold at
Kwijabe, where occupancy status would convert to full title at the end of a
25-year lease-purchase period. Families could use house construction loans or
their own resources to meet the legal costs of acquiring full title, but only
if the plot has been improved and a house constructed.
Assistance to Artisans
4.16      Trainer/promoters identified from the ranks of neighborhood artisans
would carry out the artisan promotion program operating from Housing Bureau
local offices (see para. 4.06). After six months of training at a local
training center under the guidance of foreign assistants, trainer/promoters
would begin offering technical and financial advice to carpenters, metal-
workers, and tailors, with specific programs defined in consultation with
local artisans. Training of masons would be handled by the Housing Bureau.
Advice on the use of local building materials such as lime and roofing tiles
would be coordinated with the local construction industry project now being
prepared for Bank financing. The program would build up to a pace of 170



- 30 -
artisans assisted per year beginning in 1983, permitting a total of 500 to be
reached by the end of the project. Besides program supervision, the central
unit would oversee training of apprentices by artisans who on completion of
training would obtain credit to become established in business.
4.17      Training of metalworkers in improved stove design would be coordi-
nated by the Department of Energy, Ministry of Mines and Energy, which would
provide logistical support and an engineer counterpart of the technical
assistant. With the local engineer acting as liaison, the Department of
Energy would arrange with zone chiefs for provision of small neighborhood
shops where field trials would be undertaken. Zone chiefs have expressed a
willingness to provide such facilities and to publicize and promote the new
stoves to the population. The 18-month program would be assisted by a foreign
expert in low-cost energy use for two periods of two months each.
School Implementation
4.18      School and workshop construction and equipment procurement has
been phased in relation to civil works at the three school sites and to
ensure that schools would be ready to open in succeeding autumns: Cibitoke
in 1982, Kamenge/Kinama in 1983, and Kwijabe in 1984. Construction would
be undertaken by the Education Project Unit of the Education Ministry,
which has carried out the design, construction, and equipping of rural primary
schools under the first Bank-assisted education project (Credit No. 679 -BU)
and will build technical training facilities under the second project approved
by the Board of Executive Directors in January 1980. Renovation of existing
schools would be spread out over 1981-1983.
4.19      Priorities for community use of new workshop buildings and primary
schools after class hours were established in December 1979 by an interminis-
terial working group. These guidelines would be used by individual primary
school principals to decide on an after-hours schedule for their schools in
collaboration with UPRONA, the ministries providing staff, and the community.
Municipal Services
4.20      All units of the ]unicipal TSD would be housed in 214 m  of perma-
nent buildings with a 570 m maintenance hangar and open parking area at a
1.5-ha site along the Chaussee de l'Agriculture (see Map 14704). A Management
Bureau within TSD would handle equipment and materials purchases and stocks.
A separate Maintenance and Repair Division including welding/soldering and
woodworking facilities would have the capacity to repair about 25 vehicles as
necessary and ensure regular maintenance of vehicles and heavy equipment.
Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the vehicles, equipment, and
manpower indicated below would be used for the purposes described.
4.21      Maintenance of streets and drains.  The Municipality is currently
responsible for maintenance of 138 km of earth streets, mostly in outlying



- 31 -
neighborhoods. The project would establish and equip a total of 20 teams
consisting of 5 laborers and 1 foreman, three each under a maintenance crew
chief, to undertake periodic maintenance of drains and culverts and filling
of potholes. Regrading of streets would be done twice a year by a small
motorized work brigade whose capacity would be 300m of urban streets per day.
Another team of workers would tend to parks and vegetation. 7hen operational,
this maintenance unit would be able to maintain (a) 17 km of streets and
drains in upgrading neighborhoods and 1.2 km at Kwijabe; and (b) 30 km of
other municipal streets, or 60 km if fully utilized. The mechanized brigade
would also level and prepare sites for markets and sports fields (see paras
2.22-2.23).
4.22      Maintenance of public buildings.  At present, responsibility for
maintenance of public buildings rests with the Buildings Department, whose
efforts have been confined to headquarters buildings in the city center. A
unit within TSD would be created to undertake maintenance of (a) zone chief
headquarters, tribunals, and the city hall; and (b) primary schools and health
centers. The necessary equipment and materials would be furnished for
the unit to carry out maintenance and repair on demand as well as preventive
maintenance on about 50 other buildings.
4.23     Solid Waste Disposal.  In neighborhood surveys residents have cited
poor garbage collection and disposal as a major service deficiency. Garbage
is dumped on the ground at unorganized dump sites or buried in back yards.
The project would support a solid waste managment unit within TSD as a first,
interim step toward a more permanent solution. About 20 discharge points
would be provided with a simple cement platform about 3 meters square, so
garbage does not remain on the ground. The vehicle fleet would be strengthened
with the purchase of six garbage trucks to transport the estimated 239 tons of
solid waste per week from upgrading areas and markets. The Municipality would
manage a 4-ha disposal site at Buterere (see Map 14704) using equipment of the
mechanized brigade (para. 4.21).
Collections
4.24      Properties subject to the urban tax would be classified by the
Collection Bureau in collaboration with the Housing Bureau and with zone
chiefs. City employees presently responsible for collecting market fees and
other city taxes would be strengthened to handle collection of project-related
charges twice a month at each zone office. Payments would be recorded at the
Municipality before being transferred to the Project Unit special account and
subsequently credited to sub-accounts of executing agencies. These arrange-
ments were discussed at appraisal. Regideso would establish a separate
account for expenditures and receipts under the project and is fully capable
of absorbing the associated overhead in its current operations. Liability for
payments, particularly plot charges for infrastructure, would coincide as
closely in time as possible with installation of the works.



- 32 -
Local Participation
4.25      The mix of interventions proposed was determined through a dialogue
with upgrading area residents during the feasibility study. First, priority
needs expressed in a 1978 household survey were tabulated. Small surveys
focusing on household structure and allocation of tasks and time undertaken in
the early stages of preparation were followed by discussion of preliminary
proposals in the neighborhoods.
4.26      City agencies to be created and strengthened would continue this
dialogue and play a catalytic role in community action. The Housing Bureau
would be the residents' intermediary and spokesman with other housing agencies,
and near the end of the project would have sufficient experience to plan new
programs on request. Road crew chiefs, at least one of which would be re-
cruited from each neighborhood, would be another focal point of community
organization for minor street and drainage works, possibly in coordination
with mutual-help activities organized by UPRONA. Tools and equipment of the
municipal TSD would be available on demand for preparation of sports fields,
parka, and other neighborhood projects.
Audits
4.27      Not later than eight months after the close of each Government
fiscal year, suitable financial statements including cash flows of project
sub-accounts and year-end balance sheets reflecting the financial operations
and position of the chief project entities would be made available to IDA.
These financial statements would be audited by an independent auditor accept-
able to IDA in association with the Commissioner of Accounts (Commissaire aux
comptes) of the Finance Ministry. The auditors would also review and comment
on the procedures used for control of disbursements against statements of
expenditure.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.28      Monitoring of project components by the Project Unit would ensure
that information essential to project execution is available to project
managers. Quarterly reports would be prepared on the basis of records systema-
tically kept of key indicators of progress toward project goals. The format
for such reports was discussed at negotiations. Progress in the introduc-
tion of improved charcoal stoves would be monitored by the local engineer
assigned by the Department of Energy to the project. A Project Completion
Report would be prepared following the close of disbursements.
4.29      In addition to regular monitoring, special studies bearing on
aspects of the project that are particularly innovative in the Burundi
context would be carried out on (a) the pace of house consolidation and
improvement at the Kwijabe serviced site; and (b) the performance of cost
recovery mechanisms. Each study, whose cost (about US$25,000 each) has



- 33 -
been included under Project Management, is expected to take 3 man-months
to complete. Commitments and disbursements under housing and artisan credits
would be subject to a special review at the halfway point, to gauge their
effectiveness in reaching the intended beneficiaries.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
5.01      An essential step in bringing even minimum-cost housing within
reach of Burundi's urban poor on a broad scale is to ensure that the value
families place on improvements is at least equal to their cost. Design
standards and costs in the proposed project have been tailored to the pre-
vailing income distribution, and the designs themselves are responsive to
preferences Bujumbura residents have expressed through a 1978 household survey
and during the preparatory studies. While necessary, such measures give only
a limited indication whether costs can actually be recovered or agency capa-
cities permanently strengthened to repeat the project on a wider scale. For
the greatest likelihood of attaining these goals, the following cost recovery
criteria have been adopted:
(a)  in view of Bujumbura's chronic problems in financing
infrastructure maintenance, project expenditures to improve
maintenance operations, including recurrent costs to get
these activities underway, should be recovered;
(b)  since many household heads work more than one job and the time
of other family members is equally scarce, calculations of
affordability should recognize that for the most part, houses
will be built using hired labor rather than self-help;
(c)  prospects for continued sluggish performance of the economy
suggest it is wise to assume (i) no savings are available from
family resources for a down-payment; and (ii) no more than 20%
of income would be devoted to housing; and
(d)  especially where the Municipality is concerned, the project
should leave implementing agencies better able from a financial
and institutional standpoint to provide basic services to the
urban population.
B. Cost Recovery
5.02      Investments in upgrading neighborhoods and at Kwijabe including
design and supervision, on-site infrastructure, housing loans, and municipal
services totalling about 56% of total project cost would be recovered through



- 34 -
plot charges and loan repayments from beneficiaries and a new municipal
maintenance and garbage collection tax (see para 5.06). All allocable costs
of the upgrading and sites and services components would be recovered directly
from beneficiaries. Investments in off-site infrastructure (to be partly
recovered through water and electricity tariffs), community facilities, and
technical assistance, which account for the remaining 44% of total project
costs, are viewed as benefiting a larger population and would be absorbed in
the national government budget.  The cost recovery provisions of the project
are summarized in Table V.1.
Table V.1  Schedule of Cost Recovery
(FBu millions, mid-1980 prices)
Absorbed by
National                 Costs Recovered by
Component             Total Cost  Government    Plot charges Loan payments Urban Tax
Neighborhood Upgrading
On-site                229.3                       229.3
Off-site                75.2         75.2
Serviced Plots
On-site                 70.1                        70.1
Off-site                32.2         32.2
Housing Construction
Housing Credits        255.7                                      255.7
Housing Bureau          23.9                                       23.9
Promotion of Artisans
Training Units          25.2         25.2
Artisan Credits         58.3                                       58.3
Community facilities    195.4         195.4
Municipal Services
Technical Services      53.5                                                    53.5
Maint. Streets          66.2                                                    66.2
Maint. Bldgs.           12.8                                                    12.8
Solid Waste             42.5                                                    42.5
Collection Bureau        7.6                                                     7.6
Project Management and
Technical Assistance  285.8         285.8
Studies
Designs, upgrading
and serviced sites      11.0                        11.0
Feasibility study       38.7         38.7
Total              1,483.4        652.5          310.4          337.9        182.6
US$ equivalent          16.7          7.3            3.5            3.8          2.1
%                      100           44             21             23           12
Mechanisms
5.03      Plot charges would be levied on beneficiaries for on-site infras-
tructure in upgrading areas and Kwijabe, covering design and physical contin-
gencirs in addition to investments.  Recoverable costs average FBu 53 (US$0.60)
per m in upgrading neighborhoods and FBu 258 (Us%2.90) per m including an
imputed price for land, or about $725 for a 250 m plot, at the Kwijabe site:



- 35 -
FBu million
Land (At FBu 20/m 2                                   6.6
Design                                                 1.9
On-site infrastructure:
Site preparation                                   20.7
Streets                                             4.7
Drainage                                            9.7
Water Supply                                        8.9
Electricity                                         5.3
Sub-total                                       49.3
Total base cost                                    57.8
Physical contingencies                              5.8
Total cost to be recovered                           63.6
Monthly charges would amortize costs attributable to each plot at 12% over 25
years with a six-month grace period bef re the first payment.  At the Kwijabe
site, 20 outsized plots averaging 600 m would be sold at market prices, with
receipts applied to reduce the cost of the lowest-standard options. A form of
inter~al cross-subsidy will also apply in upgrading areas, since charges on a
per-m basis are approximately the same but investments are heavier in the
poorer, peripheral neighborhoods (see also para. 2.06). Terms and conditions
of the plot occupancy certificate, including those with respect to remedies
for non-payment of plot charges, would be acceptable to the Bank.
5.04      Loans for house construction and improvement and under the artisan
promotion program would be recovered through direct monthly payments. Terms
for housing credits would be 12% for 15 years including nine months of grace.
The financial charge of 12% covers administrative overheads of the Housing
Bureau estimated at 3% per annum, and an additional 1.8% sufficient to consti-
tute a risk reserve equal to 30% of annual payments of capital and interest
due from beneficiaries. The proposed charge is non-negative in real terms, as
domestic inflation is expected to diminish to 12% in the later years of the
project. A number of measures satisfactory to the Bank including repossession
of the plot would be put in place to enforce repayment of housing loans.
In the case of prolonged non-compliance with repayment terms or with condi-
tions of plot development (see para. 4.14), the Housing Bureau would be
legally empowered to annul the occupancy permit and reallocate the plot to
another family in the target group, after compensation for investments already
made.
5.05      Monthly installments for artisan credits would be made at 8%
interest, for nine years including two years' grace for loans for equipment
purchases and expansion of workshop space. Loans for working capital would
be made in successive one-year tranches on the basis of demonstrated repayment
of earlier tranches over the previous six months. Interest of 8% represents a



- 36 -
step toward positive real interest rates but remains comparable to rates on
loans for similar purposes, which average 6%-7% but carry repayment periods of
at most five years. General administrative outlays of the artisan promotion
program would be assumed by the Ministry of Social Affairs during and after
the project; assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.   Pay-
ments include a 1% risk fund representing 20% of total annuities receivable.
5.06      An urban tax to be levied on dwelling rental values in Bujumbura
would cover repayment of the Municipality's subsidiary loan from Government
(see para 3.04) and project-related costs of maintenance and garbage collec-
tion. A bMilt-in surcharge would be included for average water consumption
of 1,000 m /month per standpipe billed at current rates and for annual running
costs of public lighting of FBu 2,464 for consumption and FBu 4,656 for main-
tenance per light fixture. Finally, the urban tax would recover all recurrent
costs of project-related municipal operations not supported within the project.
5.07      House rental values adjusted for the size and type of construction
would form the base of the urban tax. Since dwelling sizes are for the most
part already adequate for 6-7 person families, the base would be graduated to
encourage upgrading of house quality relative to physical expansion of the
house:
Table V.2 Monthly Urban Tax Payments
By Dwelling Size and Quality of Construction
(Current FBu)
Dwelling Size (m )
Quality              < 40       40-50       50-100       100-150      > 150
non-permanent         35.4       94.3        132.8         295           442
semi-permanent        35.4      117.9        206.3         590        1,178
permanent             53.1      132.1        331.3       1,474        2,434
2
In the above illustration, a family in a 48 m  non-permanent house would have
an incentive to upgrade to semi-permanent materials (94.3 to 117.9) rather
than add on a room (94.3 to 132.8). Size categories are broad enough to
facilitate agreement on the approximate size of a house without having to
measure.
5.08      Proceeds of this tax are expected to rise from 22% of total munici-
pal receipts in 1982 to 80% beginning in 1985. Collection of the urban tax
and of all other project-related charges would be undertaken by a Collection
Bureau to be created within the municipal government and provided with equip-
ment, supplies, and technical assistance. Costs associated with equipping
and operating the Collection Bureau would themselves be recovered by means of
the urban tax.
C. Affordability
5.09      Serviced plots.  The lowest-cost option at the Kwijabe site involves
construction of a 3-room self-built house of non-permanent materials with pit



- 37 -
latrine costing FBu 59,700 (US$670) on a 250 m  serviced lot.  Monthly install-
ments of principal repayment with interest would require a household income of
FBu 7,400 (US$83) per month in 1980 prices. Based on 20% of the income of
Bujumbura families devoted to housing, of which 3% would be earmarked for
recovery of maintenance and garbage collection through the urban tax, 17%
remains for dwelling-specific services including the house itself. On this
basis the lowest-cost option is affordable by families with incomes at the
20th percentile of the Bujumbura income distribution (see Table V.3). At the
upper end of the range is a contractor-built 3-room house of semi-permanent
materials, accessible to families at the 63rd percentile of the city income
distribution. Relative to the citywide poverty threshold (55th percentile)
the Kwijabe plots would thus make a start toward alleviating the housing
shortage among households immediately above the poverty group, while primarily
serving the poor.
Table V.3 Sites and Services - Lot Options
Charges and Affordability
(FBu, 1980 prices)
Lot Type                                   A           A           A          B
Number of lots                 2         216         381         164           20
Lot Size                     (m )        250         300         400           600
Cost per m2                  (FBu)       258         258         258          258
Tenure                                   lease-      lease-      lease-       freehold
2                         purchase   purchase   purchase
Cost per net m               (FBu)       205         240         275          500 a/
Total lot
development cost             (FBu)    51,000      72,000      110,000     300,000
Cash Payment                 (FBu)         -           -            -   5,400,000 ai
Monthly plot charges         (FBu)       540         758        1,158           -
Building materials loan:
Max     (FBu)   225,000    225,000       225,000
Min     (FBu)    59,700      59,700       59,700
Total lot and
building materials
loan:               Max      (FBu)   276,000    297,000      335,000
Min     (FBu)   110,700    131,700       169,700
Monthly charges:
Max     (FBu)      3,240       3,458       3,858
Min     (FBu)      1,257       1,475       1,875
Percent of income
for housing                               17          17           17
Monthly income required:
Max     (FBu)    19,100       20,300      22,700
Min     (FBu)      7,400       8,700      11,000
Percentile range:
Max                   59          61           63
Min                   20          25           31
ai   cash sale price.
A = lease-purchase plots; B = freehold plots.



- 38 -
5.10      Upgrading.  Plot charges and the affordability of improvements
in upgrading neighborhoods are shown in Table V.4. Upgrading of the smallest
lot would call for a monthly payment of FBu 112 (US$1.26), affordable by all
but 2% of families on the basis of the income distribution in these neighbor-
hoods. A package of improvements including an average building credit is
within reach of households in the third income decile.
Table V.4 Lot charges and Affordability,
Upgrading Neighborhoods
(FBu, 1980 prices)
Monthly Payment          Minimum Monthly             Lowest Income
a/                        b!
per Household-l         Income Required-         Percentile Reached
With
2    Plot    Without    FBu 82,000   Without            With       Without        With
Lot Size (m )  Charge  bldg. loan  bldg. loan  bldg. loan  bldg. loan  bldg. loan  bldg. loan
200             10,600       112         1,096          660         6,447           2           19
200-240         12,700        134        1,118          778         6,576           3           20
240-300         15,900        167        1,151          982         6,770           3           21
300-350         18,550       195         1,179        1,147         6,935           3           21
350-400         21,200       223         1,207        1,312         7,100           4           22
400-450         23,850       251         1,235        1,476         7,264           4           23
al   Based on 12% interest over 25 years.
b/   With 17% of monthly household income devoted to housing.
5.11      Project area families and others in the city would be liable for the
proposed urban tax (see para 5.06) up to a maximum 3% of income. As shown in
Table V.2 above, monthly tax payments would be graduated according to size and
especially type of construction. Payments would be slightly progressive in
incidence, varying from 1.3% of income at the low end of the income scale to
3% in the upper ranges. In upgrading areas all payments for infrastructure,
urban tax included, are accessible at the 3rd income percentile.



- 39 -
D. Replicability
5.12      By creating new institutions such as the Rousing Bureau and strength-
ening those with current responsibility for urban services, the project pro-
vides the basis for continuation of low-cost housing programs in Bujumbura.
Although the government views some items such as off-site infrastructure as
one-time efforts that could not reasonably be recovered from the final benefi-
ciaries, all of the normal on-site interventions have been designed to stand-
ards which give the greatest assurance that costs would be recovered.
5.13      Financial replicability of upgrading measures is feasible for
virtually all families in Bujumbura. As incomes in Gitega, Ngozi, and other
secondary centers are known to be lower, such measures could be repeated in
these areas for a smaller segment of the population. Design features of the
Kwijabe site are replicable for a wide range of low-income urban families, but
are unsuited to the bottom two deciles in Bujumbura and a somewhat larger
fraction elsewhere. However, income from room or house rentals was not
included in the affordability calculations discussed above. Taking account of
income from this source, site and services housing would be accessible to
perhaps another 10% of families in Bujumbura.
5.14      Impacts on financial viability of project entities.  All project
sub-accounts including housing and artisan credits and municipal maintenance
show a net annual cash surplus that would be available to underwrite future
operations in the urban sector. Upon completion of the project (end 1984) a
cumulative net surplus of FBu1O4.6 million (US$1.17 million) would exist, the
initial government budget outlays for project start-up having been covered by
payments from beneficiaries. Beginning in 1985, when housing loan repayments
and plot charge installments are close to the expected annual yield of about
FBu 35 million each, net annual additions to the surplus should reach FBu 100
million.
5.15      These arrangements would bring about a fundamental improvement in the
fiscal structures of the Bujumbura Municipality and of Regideso. In recent
years the municipal budget has been characterized by a very low level of
activity -- the city receives no national government transfers and receipts from
local sources in 1979 did not exceed US$450,000 - in which only about three-
quarters of revenue is actually spent. While the urban tax will improve revenue
performance, changes in task organization, functional responsibilities, and
training will bear at least as heavily on the Municipality's ability to shape
future patterns of urban growth.
5.16     As water tariffs in particular are insufficient to cover production
costs, Regideso experiences operating deficits which are covered by Government
transfers and which for water in 1978 amounted to FBu 42.6 million. The
Municipality's failure in recent years to meet its obligations toward Regideso
has contributed to operating losses on the existing system and acted as a
brake on new investment. Through payments by the Municipality covering water
and electricity consumption in the project areas, operational accounts of
Regideso would be brought more closely into balance, improving its capacity to
upgrade and extend service networks. The municipality agreed at negotiations
that such payments would be made according to the regular billing schedule of
Regideso.



- 40 -
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. General Justification and Prolect Benefits
6.01      Apart from considering the project's overall justification on a
cost-benefit basis (see paras 6.09-6.11), the project design and scale
selected are considered the most appropriate of several possible investment
alternatives. The emphasis on upgrading reflects both the high marginal
return to this activity compared with new site development and the limited
existing institutional capacity to execute sites and services. Nonetheless
the inclusion of a small site and services element was judged essential
because of the urgent need to demonstrate a low-cost replicable approach to
new residential development so as to lay the institutional foundation for
rational, planned urban growth.
6.02      Within the upgrading component, a broad effort to raise all neigh-
borhoods to minimum standards was chosen over a more intensive effort re-
stricted to one or a few neighborhoods because the former approach permitted
a comprehensive improvement in city-wide conditions within the constraints of
investment efficiency and of equity among neighborhoods.
6.03      Within the site and services component, the choice among alternative
plot standards was limited to maximize the site's attraction for lower income
families who lack access to conventional home financing. The introduction of
some built wet cores or individual connections would clearly have increased
the economic returns to site investment but would have reduced the impact on
the target urban poverty group. However, introduction of such alternatives
in the future is possible since off-site water and drainage was designed to
accommodate progressive future increases in water and sanitation standards.
6.04      By the end of the project period (1984), investments in infrastruc-
ture in the areas to be upgraded will have improved living conditions for some
118,000 persons or 85% of the city's population. Of these, about 6,000 will
also have improved the quality of their housing in varying degrees ranging
from minor improvements to full upgrading from non-permanent to semi-permanent,
with the building materials loans included in the project; these loans will
also permit a small number of residents to construct new houses. New housing
stock at the Kwijabe site will accommodate an additional 4,700 persons on 781
plots.  This amounts to roughly 8% of the total demand for new housing over
the four-year project period (1,600 new units per year) and 30% of the demand
by the site and service target group. The above constitute the direct,
immediate, physical benefits accruing from the investments financed through
the project.
6.05      The project's technical assistance, artisan promotion and energy
aspects will have a longer range, continuing direct impact on overall city
upkeep, artisan income, and household fuel expenditures. The expected im-
provement in the municipality's capacity to maintain streets, drainage and



- 41 -
garbage collection will benefit all city residents, as will other investments
and services which the increase in municipal revenues from the new urban
tax should make possible. Five hundred artisans and 90 apprentices will
realize greater earnings and productivity from the employment component. The
adoption of improved charcoal cooking stoves to be promoted by the energy
component could result in substantial fuel savings to the 85% of the city's
residents who now use less efficient stoves. Thus the project will affect
nearly every household of the city and many will be touched in more ways than
one.
6.06      An important indirect benefit will be the improvement in the health
status of the upgrading areas, where the great majority of health problems seen
in neighborhood health centers arise from poor environmental sanitation. Thus
although no specific health intervention or construction is included in the
project, it may be expected to have an important impact on the health status of
the poor and to complement other investments planned by the Health Ministry
and by international agencies.
6.07      Civil works contracts will generate employment both in the up-
grading areas and at Kwijabe. Since it is expected that roughly two-thirds
of the upgrading of existing housing and construction of new site and service
housing will be undertaken by small private contractors and individual artisans
(about 1,300-1,500 masons, carpenters, bricklayers, and other building trades
in the six major upgrading areas), it is likely that the entire group will
feel the effect. Assuming a current average per square meter construction
cost of $14 iexcluding labor) for a non-permanent house and an average house
size of 50 m , the $2.1 million in project-financed building materials loans
is equivalent to new construction of about 3,000 new dwellings or about 750
per year, which is roughly equivalent to the annual average output of the
informal private sector in the upgrading areas over the previous decade. In
addition, there will be awards to small local contractors for site prepara-
tion, roads and drainage for the Kwijabe site, in addition to civil works
to be executed by government agencies employing local labor.
6.08      The strengthening of the Municipality and creation of the Project
Unit will increase the government's ability to carry out a long-range program
for development of the city's substantial land reserves of which this project
constitutes a first phase. Experience with more cost-effective and lower
standard house types in this project should also stimulate and provide useful
technical information for needed efforts to seek cost reductions in government-
subsidized housing developments planned for civil servants.
B. Rate of Return Calculations
6.09      Internal economic rates of return were calculated separately for
upgrading and site and services investments. An overall rate of return



- 42 -
of 19% was obtained for the combined costs and benefits of these project
elements, which include design, supervision, project management and physical
contingencies plus half of housing-related technical assistance and constitute
68% of project cost net of price contingencies.
Upgrading
6.10      The costs of all civil works for improvements i.i streets, drainage,
water, electricity and public lighting were included, as were design and
supervision, loans for house improvements, three quarters of the costs of loan
administration and municipal services (the remainder being allocated to sites
and services), and the same share of all project management costs and of half
the cost of technical assistance. Annual maintenance expenses were based on
estimates of annual operating costs for the city's Technical Services Depart-
ment and for municipal street and building maintenance. As a measure of
benefits, increases in the rental value of property in the areas upgraded were
assumed to reflect relative existing rental differentials between neighbor-
hoods with different service levels. The internal rate of return using these
costs and benefits is 35%; decreasing benefits by 15% or increasing costs by
20% reduced the rate of return to 25%. In addition, the improvement and
maintenance of environmental conditions will yield substantial health benefits
which are not quantifiable.
Sites and Services
6.11      Costs included are the same as for upgrading: civil works, design
and supervision, physical contingencies, house construction loans, plus
one quarter of (a) Housing Bureau and municipal services costs; and (b) half
of technical assistance. Annual maintenance expenses were estimated at 3%
of capital costs. Benefits were estimated as the rental value of new housing
created applying observed rental levels for existing housing types to the
types of housing expected to be constructed by plot allottees. The cost
and benefit streams thus calculated yield an internal rate of return of 11%;
this falls to 9% if benefits are decreased by 15% or costs raised 20%. Because
the Kwijabe site development will supply only about 30% of the anticipated
demand by the target population for new units on new land over the project
period, but is likely to be the only new land serviced and made available to
this group at least in the initial years of the project, it is felt that
these benefits represent a net addition to permanent housing stock. No
adjustment was therefore made for the value of housing that would otherwise
have been constructed.
C. Distribution of Benefits and Poverty Impacts
6.12      Benefits from the project's upgrading investments, housing improve-
ment loans, and schools to be built and renovated in the upgrading area will
accrue to all 118,000 present residents of the six neighborhoods and Ngagara,
or about 18,000 households. The street maintenance and garbage collection



- 43 -
services will also benefit primarily the upgrading neighborhoods, as will
the management of the upgrading civil works and of loans in the upgrading
areas by the Project Unit and the Housing Bureau. Since 65% of the 104,500
residents in the six neighborhoods and 10% of the 13,500 in Ngagara have
household incomes falling below the poverty threshold ($174 per household per
month in 1979 prices), 69,300 persons or 11,000 households will benefit
directly from the project, which is all of the city's poor less those living
in Musaga or 92% of the urban poor.
6.13      An additional 4,700 persons will benefit directly from the Kwijabe
development and related investments. It is estimated on the basis of planned
allocation of plots and housing loans that about 78% of these (3,810 persons or
605 households) will be poor.
6.14      Assuming the incidence of poverty remains the same throughout the
project period, about 15,000 of the 16,000 poor households in Bujumbura in
1984 will have received direct benefits from upgrading and sites and services
investments. The full city population, estimated at 185,000 by 1984, would
benefit from operations of the Technical Services Department and Collection
Bureau established by the project. Seventy percent of total project cost
will create direct benefits to the urban poverty group.
D. Constraints, Limitations, and Risks
6.15      The major areas of risk facing the project concern (a) proposed
institutional arrangements reflecting the need for close coordination among
executing agencies and a greatly expanded role for the Municipality of
Bujumbura, and (b) the field performance of cost recovery mechanisms. How-
ever, these risks are considered worth taking in view of the attention given
within the project to maintenance and institutional reform, the affordability
of design standards in upgrading and sites and services, and the Government's
expressed commitment to these initiatives as a basis for further programs.
6.16      To help ensure efficient project management, the Project Unit would
report directly to the Minister of Public Works and would supervise all civil
construction within the project in addition to artisan promotion, energy
assistance, and other proposed programs. For maximum program cohesiveness, all
technical advisors would be recruited through the Project Unit and seconded to
the Housing Bureau and other institutions to be created or strengthened.
Along with the municipal Collection Bureau, effective operation of the Housing
Bureau is essential to cost recovery and replicability and will require close
contact with the local community. Retaining a balance between efficient
project management on the one hand and building up institutional capacity to
continue these programs on the other will be a central concern during project
execution.



- 44 -
6.17      In a context where non-payment for public services is widespread,
the introduction of plot charges and taxes is inevitably subject to risk.
Failure to collect the urban tax, projected to account for 80% of all city
revenues by 1990, would in particular jeopardize the Municipality's ability
to sustain ongoing programs and meet debt service obligations. However, the
cost recovery provisions of this project have been designed so as to minimize
the risk of non-payment. Project resources would be deployed to strengthen
the Collection Bureau's capacity to recover payments from beneficiaries.
Support would include the purchase of office furniture and furnishings, light
vehicles, a tabulating machine, and technical assistance to help define and
organize the activities of the Bureau. Second, specific recommendations were
made during preparation and appraisal on the details of collection procedures.
For example, it was felt essential that residents become liable for paynents
at roughly the same time as they benefit from project improvements. Close
association in people's minds between benefits received and the necessity for
payment has been shown in other countries to be an important reason for satis-
factory performance in recovering costs. Finally, a retrospective look at
cost recovery in the context of this project would be afforded by one of the
two evaluation studies to be conducted by the Project Unit (see para. 4.29).
VII.  SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND CREDIT CONDITIONS
7.01      During credit negotiations, assurances and confirmation of agree-
ments were obtained that:
(a)  the necessary counterpart funds would be made available to the
participating agencies, and that these agencies would invest
the funds and recover the costs as described in this report
(paras. 3.03, 4.24);
(b)  proceeds of the IDA credit would be on-lent to the Municipality
of Bujumbura on terms satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.04);
(c)  participating agencies would adequately staff the facilities
under their control during the life of the project (paras.
4.04 - 4.10);
(d)  on behalf of the Project Unit, the Collection Bureau would
recover the costs of:
(i) allocable civil works investments in upgrading areas
and Kwijabe from plot charges (para. 5.03);
(ii) house construction and improvement loans and artisan
credits through loan repayments (para. 5.04);
(iii) improvements in municipal maintenance and garbage
collection through a new urban tax (para. 5.06);



- 45 -
(e) lot sizes, service standards, tenure conditions, establish-
ment of household selection and lot allocation criteria, and
terms and conditions of lot sales and house consolidation at
the Kwijabe site would be as described in this report, anrc
any change would be subject to agreement between the Government
and IDA (paras. 2.12 - 2.14, 4.12 - 4.15);
(f) financial statements and audit reports for each executing agency,
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, would be
submitted to IDA no later than eight months after the close of
each Government financial year (para. 4.27);
(g) vehicles, equipment, materials, and manpower for maintenance and
garbage collection in the project areas would be used for the
purposes described in this report, and any change would be subject
to prior agreement between the Government and IDA (paras. 4.20 -
4.23). The Municipality would manage and maintain the garbage
disposal site at Buterere (para. 4.23);
(h) training facilities of the Public Works training centers at
Gitega and Bujumbura would be made available as indicated in the
report to train project staff (para. 2.29);
(i) the municipality would pay Regideso for water and electricity
consumption according to the regular billing schedule of Regideso
(para. 5.16);
(j) the Government would undertake a study of its urban housing
policies with a view to recommending alternative means of in-
creasing the supply of urban housing (para. 1.27).
7.02      As conditions of credit effectiveness it is proposed that
(a) the subsidiary credit agreement between the Government and the
Municipality of Bujumbura should be signed (para. 3.04); and
(b) counterpart funds in the amount of FBu 25 million (US$280,000
equivalent) from the FY 1980 budget be placed in a revolving
fund at the beginning of the project (para 3.05).
7.03      With the assurances and conditions indicated above, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$15 million equivalent to the Government of
Burundi.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
BURUNDI
URBAN D     OEVELOPMT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Neighborhood Upgrading
('000 FBu)
Street Improvements               Drainage                Water SUPPlY           Electricity/Public Lighting
Neighborhood            On-Site         Off-site        On-site   Off-site                                  On-site             Off-site
Buyenzi                 14,650          2,410             -           -                3,934                  -                  1,200
Bviza                    18,930           -             4,595         -                2,736                  3,785                800
Nyakabiga                 4,935           -            12,300       2,950             1,710                   -                   -
Cibitoke                11,700          1,020          21,675      14,450              -                     12,350              2,555
Kamenge                   8,200           -             8,290       3,850             2,565                  1,310               5,520
Kinasma                  11,400           -             8,445      15,590              -                    12,115               5,725
lgagara                    -              -              -           -                  -                       910               -
Sub-total             69,815          3,430          55,305      36,840                                   30,470              15,800
Total                        73,245                      92,145                    10,945                         46,270
of which:
Foreign exchange             51,270 (70%)                46,072 (50%)               6,567 (60%)                   32,390 (70%)
Local currency               21,975 (30%)                46,073 (50%)               4,378 (40%)                  13,880 (30%)



- 47 -                                       ANNEX 1
Table 2
BURUNDI.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Kwijabe Sites and Services
Total          Of which:
Cost        For.        Local
('000 FBu)     Exch.       Currency
A. On-Site
Site preparation/filling/               15,840         11,880       3,96o
clearing                                               (75%)        (25%)
Staking                                  4,600          3,450       1,150
(75%)      (25%)
Tree planting                               310           230          80
(75%)      (25%)
Sub-total. site preparation           20,750
Street improvements                      4,680          3,28o       1,40o0
(70%)      (30%)
Drainage                                 9,650          >4,825      4,825
(50%)      (50%)
Water Supply                              8,930         6,250       2,68o
(70%)      (30%)
Electricity/Public lighting              5,350          4;280o      1,070
(80%)      (20%)
Sub-total,on-site                     49,360         3(4,195    15,165
(69%)      (31%)
B. Off-Site
Drainage                                 7,910          3,955       3,955
(50%)      (50%)
Water Supply                              5,960         >4,170      1,790
(70%)      (30%)
Electricity/public lighting             11,000          8,80o       2,200
(80%)      (20%)
Sub-total,off-site                    24,870         16,925      7,9345
(68%)      (32%)
Totals:
Site Preparation                      20,750
Street Improvements                    4,680
Drainage                              17,560
Water Supply                          14,890
Electricity/Public Lighting           16,350
Grand Total                        74,230



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
BURUNDI                             Table 3
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Artisan Promotion Program
Unit
Cost                   Total Cost
Element                          ('OOOFBu)    Quantity    ('000 FBu)
A. Training Units
1. Materials and Equipment
a. Office furniture and
furnishings                                                 1,150
b. Office supplies                                                275
c. 4-CV vehicles                       670            3         2,010
d. Light trucks                      1,100            2         2,200
e. Motorbikes                           90            5           450
f. Marketing and transport                                        650
assistance                                                  6,735
2. Energy Assistance: Improved
Stove Design
a. Technical assistance                                         3,135
(2 x 2 man-months)
b. Tools and materials                                            150
c. Fuel                                                           210
3,495
3. Personnel in Training
a. Director                            600       1 x 2 years   1,200
b. Technical trainers                  460       3 x 1.5 years -2,070
c. Trainer/promoters                   325       5 x 2 years   3,250
4. Fuel
--Vehicles   5 l/veh/day             0.074  4,500 1 x 2 years   650
--Motorbikes 2 l/veh/day             0.074  3,000 1 x 2 years   440
5. Vehicle Maintenance                                                500
6. Materials and Supplies                                             400
8,510
18,740
B. Artisan Credits
1. Equipment, materials, working
capital                                                      28,700
2. Installation (apprentices)                                      9,880
38,580



- 49 -
Detailed Cost Estimates                      ANNEX1
Community Facilities                        Table 4
As at July 1980
New School Construction
Unit Cost     Total Cost
Description                   Units     (FBu)        (mil.FBu)
2
Cibitoke              6 Classrooms                   396m2
6-Classroom School    Administration Block            60 m2
Toilet Block                    63m
519 m2      25,000/m2       13.0
;losed Workshop                220 m2      25,000/m2        5.5
Cjvered Workshop               220 m       16,667/m2        3.7
440 m2                       9.2
Infrastructure:  access,       20% of
grading, water and electric   construc-
connections, septic tank       tion
Subtotal - Cibitoke                                        26.6
Kinama/Kamenge        9 Classrooms                    594m2
9-Classroom School    Administration Block            60 m2
Toilet Block                    95 m
749 m2     25.000/m2       18.7
Closed Workshop                220m2      25,000/m2         5.5
Covered Workshop               220 m2     16,667/           3 7
440m2                        9.2
Infrastructure:  access,       20% of
grading, water and electric   construc-
connections, septic tank       tion                         5.6
Subtotal - Kinama/Kamenge                                  33.5
Kwijabe               9 Classrooms                    594 m2
9-Classroom School    Administration Block            60 m2
Toilet Block                    95m                2
749        25,000/m        18.7
Infrastructure:  access,       20% of
grading, water and electric   construc-
connections, septic tank       tion                         3.7
Subtotal - Kwijabe                                         2?.4
TOTAL - New School Construction                                                  82.5
Standards:  1.2 m /pupil, 50 pupils/classroom, plus 10% for circulation;
5 m /workshop place, 20 places x 4 sections = 80 places, plus
10% for circulation.



_ 50 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
BURUNDI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Municipal Services
Unit
Cost                     Total Cost
Element                          ('000 FBu)       Quantity   ('000 FBu)
A. TSD Headguarters Unit                             2
1. Construction                            27.5/m           784       21,560
2. Fence and preparation
of exterior                                                      2,200
3. Fuel pumps                           2,000                 2        4,000
4. Equipment, vehicles
and materials                                                   10,250
5. Personnel in training
- Director                            600            lx2 years      1,200
- Maintenance chief                   390            lx2 years        780
6. Fuel  5  l/veh/day x 4 veh          0.074            6,000 1 x        890
2 years
7. Vehicle maintenance and
spare parts                                                       750
Subtotal A                                                            41,630
B. Maintenance Streets and Drains
1. Materials and equipment
a. Motorgrader                      9,100                  1        9,100
b. Roller                           4,100                  1        4,100
c. Bulldozer                        9,100                  1        9,100
d. Dump trucks                      3,650                  3       10,950
e. Cistern trailer                    550                  1          550
f. Tools and equipment                                              1,800
35,600
2. Personnel in training
- Service Director                    450            lx2 years        900
3. Fuel (20 l/day/veh)                 0.074                           8,900
4. Maintenance and repair                                              6,200
Subtotal B                                                            51,600
C. Maintenance Public Buildings
1. Materials and equipment
a. 4-CV vehicles                      670                  6        4,020
b. Tools and equipment                                                550
2. Fuel  5 l/veh/day                   0.074            7,200 1 x      1,065
2 yeare
3. Vehicle maintenance                                                   820
4. Materials                                                           3,450
Subtotal C                                                             9,905
D. Garbage Collection
1. Materials and equipment
a. Trucks, 7 tons                   3,600                  6       21,600
b. Discharge points                                                 1,600
c. Staff equipment                                                    450
23,650
2. Fuel  20 l/veh/day                  0.074           36,000 1 x      5,330
3. Vehicle maintenance                                   2 years       4.000
Subtotal D                                                        32,980
E. Collection Bureau
1. Materials and equipment
a. Office furniture and
furnishings                                                   1,000
b. Tabulating machine                                                 500
c. Office supplies                                                    300
d. 4-CV vehicles                       670                 2        1,340
e. Motorbikes                           90                 3          270
3,410
2. Personnel in training
- Bureau Chief                         600           1 x 1 year       600
- Admin. Officer                      450            2 x 1 year       900
3. Fuel                                 0.074                            710
4. Vehicle maintenance                                                   300
Subtotai E                                                         5,920



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
< MEC CASd                                                                  Table 6
Total      1979       1980       1981       1982        1983      1984       1985      1986       1987      1988       1989      1990
SOURCES OF PUNDS
1. IDA Credit                           1,333.3       32.0      31.2       264.7      444.0       348.1     213.3
2.  .over.erot Gouot-rpart                150.1        3.2       2.5        25.2       44.9        45.0      29.3
3. Plot Charges                                                                         3.6        13.4      26.8       33.8      33.8       33.8      33.8       33.8      33.8
4. Sale of Mar-et Plota                                                                 3.2         2.0
Loso Ropeyi..ots:
5. Hoosiog                                                                              2.7        12.8      25.6       35.2      36.1       36.1      36.1      36.1       36.1
6. Attisat Pro-otion                                                         0.08       0.7         2.6       5.7       8.7        9.0        9.0       9.0       9.0        9.0
7. Mooiîipality                                                                         0.45        5.3      14.5       25.3      29.3       29.7      29.7      29.7       29.7
Budget Allot-ti-os:
8. Housiog                                                       1.8         3.5        4.7         0.3
9. Arti..o Tra-ilig                                                          1.0        1.0         4.0       4.0       4.4        4.5       4.7        4.9       5.1        5.4
10. Projoot Unit                                                  0.6         1.4        1.7        2.6        2.7
Total - Sources                                       35.2      36.1       295.9      506.9       436.1     321.9      107.4     112.1      113.3     113.5      113.7     114.0
APPI,ICATION8 OF FUNDS
1. Drdign .ed O-aito Iofraatructuro
Upgraditg                             237.5                  8.8        52.6       81.5        94.6
Service Ploto                          72.9                  2.0        16.7        21.7       14.3      18.2
2. HNoue Coostrouotio
.o..itg Croditr                      255.7                             23.9        76.4       92.4       63.0
.lo.s.ig BRococ                        23.9                  4.3        20.5         9.9        7.2        7.7       7.9       8.3        8.7       9.2        9.6      10.1
3. Arti.ac  Crodito                        58.3                              2.7       11.1        20.0      24.5
4. Loean to Mcoitipclity                  182.6                             39.2       109.0       19.7      14.7
5. Off-alto Itfrcetrvooere                107.4                             44.7       52.9         9.8
6. Artisan Iroainig U0t                    25.2                             19.9        6,9         4.2       4.2       4.4        4.5       4.6        4.7       4.8        4.9
7. Counity Fecilities                     195.4                                        t5.3        66.9      73.2
8. Stodio                                 38.7       35.2       3.5
9. Projoot Matagenoot ..d
Tothilcal Aasiota.c.                  285.8                  17.5       75.6        82.i       75.5      44.2
Tot-l - Aroltosti.o.                    1,483.4       35.2      36.1       295.8      497.0       404.6     249.7       12.3      12.8       13.3      13.9      14.4       15.0
Sorpluî                                                                      0.1        9.9        31.5      72.2      95.1       99.9     100.0       99.6      99.3       99.0
C.ualativo Surplus                                                          0.2        10.0        41.5     113.7      208.8     308.7      408.7     508.3     607.6      706.6
G.orootos Fuoda
Roosiog Credita                                                                       0.8         3.8       8.0       10.5      10.8       10.8      10.8      10.8       10.8
Arti... Creditr                                                            0.02       0.1         0.5       1.1        1.7       1.8        1.8       1.8       1.8        1.8
Net Cu=,lativo S-rplos                                                      0.08        9.1       37.2      104.6     196.6      296.1     396.1      495.7      595.0    694.0



ANNEX 1
CASH FLOW, NMVNICIPALITY 0F BUJUIMBURA                                                                                                  Table 7
(project aspects)
(FBu million)
Total            198O            1981           1982            1983            1984            1985           1986            1987            1988            1989            1990
Sources of Funds
Investment Budget
1. Loan from account M
Technical Service Dept          53.5                               4,9            44.8           2.44             1.4
Maint. Stree.t                  66.2                                              46.83           8.48           10.89
Maint. Buildings                12.8                                               6.7           3.99             2.11
Solid Waste                     42.5                              28.68            9.03          4.79
Collection bureau                7.6                               6.96            0.64
Oneracine Budget
1.  Urban T7x receipts                                                 -             22.2          45.7             62.4            83.8            97.4           104.4         112.6            121.0            130.0
2.  Other Si                                                          0.6             8.5           18.3             19.8           21.1            22.8            24.4           25.5             28.2            30.5
Total Sources:                182,6                              41.14          138.7          83.7             96.6           104.9          120.2           128.8          138.1            149.2           160.5
Applications of Fonds
Investnent Budget
1.  Capital                       182.6                              40.54          108,0           19.7            14.4
2.  Repaysent of                                                                      0.5            5.31           14.5            25.3            29.3            29.7           29.7             29.7            29.7
subsidiary loan
(capital and interest)
Operating budget                                                                                                                                                                                                               B
1.  Technical services dept.                                                          1.7            3.4             4.5             5.1             5.9             6.1            6.4              6.7             7.0
2.  Maint. streets                                                                                 12.5             13.2            21.0            22.0            22.9           23.8             24.9            26.1
3. Maint. buildings                                                                                  4.5              4.7            5.9             6.2             6.4            6,7              7.0             7.4
4.  Solid Waste                                                                       3.7            3.9             8.7             9.0             9.4             9.5           10.2             10.7            11.2
5.  Collection bureau                                                 0.6             2.2            2.8           ' 2.9             3.0             3.1             3.2            3.4              3.6             3.8
6.  Water, electricity consumption                                                   16.5           23.9             25.6           27.2            28.4            28.6           30.8             32.2            33.8
7.  Public lighting                                                                   6.1            7,7             8.1             8.4             8.8             8.9            9.6             10.0            10.5
Total Applications                 182.6                             41.14          138.7          83.7             96.6           104.9           113.1           115.3           120.6           124.8           129.5
Surplus                                                            -               -             -                -               -              7.1           13.5            17.5            24.4            31.0
Cuoeulative surplus                                                                                                                              7.1           20.6            38.1            62.5            93.5
a/ Funds already reserved in 1979 municipal budget for operations covered under project.



BURUNDI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS,
EQUIPMENT, AND HOUSING, 1980
_                      _ ~~~~~~~~NATIONAL HOUSING OFFICE (ON L)
CAIE                                                                                             PUBLIC WORKS SCHOOL
M{NlsrER s CABINET  l          _ > ER                                 tV~~~~~~~~~URBAN BIDEVELOPMENT PROJECT UNIT
rEPARTMENT                       EPARTMENT               TECHNICAL DIRECTORATE           TECHNICAL DIRECRO RATE                   O                                 DF  O                OF BDINGS
F HOUSINO ANAI                  0F REGIONAL                   0F DESIGN AND                0F IMPLEMENTATION                 DIR STRATE ON                   EO * 
URBAN PLANNING                     PLANNING                      SUJPERFt VISiO|N                                                   A T                       AND C                           MAINTENANCE
|   Design      l   i        ~~~~~N.tion-I Ro d.      l       Pronl           nOinl                                 r          ehi-
S.P., Division                Ub-n Strt                     Admi-istrttion ld|
GlUtansion                   Fcr,.nr> O|it od                          w       |                                    |
!WorId d.nI-21 ISB



BURUNDI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1980                                   1981                                    1982                                   1983                                     1984
1. NEIGHBORHOOD UPORADINO       1    ~2             3         4        1          2        3         4         i          2        3         4         1         2         3         4          i         2         3         4
-Drainage...
- Water supply                     -.....                                                      -    -. 
-- Electricity &
Public Lightiflg                  ......___
2. SÉRVICEO) PLOTS
-Site preparation                               --                                                      
-Streets....
-Drainage                          ..-...
-Water Supply                                           -        
-Electricity &
Public Lîghting                  .....                               .          .     -              
3. HOUSE CONSTRUCTION
- Housing Credits                                                   4-
- Housing Bureau                                        -        
4. PROMOTION OP ARTISANS
- Trairning Units
- Artisan Credits
5. COMMUNITY FACILITIES
- Construction &
Renovation                                                                                   .......                        ~
6. MUNICIPAL SERVICES
- Technical Service Department
- Maintenance Streets & Buildings                                           --         - -        -          .                  
- Solid Wfaste Disposa                                                                           - l                     .     .-
-Collection Bureau                                                                              .       -         .                                         __
7. PROJECT MANAGEMENT &                                                                               -
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE--
World Bank -21244
...... ........final design
-      -------preparation vork
tendering
________________________construction, implennentation



- 55 -
Annex 2
BURUNDI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PRO JECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Background Reports
1.  République du Burundi - Plan quinquiennal de Developpement économique et
social 1978-82.
2.  Mise à jour du Plan Directeur de Bujumbura en relation avec le projet
de la Banque Mondiale - Arnaud et Guidi - 1979
3. Analyse et protection du site de Bujumbura - Corajoud et Picherot -
Jan. 1979
4. Enquête socio-économique de la ville de Bujumbura - Université du
Burundi - 1978-79.
5. Etude de l'habitat à Bujumbura - Bouda; UNDP/UNCDF - March 1979.
6.  Community upgrading for Musaga - FCH INTERNATIONAL/JUNE 1979
7. Avant-projet de développement: Zone Musaga - UNDP/UNiCDF June 1979
8. L'Homme et la Terre à Bujumbura - Description et Analyses des pratiques
foncières dans la capitale du Burundi - Barras; UNDP/UNDCF - Nov. 1979
9. The construction industry in the Republic of Burundi - UNIDO Mission
Report - Jan 1979
10. Burundi: Dossier Nutrition 1973 - Magos; FAO - 1973
B. Project Preparation Documents
1. Projet de Développement Urbain au Burundi: Note intermédiaire No. 1 -
URBAPLAN - May 1979
2. Projet de Développement Urbain au Burundi: Note intermédiaire No. 2 -
UIBAPLAN - June 1979
3. Projet de Développement Urbain au Burundi: Rapport Intermédiaire -
URBAPLAN - Aug. 1979
4. Projet de Développement Urbain au Burundi: Rapport Final -
URBAPLAN - Feb. 1980
5. Problèmes de Développement Urbain au Burundi - URBAPLAN/
MTPEL - June 1979
6. Projet de Développement Urbain au Burundi: Problèmes d'Infrastructure -
Lemaire/OTUI, IBRD Consultant - July 1978
7. R6le et Moyens Financiers de la Commune de Bujumbura - Valletoux
IBRD Consultant - April 1979
8. Les Structures et les Ressources Humaines du Projet - Nahmias/Arthur
t                Andersen and Co; IBRD Consultant - Dec. 1979
9. Aide-Mémoire Preappraisal Mission - Oct. 1979
10. Aide-Mémoire Appraisal Mission - Dec. 1979
C. Working Papers
1. Detailed cost estimates of project components
2. Financial analyses tables
3. Project component briefs
4. Terms of Reference of Technical Assistance
5. Study of Health and Education Aspects - S. Snell - Dec. 1979
6. Energy services in urbanization projects:
Burundi Urban Development Project: E. Mbi - Feb. 1980.






IERD 14704
BURUNDI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT EOCATIONS :;
SITE S SERVCE AREA
UPGRADING NEIGRORHOODAS
URSANJZED AREAS
'>   RADS                                        :                                 t @,(,N.< [] '" ,
-   BUIEERE                                -
fc,  se S   C                                                               GOBE=
t OXt 6Jt v7S 17 \ " . .ie,> ;, if r ttlbEvsÆrE e ~~MUfANGA
g i     =                   i tS                       ' 0 5,  '  ,   $   a         , ,ROHERo  {,,/;    ,     ,  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  ;  f
f  g  g       Ji           ~~~KABONDO.j                  -             4     ,att                            , 
X  .,y 7 t ( ; z w 2 t _ yV                                  _yf<              D   f .
X    ?   +ffit_.  . ç        |        :- ,.          fff/i
tA.? A`a   1S   ,;e  ,,  /,@                  ,                           .AUSAs
,, .LRtf      .                     f: f   






IBRD 14845
\5                                                                                                            IMPRr I<r.
\ / Étr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>  <4                                                                                                                                       c.
ICV) ME R'S 1 T A 1 R E                                                                      ERIE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
BURUNDI                                                           !<LA,                                                 â4i . AN,:, P                                                   4
URBAN DEV~~~ELPMRTAENT   PRJCTr'rSZP
Grcded~~~~a                                                                                 Io    d t /
coo    R PVE[tSt r
Kwjb   Srie             Plots  
Med-u   Teno .     n                                                          
- - LwTens,.n L n 
Pu,b Ic L,ght,ng  
*  Tronsformers                        rmETEpS °,     ~~~40    E0      120      160     2DO      74D     28cN\ 
D,o,nage C.cilctrYAD-  
Wcter Supply P0p5                                        0         56          I        168          i 22                                                                         \X
Il si.ndp,pes\
*  Gorbogie Co lct on P-rt, 
E   xsigPubhc F-cR ti., 






IBRD 14844
21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.   i   r  .  ;r @: lii~~~~~v. 
A~~~~~~~~~
*X                                                                                      <J   I ;            ts   Lo
A4                                                                                                        '4  JX![  r    r  »0 
k,~f        * gFX=n5    \   g      ;   X   5   t      q            |                                     Tih. s mp ik,  bee, P,eParc  ty thk
jf-05n.0Ni;71A:.                                                                                      BURUNDI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Upgrading Cibitoke, Karenge, Kinuma
and Ngagara  Neighborhooda
lrpro,,ed Streets
-Repoired Drainage Ditch
Nae. Drainage Ditch
Medînm Tension Lise
.Medium Tension Cable
o-sLowe Tension Lise ond Public Lighting
Garboge Collection PaNts
/ 5,  _ I025      00        0 75       Op m25              5 "
' '           o;o! =uS ;i \ tis 2  5 50       025      . 



