J~CIIAL     'CREDIT NUMBER 1049 BU
Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
MUNICIPALITY OF BUJUMBURA
Dated          AA   -   3, 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1049 BU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            -                 , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPME    A OCIATION   (hereinafter called the
Association) and MUNICI ALIT    OF BUJUMBURA (hereinafter called
Bujumbura).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between Republic of Burundi (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that Bujumbura agrees to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Bujumbura, a portion of the proceeds of
the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be relent to Bujumbura on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS Bujumbura, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part H of the Project
Section 2.01. Bujumbura shall carry out Part H of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate urban development, administrative, financial and engi-
neering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,


﻿promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) Bujumbura undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Bujumbura to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Bujumbura
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) Bujumbura shall furnish to the Project
Unit, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Part H of the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Project Unit shall reasonably request.
(b) Bujumbura shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part H of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Associa-
tion's and Project Unit's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in Part H of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the afore-
mentioned proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; (iii) cause a report or reports to be furnished to
the Project Unit within thirty calendar days after each calendar
quarter, of such scope and in such detail as the Project Unit
shall reasonably request on the progress of Part H of the Project
during such quarter; and (iv) furnish to the Project Unit at
regular intervals all such information as the Project Unit shall
reasonably request concerning Part H of the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than five months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Bujumbura
and the Project Unit, Bujumbura shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Project Unit shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of Part H of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
Bujumbura and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit with respect to Part H of the Project.
(d) On the reasonable request of the Association, Bujumbura
shall enable the Association's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of Bujumbura and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.04. Bujumbura shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion may otherwise agree, Bujumbura shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Bujumbura shall, at. the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of Part H of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) Bujumbura shall promptly inform the Association and the
Project Unit of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of Part H of the Project, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by
Bujumbura of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
Bujumbura shall, through the Collection Bureau and in accordance
with the terms of the Mayoral Decision, levy on and collect
from:
(a) the beneficiaries of on-site infrastructure development
under Parts A and B of the Project, such charges as shall fully


﻿-4-
recover the cost of such development within a period of twenty-
five years following an initial grace period of six months at a
rate of interest of 12% per annum;
(b) the recipients of artisan credits under Part D of
the Project, such monthly payments as are provided for in Annex 2
to Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(c) the recipients of building loans under Part E of the
Project, such monthly payments as are provided for in Annex 3 to
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement; and
(d) the beneficiaries of maintenance, solid waste collection
and cost recovery services supplied by Bujumbura (owners of
dwelling units within the territory of Bujumbura), such tax as
shall fully recover the cost of such services.
Section 2.07. Bujumbura shall enter into a loan agreement
with each recipient of a building loan under Part E of the Pro-
ject, in accordance with terms and conditions, including those
with respect to remedies for non-payment, acceptable to the
Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Bujumbura
Section 3.01. Bujumbura shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. Bujumbura shall cause each of the Housing
Bureau, the Collection Bureau and the Technical Department
to be operated under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, and
shall cause their respective buildings, equipment and other
facilities to be adequately maintained, and the necessary repairs
and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Bujumbura shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Part H of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of Bujumbura responsible for
carrying out Part H of the Project or any part thereof, in-
cluding without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
refledting all expenditures described in Category (8) of the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) Bujumbura shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
(c) Bujumbura shall have the separate accounts referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year made
available to the Project Unit for purposes of audit not more
than 45 days after the Project Unit has requested same from
Bujumbura.
Section 4.02. Bujumbura, through the Technical Department,
shall manage and maintain a solid waste disposal site of about
four hectares at Buterere in accordance with appropriate prac-
tices.
Section 4.03. Bujumbura shall pay within the delay specified
by the Borrower's Regie des Eaux et d'El'ctricite all dues
and charges owed thereto for water and electricity services
rendered by it to Bujumbura.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿-6-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Bujumbura thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Bujumbura of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
For Bujumbura:
Municipality of Bujumbura
B.P. 117
Bujumbura
Republic of Burundi
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINAFFEXT                           65 BUJA
Bujumbura
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under.
this Agreement on behalf of Bujumbura may be taken or executed by
the Mayor of Bujumbura or such other person or persons as the
Mayor of Bujumbura shall designate in writing, and Bujumbura
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /Yi        4W
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
MUNICIPALITY OF BUJUMBURA
By                                     A
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  &A        day of         ,
1980.
FOR SECRETARY


