Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9239
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
(LOAN 2135-EC)
DECEMBER 14, 1990
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restr.cted distribution and may be used by recipients only ia the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Glossary of Abbreviations
BEDE           -   Banco de Desarrollo del Ecuador
(Ecuadorian Development Bank)
BEV            -   Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda
(Ecuadorian Housing Bank)
GTZ            -   German Technical Assistance Agency
JNV            -   Junta Nacional de la Vivienda
(National Housing Board)
UIAT           -   Technical Support and Innovation Unit



TF WORLD SANK.                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Was"ton. DC. 20433
U.S A
-office of Diletnct-GeVl
Opewa:htia Ivalvattas
December 26, 1990
MEMORANDUd TO THE EXECJTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Ecuador
National Low-Income Housing Proiect (Loan 2135-EC)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Ecuador - National Low-Income Housing Project (Loan 2135-
EC)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part
II contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
The sacument Xa a inug dsMbutUm  ad MaY be Und by re man oesnly m Iu
Of t'her oflL dum. is emaanw maytNr notobtteim be dmld withut WoWd usk a*tt_n.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
(Loan 2135-EC)
Table of Contents
Page No
PREFACE .....................                                         i
EVALUATION SUMMWIARY.....................                          ii
PART I  : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSFCTIVE .......1
A.    Project Identity . .................................   1
B.    Project Background .     .    ..............................  1
C.    Project Objectives and Description         ....   2
D.    Project Design and Organization          ....   3
E.    Project Implementation . . ..........................5 
F.    Project Results ......................... .  .. .. .   7
G.    Project Sustainability .......................... . .    9
H.    Bank Performance            .............   9
I.    Borrower Performance . . ............................ 10
J.    Project Relationship .......................... .  10
K.    Consulting Services .    ............ ................. 11
L.    Project Documentation and Data           ....   11
PART II : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE........  12
A.    Project Design. . . . . ...... . . ...           ......  13
B.  Project Execution   .                 .14
C.    Evaluation of the Bank's Performance .14
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION         .....16
1.    Related Bank Loans .......................... .         16
2.    Project Timetable   ...      ........................   17
3.    Loan Disbursements            ...........................   18
4.    Project Implementation ..... ..        ............... .  20
5.    Project Costs and Financing .     . ..................... 21
6.    Project Results .    .     .........................    22
7.    Loan Covenants .       . .........................      24
8.    Use of Bank Resources . . .........................    26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT CONPLEtION REPORT
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
(Loan 2135-EC)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National Low-
Income Housing Project in Ecuador, for which Loan 2135-EC in the amount of
US$35.7 million was approved on May 4, 1982. The final loan closing was
June 30, 1988, one year behind schedule, and the last disbursement was in
July 1989. Total disbursements were US$33.7 million and US$1.9 million were
cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operations
Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region, Country Department
IV (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). Following the old
guidelines for preparation of Project Completion Reports (PCR), the
Borrower prepared a draft PCR in July 14, 1989, with detailed cost tables.
Subsequently, at the Bank's request, the Borrower prepared Part II of the
PCR.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in April 1988, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
(Loan 2135-EC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The most innovative aspect of the chapter on housing of the
1980-1984 National Development Plan in Ecuador was its emphasis on
increasing the supply of affordable housing for lower income groups while
minimizing public subsidies. The Bank's stLategy in the sector was to help
the Government develop policies and institutions to meet such objectives
improving the capacity of formal sector institutions to supply shelter for
the poor. With Bank support in the form of an Urban Development Project in
Guayaquil (Loan 1776-EC), the Government began considering development of
low-income housing a top priority, and gave BEV/JNV (Ecuadorian Housing
Bank/National  Housing  Board)   primary  responsibility  for  implementing
housing programs. The National Low-Cost Housing Project (Loan 2135-EC),
with the aim of continuing this process, became effective May 4, 1983.
Under its terms the Central Bank and BEV/JNV were responsible for
implementation.
Objectives
The principal objective of the project was to support the
Government's policy of providing housing affordable to low-income families
by strenghtening BEV/JNV %nd demonstrating several innovative approaches to
low-cost housing on a national scale.
I.plementation Experience
As a consequence of the combined effects of (a) Government changes
in the earliest stages of the project, (b) inadequate technical management
(c) protracted bureaucratic procedures, and (d) natural disasters, project
implementation was adversely affected (paras 12-13).
Results
The project has succeeded in demonstrating the feasibility of low-
cost shelter alternatives and introducing concepts of affordable standards,
cost recovery, and replicability criteria into publicly-supported housing
programs. It provided BEV/JNV technical assistance for improving its
operational efficiency and implementing appropriate savings and financing
mechanisms consistent with beneficiary conditions (paras 23-25). It also
generated a positive spinoff effect in that the main objective of the
follow-up project (Loan 2898) was to assist BEV/JNV in building on the
achievements and expanding the goals established under this project.
Sustainability
BEV/JNV's improved  performance  during  the  later  stages of the
project suggests a general level of success in maintaining financial



- iii -
viability and expanding institutional capacity (para 30). The project has
succeeded in its innovative approach to bringing building codes down to
more realistic levels, demonstrating the technical and financial viability
of low-cost housing solutions tiat could be implemented by both public and
private developers (para 31).
Finding and Lessons Learned
The core stated objective of the project was to demonstrate the
feasibility of providing the poor with adequate housing and basic urban
services. This was successfully achieved through the establishing of
criteria and standards for selection and design of basic low-income family
houses, while at the same time setting the stage for the introduction,
under the follow-up Project, of innovative financing solutions including
development of a long-term mortgage instrument which should ensure sound
financial performance of BEV as well as shelter affordability.
The clarity of project rationale was exemplified by its successful
execution despite the difficulties confronted at the beginning. This
underlines the importance of: (i) providing adequate and close supervision
and timely and appropriate recommendations at all levels; (ii) applying
lessons from one project to the design of the next; and (iii) continuing
both technical and financial assistance to BEV/JNV to consolidate gains
made under this project and also to expand upon its ac!-ievements.
On the other hand, the project's imolementation delays indicate
the overriding importance of ensuring: (i) further strengthening of the
financial, administrative and productive efficiency of B!V/JNV (para 36);
(ii)  appropriate  institutional   and   operational   systems  to  improve
implementation capacity; and (iii) participation in project preparation and
design on the part of those who will implement it.



ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
(LOAN 2135-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Project Name       National Low-Income Housing ProJect
Loan Number        2135-EC
RVP Unit           LA4 - Infrastructure and Energy Division (LA4IE)
Country            Ecuador
Sector             Urban
Subsector          Housing
B. Project Background
1.         Sector  Development  Objectives.    Ecuador has made substantial
efforts to meet the growing requirements for urban housing during tile past
twenty years. To demonstrate the feasibility of providing the poor with
more adequate housing and basic urban services, the Bank helped the
Municipality in the preparation of the Guayaquil Urban Development Project
during 1978 and 1979 (Loan 1776-EC), and agreed to finance a study of the
feasibility of a more ambitious program through the Second Technical
Assistance Loan (S-006-EC).    With  the  inauguration  of a new Government
Administration in August 1979, urban development and housing policies at
the national level were sharply reoriented to benefit lower income people.
At the  same  time,  implicit  and  explicit  subsidies  that were formerly
channelled into housing were reviewed more closely with the aim of
rationalizing them. The activities ef all the institutions involved in the
sector were to be somewhat reoriented and designed to support the
simultaneous shift of Government shelter policy to be more equity-based and
on a more  solid  financial  basis.    It  also  called  for an increase in
construction of  more  affordable  homes.    As  a  result,  the Government
initiated several programs to meet the shelter needs of the poor. Concepts
and technologies which had been included on a demonstration basis in the
Guayaquil Urban Development Project were now announced as national policy.
Consequently, the Bank decided to support the cnange by identifying a
project on the national level almost entirely limited to the strongest
institutions in the sector (BEV/JNV) and to the simplest component (new
housing).
2.       Policy Context.  Ecuador's  urban  population of about 3.8 million
at the time of appraisal (1981)--442 of the country's total population--has
more than tripled  over  the  last  30  years.    Its then rapid population
growth, with an annual growth rate of 3.42 (now about 2.9Z), and rural.
migration brought the urban population growth rate to 4.5Z. About 45,000
new households  are  formed  annually.    The  overall  housing  deficit is
estimated at about 430,000 units. In the absence of corrective measures by



the turn of the century, 9 million people will be living in urban areas.
Such urban growth will place a formidable burden on Ecuador's siystems for
providing shelter and urban services.
3.       Linkages Between  Project,  Sector  and  Macro  Policy Objectives.
Although links were not explicitly described in project documentation, the
project  concept  fit  well  into  the  Government's  strategy  of pursuing
economic development by fostering a climate favorable to private investment
ana improving the living conditions of the lower-income segments of the
population.   On  the  other  hand,  it  supported  the  Bank's strategy of
creating a better physical and social infrastructure base, strengthening
implementation agencies, and improving living conditions for the urban and
rural pour.
C. Project Objectives and Description
4.       Project Objectives.  The project was designed to initiate a large-
scale residential development for low-income families at the national
level, directly benefiting approximately 14,800 families in Quito the
capital of Ecuador,  and  nine  secondary  cities.    About  SOZ of project
investments were expected to benefit disectly families with incomes below
the absolute poverty level; in fact, most of the estimated 81,000
beneficiaries were individuals who had previously not owned housing. Its
prime institutional and policy development objectives were to: (a) support
the Government's policy of providing affordable housing to low-income
families; (b) strengthen the institutional, technical, and financial
capabilities of BEV (Ecuadorian Housing Bank) and JNV (National Housing
Board), and support reorientation of their programs toward lower-income
clients; and (c) support the expansion of low-income housing programs in
Ecuador's secondary cities.
5.       PLoject Description.    The  Guayaquil  Urban  Development Project
(Loan 1776-EC) began a process aimed at presenting the Government with low-
cost shelter alternatives and reorienting the basic approach for shelter
investment. The second project (Loan 2135-EC) had a more direct focus on
the operations of BEV/JNV and was designed to achieve greater institutional
and operational reforms in these agencies while at the same time focussing
on low-income beneficiaries and cost-recovery policies. These objectives
were further expanded and consolidated through Loan 2898-EC (Second
National Low-Income Housing Project) in an effort to continue the process
of rationalizing the public housing investment program by providing
appropriate   solations   consistent   with   maximum   cost-recovery   and
replicability criteria.
6.       Project Components.  The project included four major components:
(a) New housing (approximately  602  of  total project costs--US$100.4
million),  through  the   provision   of   about  8,200  shelters,
comprising service-d lots  and  two  types  of basic housing units,
together with basic infrastructure, in the ten project cities;
(b) Urban upgrading (approximately 52 of total project costs), through
the provision of  legal  land  tenure  and basic infrastructure to



some 2,400 households in existing low-income settlements in
Machala and other cities;
(c) Community facilities (about 8Z of total costs), providing a total
of 10 schools, 7 health centers, 9 day-care centers, 14 community
centers, and one police station in the areas benefiting from the
project. Planning for these facilities were coordinated with the
sectoral planning agencies:
(d) Home improvement loans (about 20Z of total costs), designed to
provide about 7,500 small loans--from a minimum of about US$170 to
a maximum of about US$3,300--to residents of identified low-income
areas. These loans were supposed to be at BEV's standard interest
rate (152) and most would have a 5-year term. Beneficiaries would
utilize these loans to build new houses on the serviced lots
provided under the new housing component or to make improvements
in existing houses in established low-income neighborhoods;
(e) The project also included funds for project management (7? of
total costs) i.e., salaries and equipment, and some technical
assistance (2Z) of total costs) for the implementing institutions,
i.e.,  consulting   services,   training,   and   improvements  of
information systems.
Amendments:
(f) In December 11, 1984, the Bank agreed to expand the scope of the
project to include subloans for housing and reconstruction work
for about 5,500 families affected by floods. Originally covering
10 cities, the project was expanded to encompass 15 cities plus
adjoining townships.
Cg) To assist in the reconstruction and rehabilitation of residential
houses and municipal buildings damaged by the 1987 earthquakes in
Ecuador, an amendment to the legal agreements was approved in
August 31, 1987. The reconstruction program represented about 14X
of the total loan (US$5  million).   The new components comprised:
(a) reconstruction and rehabilitation of municipal buildings in
the towns of Quijos, Chaco, and Borja; (b) reconstruction and
rehabilitation of residential houses in the provinces of Napo,
Pichincha, Imbabura, Carchi, and Pastaza, including extending
grants and subloans and technical assistance to beneficiaries.
D. Project Design and Organization
7.       Based on the  information  available  to  the appraisal mission of
April 1982, the Bank was fully aware of the importance of limiting the
institutional scope of the project to the strongest institutions in the
sector (BEV/JNV), and to. the simplest, most advanced component (new
housing), which with the institutions already had considerable experience.
At appraisal, the proposed project was kept administratively simple to
avoid initial delays during the finalization of legal agreements such as



the Guayaquil  project  (Loan  1776-EC)  had  suffered.    Also,  while the
Guayaquil project was prepared in seven months, with major inputs from Bank
staff, the National project was prepared by the executing institutions over
a period of 15 months (between March 1980 and July 1981). Although
institutional development was considered among the important aspects of the
project,  BEV/JNV  were  cvaluated   as  strong  enough  institutions  both
technically and  administratively,  to  implement  it.    The  most serious
deficiencies  identified  at  appraisal   were:  (a)  JNV's  capability  to
implement the relatively new approaches to low-cost housing the project
involved  (self-help  construction,  home   improvement  loans,  and  urban
upgrading); and (b) BEV's  reorientation  to  serve  the  ?oor could have a
negative impact on its ability to attract saving from middle-income
families and at the same time confront some difficulties in collecting from
low-income borrowers.l
8.       The physical components of the  project  were to be implemented by
JNV, while the financial aspects were handled by BEV.
9.       The appraisal mission acknowledged  three  main weaknesses in both
institutions: (a) inadequate planning; (b) lack of coordination; and (c)
inadequate implementation of their policy-making role--especially true of
JNV, which had difficulty fulfilling its anticipated role of setting
national housing policy.    However,  the  mission  considered the measures
being implemented to overcome such difficulties as appropriate, which then
were to be reinforced during project execution.
10.      The project had a somewhat innovative approach in terms of its aim
to demonstrate the feasibility of low-cost housing solutions that could
later be replicated by both public  and private developers. The new housir;
component  had  maximum   cost   limits   and  also  included  income-level
requirements designed to ensure that low-income beneficiaries fell between
the 20th and 50th percentile of household income distribution. The credits
for home improvement were open to all residents below the 50th percentile
income level, and they had limits of SI. 180,000 and SI. 360,000 (US$1,200
and US$2,400) for signature and mortgage loans, respectively. In terms of
a.hievements, Loan 1776-EC was  instrumental  in  getting the Government to
ccept appropriate reductions in norms and standarus for low-income
beneficiaries and began the process of focussing on cost recovery and
institutional reforms. Loan 2135-EC continued the process by focussing on
BEV/JNV. At the same time, it was expected that BEV would be able to
support a future reorientation of the savings and loan associations while
JNV would in future assume some role in strengthening municipalities of the
secondary cities.   The  Second  National  Low-Income Housing Project (Loan
2898-EC), continued the process by focussing on BEV/JNV's entire operations
and developing some of their innovative approaches, including other lending
agencies and private developers.
1/ A technical support unit was established in 1984 for BEV/JNV with the
help of  the  German  Technical  Assistance  Agency  (GTZ).   This unit
coordinated technical cooper&tion activities funded by the Bank and
USAID as well. A gradual improvement of BEV/JNV over the subsequent
five years was expected to result.



11.      Interest Rates. During preparation  and appraisal, it became clear
that BEV's financial position was in danger of deteriorating unless the
interest rates it charged on its loans (then 7 to 22 percent) were raised.
BEV's administration demonstrated at that time that It was commiLted to a
policy of full cost recovery by raising interest rates to 15 percent, then
the prevailing rate of inflation. This new rate compared favorably to the
rate of interest it paid its borrowers (9 percent), and was considered by
the Bank to be an appropriate basis to go ahead with the loan. While it was
expected at that time that the inflation rate would continue to be stable
at about 15 percent, BEV and the Bank agreed on an annual review of
interest rates, with adjustments as needed, so as to ensure a financial
return of credit operations and housing sales which would be "not negative"
in real terms. The Bank and BEV did not, however, anticipate the important
increases in inflation experienced over the life of the project which
eventually required development of new financial instruments (paras 28 and
29).
E. Project Implementation
1Z.      The project was originally  to  be  implemented  over a four and a
half year period from early 1982 to June 30, 1986, and the proposed closing
date for the Loan (amounting to US$35.7 million) was June 30, 1987;
however, the implementation process experienced a number of delays that
extended the closing date by one year to June 30 1988.
13.      Project implementation  was  adversely  affected  by  factors both
exogenous  and  endogenous   to   BEV/JNV.         The  former  included:  (a)
institutional changes in the earliest stages of the project; (b) protracted
national procurement procedures; (c) floods in the winter of 1982/1983, and
earthquake damages in 1987; (d) delays by local municipalities in approving
infrastructure designs; and (e) some delays in land acquisition. Among the
endogenous factors were: (a) lack of coordination between BEV and JNV; (b)
delays in the production of adequate final designs by JNV; (c) protracted
bureaucratic procedures within BEV/JNV, particularly for the hiring of
consultants; and (d) inadequate technical management of the project.
14.      Although Loan 2135-EC  was  approved  on  May  4, 1982, and signed
December 9, 1982, it only became effective on May 26, 1983, due to delays
in compliance with three important covenants in the Loan and Project
Agreements requiring that: (a) by December 31, 1982, BEV furnish the Bank
with a draft statement of financial policy to be adopted by BEV's Board by
March 31, 1983; (b) JNV and BEV enter into agreements to define the
functions, responsibilities, and procedures in the implementation of the
project; and (c) JNV provide the Bank with a report on its construction
program for the project period and an evaluation of sites for construction
of new houses under the project (Part III, Table 7).
15.      Several deficiencies in project  planning  and management and more
specifically, lack of coordination within the rousing sector persisted
until changes were made in BEV's managerial hierarchy in 1985. JNV's
bottleneck  in  the   technical   decision-making,   which  caused  serious
difficulties in project implementation, was solved by the middle of 1985



-6-
with the appointment of a Project Manager and a Senior Planning Assistant,
in compliance with section 3.07 of the Loan Covenants (Part III, Table 7).
16.      During December 1984, the Bank  agreed  to expand the scope of the
project to include subloans to beneficiaries in areas affected by floods
(para 6.f). The project area was further expanded by an amendment made in
July 1987 to address earthquake damage in Ecuador that occurred March 5 and
6, 1987 (para 6.g). At that time, the closing date for components related
to earthquake reconstruction works was extended to June 1988.
17.      By January 1988 all scheduled works of the loan were underway, but
the needs of the earthquake reconstruction project and unseasonal rains in
the project areas caused some implementation delays for BEV. Consequently,
it had about US$5.5 million in loan funds undisbursed. Because of delays
in the development of a new mortgage system to be used for the emergency
component, the conditions of Loan 2135-EC had to be adjusted to suit the
special circumstances of these beneficiaries2 a one-year extension of the
non-earthquake  reconstruction  components   (i.e.,   new  units  and  home
improvement loans) was requested and obtained by BEV. This result was a
common closing date for the entire loan instead of an existing partial
extension of the reconstruction components only.
18.      Interinstitutional Coordination.   Interinstitutional coordination
was  the   responsibility   of   BEVIJNV,   which   also   aasumed  overall
implementation coordination for reconstruction and rehabilitation works,
which were expected to be completed by December 31, '988. BEV managed the
housing reconstruction activities while JNV had primary responsibility for
the municipal  reconstruction  works.    Emergency  works  in the municipal
building  -ere  never  implemented   because  BEVIJNV  could  not  finalize
agreement with the local authorities.
19.      At the time of the earthquake, the Government was facing financial
constraints which were aggravated by the destruction of the petroleum
pipeline. BEV's major sources of funds were saving deposits (332) and
retained earning (34Z), but its rapid growth during the 1970s also depended
on generous transfers from the Government's petroleum revenues. After
Government transfers were reduced, BEV had to finance continued growth by
borrowing, and the need for full cost recovery became more pressing and
obvious.
20.      New Housing and Urban  Upgrading.    By  the  end  of 1987, 812 of
programmed  investment  was   executed.         Notwithstanding  some  initial
difficulties with the Urban Upgrading component, new housing and urban
2/ The proposed reconstruction component was to serve a generally poorer
segment of  the  population  than  the  original  project.   Therefore,
management approval was sought to reduce the interest rate (that
evolved from 152 at appraisal to 182 in 1985, and again to 192 between
1986/87) for needy beneficitries from 192 to 9Z. However, this was not
approved because it was believed that NGO's were dealing with needy
cases and interest-rate subsidies should not be supported by the Bank.



upgrading  were  successful   elements   in   the   project   in  terms  of
implementation.
21.      Housing Improvement Loans.  Housing  improvement loans were a very
successful  element  in  the  project  that  benefitted  from  the previous
experience of BEV  through  Loan  1776-EC.    Ninety-seven percent of total
investment was completed in December 1987.
22.      Community Facilities.  As  in  a  previous operation, (i.e., Urban
Development Project in Guayaquil, Loan 1776-EC), the schools and health
centers components were not implemented due to lack of funds by the
respective Ministries. Both the Ministry of Education and Health faced
serious budgetary constraints that prevented them from financing that area
of the project a.s it had been initially contemplated. Consequently,
BEVIJNV agreed to lend the funds out of its own resources to the respective
Ministries for these works. On June 3, 1986, BEV approved a loan of S/. 63
million to the Ministry of Education for the construction of 11 schools.
By December 1988, however, both this works and the health centers were
still in the negotiation process.
F. Project Results
23.      The project succeeded in  strengthening the managerial and overall
organizational capabilities of BEV/JNV.   Both institutions increased their
efficiency during the implementation process; it is expected that this
institutional   revitalization   will   be   enhanced   thrcugh   different
organizational commitments.   There  were  however certain internal control
weaknesses  in   BEV,   particularly   in   the   areas   of  coordination,
communications, and planning, which were corrected through institutional
reforms by the end of 1984.
24.      The new-housing component proved to  be one of the most successful
components together with the  home  improvement  loans.   Both of them were
efficiently implemented, with only minor delays after changes in BEV
management in 1985, when project expenditures almost tripled compared to
1984.3
25.      The project had  a  positive  spinoff  effect  in that new housing
operations were implemented within BEV's investment program. In addition,
these operations complement prcspective systemwide housing finance measures
such as increased savings mobilization and mortgage loan instruments better
adapted to high and variable inflation.
26.      Pro3ect Costs and Financing.  As a result of implementation delays
and much higher local inflation than forecast at appraisal, project costs
in local currency terms rose to about twice original estimates. This
represented about twice the originally estimated counterpart funding
requirement (in local currency terms) and would have imposed a considerable
burden on the fiscal resources at a time of budgetary austerity, since BEV
would have been unable to fund such a cost increase from its internal
resources. As a consequence of this local cost overrun, the Bank agreed to
3/ By mid-1985, the project was almost two years behind schedule.



-8-
consequence of this local cost overrun, the Bank agreed to increase its
percentage participation in the project, effective July 1, 1985, from about
352 to about 602 of tocal costs, and to finance under the project
additional  selected  expenditures   by   BEV/JNV   to  facilitate  project
execution. This amendment did not increase the total amount of the loan.
In addition, the Bank agreed to extend the dates for compliance of several
Loan  covenants  (Part  III,   Table   7).        Increased  cost-sharing  was
accomplished by raising the disbursement ratio for civil works, home
improvement loans, and local expenditures for services and equipment from
42X to 602.
27.      BEV's major source of counterpart  funds was BEDE, the Development
Bank, and no major difficulties were experienced. BEV's access to funding
improved from 1986.    It  negotiated  a  budgetary  allocation  of SI. 7.3
billion (US$68 million), which represented nearly a fivefold increase
comparpd to 1985. Despite heightened austerity in Ecuador due to low oil
prices, BEV did not have counterpart funding difficulty, since housing
remained a high priority.
28.      During project implementation, interest rates were adjusted twice,
but not sufficiently to meet the levels oi inflation experienced over the
period. The inflation rate surged in 1983 to 48 percent, coinciding with
the collapse of oil prices and the beginning of the debt crisis, then
declined to 30 percent in 1984. In 1985, interest rates charge on BEV's
loans were increased to 18 percent (inflation was 28 percent); the interest
rate prevailing in 1986 and 1987 was 19 percent, as compared to inflation
of 23 percent and 30 percent in those years. During this period, BEV's
lending rates were, however, more closely linked to the rates paid to BEV's
depositors. In 1987, for example, BEV paid 21 percent on saving deposits.
29.      During the course of  project  implementation,  it became clear to
the Bank, BEV and the Government that the current system of fixed-rate
mortgages  was  no  longer   appropriate,  and  that  innovative  financing
solutions would be required to prevent further erosion of the real value of
BEV's portfolio while ensuring shelter affordability. Focus shifted to
development of a long-term mortgage instrument bearing market-related
variable interest rates and featuring partial capitalization of interest.
Introduction of this instrument was a main feature of the follow-up project
now under execution, the Second Low-Income Housing Project (Loan 2898-EC).
30.      Overall, BEV's performance  reflected  good managerial procedures.
Delinquency in mortgage loans waa about 4Z; however, signature loans showed
a much higher delinquency  rate  (10%).    Because    of an increase in the
minimum salary, the limits on the maximum sales prices were subsequently
raised.4 Consequently, BEV exceeded the affordability target in Quito by
about 382 (78% of the shelters were in the lower range instead of the 40?
defined at appraisal).
4/  Maximum sales prices  were  defined  to  meet the affordability targets
according to monthly family income  level.    House pricing, as per the
ApDraisal  Report  and  Loan  Agreement,  was  based  on  cost  with no
subsidies.



-9-
G. Project Sustainability
31.      The  new-housing  component  reached  its  objectives establishing
criteria and standards for selection and design of basic low-income family
houses. This was an opportunity for BEV/JNV to consolidate lessons learned
from the past as well as to improve their planning and implementation
capabilities in dealing with large-scale housing programs.
32.      Cost recovery was estimated  as  seven  points  lower than the 90?
foreseen at appraisal. The ex-ante overall rate of return for the three
main components of the project with quantifiable benefits was 18? and for
each of them separately: 17? for new housing, 21? for home improvement
loans, and 41? for urban upgrading; whereas BEV's ex-post EER was 20?
assuming the number of beneficiaries as a function of the total number of
housing finished between 1985 and 1987 (Part !II, Table 6B).
33.      Insofar as the project has succeeded in its innovative approach to
low-cost housing, bringing building codes down to more realistic levels,
while at the same time strengthening BEV/JNV management and organization.
The  next  step   should   be   to   consolidate  BEV/JNV's  reorientation,
strengthening  their  potential  to   become  the  central  institution  in
supporting the reorientation of the savings and loan associations. Loan
2898-EC, the Second National Low-Income Housing Project, through its
Technical Assistance component, was expected to address this issue.
34.      Both the Ministry of Public  Health  and the Ministry of Education
showed certain weaknesses in implementing the community component, and had
difficulty  promoting   sustainable   policies   to   ensure  construction,
operation, and maintenance of community facilities included in the project.
B. Bank Performance
35.      Project targets were  overambitious  in  some  respects, given the
organizational difficulties of project institutions, particularly during
the first half -of the implementation process: final designs were not
available on time or offered inadequate and erroneous solutions, which
required redesigns and  site  adjustments.    From  this  point of view the
appraisal  estimation   of   implementation   deadlines   was  unrealistic.
Modification to the Loan and Project Agreement aimed at improving BEV/JNV's
implementation capacity had to be introduced.
36.      Insufficient attention was  given  at  appraisal to diagnosing the
financial difficulties of the Ministries of Education and Health, which led
to unsuccessful results in the completion of the community facilities
component. Given the past experience of the Bank in dealing with this
particular problem (i.e., Loan 1776-EC), implementation and financial
constraints on the part of these Ministries could have been foreseen at
appraisal.
37.      Notwithstanding the difficulties  confronted  at  the beginning in
the execution and managerial procedures, the Bank's staff through close
supervision and timely and appropriate recommendations was able to prevent



- 10 -
fur.her deterioration and largely improved project implementation. In that
respect. project supervision teams operated as technical assistance support
groups.
I. Borrower Performance
38.      BEV/JNV's  execution  and   managerial   weakness  during  project
preparation and implementation (para 10 above) were caused mainly by: (i)
some difficulties in the appointment of high level staff in managerial
positions; (ii) lack of coordination (and at times rivalry) between BEV and
JNV. BEV/JNV was, however, able to overcome these difficulties under
strong leadership from the top management of both institutions, during the
latter part of the project period, when 81Z of the implementation of its
component was achieved; (iii) shortage of qualified personnel due to low
JNV salaries, which resulted in inadequate capacity to resolve technical
problems in a timely  and  effective  manner.   This was partially overcome
through the Technical Assistance components which helped BEV/JNV with
project administration procedures; (iv) protracted bureaucratic procedures
within BEV/JNV; (v) lack of funds by the Ministries of Education and Health
to implement the community facilities component; (vi) difficulties in
procurement procedures that did not comply with provisions of the loan
agreement.
39.      The German Technical  Assistance  Agency  (GTZ) formed a Technical
Support and Innovation Unit (UIAT) to advise BEV/JNV on institutional
improvements.    This  helped   to   correct   a  number  of  deficiencies,
particularly the centralization of decision-making.
40.      Two new posts were created at  the suggestion of the Bank aimed at
circumventing a bottleneck in the technical decision-making, which in fact
had a positive influence on the implementation process. These appointments
were a senior-level Project Manager within the Director-General Department
of JNV, and of a Senior Planning Assistant within the Planning Directorate
of BEV/JNV.
41.      Overall, BEV/JNV's   -liance  with  legal  conditions of the Loan
governing affordability and         limitations were met. However, increasing
inflation rates did not permit BEV to meet lending terms (Section 2.08,
Project Agreement). The interest rates charged by BEV on housing loans
remained below inflation rates (para 28).
J. Project Relationship
42.      The success of the dialogue  wit} .ne Government can be attributed
to at least two factors. First, the Bank essentially supported the
Government's program of supplying affordable housing for lower income
groups while minimizing public subsidies; and second, the dialogue, from
the Bank's view point, took into account that the Govzrnment was committed
to developing policies and institutions to meet such objectives and
provided  technical  assistance  for   improving  BEV/JNV  operational  and
financial efficiency.



K. Consulting Services
43.      Excellent work was performed by consultants in advising on project
implementation and administration as well as in their evaluation. However,
the foreign consultants deployed in the establishment of a financial
management information system, project administration and urban upgrading,
performed less than satisfactory work.
L. Project Documentation and Data
44.      Original documentation for the project was adequate.  However, the
changing conditions of the country during the implementation period
hampered the scope of its usefulness.
45.      This report  relies  mainly  on  the  legal  documents,  the Staff
Appraisal Report, aide memoires and supervision reports, which provided the
basic information for the preparation of Part I and Part III.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
(Loan 2135-EC)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROH BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE5
Loan Agreement IBRD 2135-EC concluded on December 9, 1982,
partially financed the National Low-Cost Housing Project in an amount of
US$35.7  million.    This  program   served  basically  to  initiate  urban
development  projects  and  large-scale   housing  schemes  for  low-income
households. In addition, a significant benefit of the program, which was
also intended to strengthen the institutional, technical, and financial
capacity of the Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda and Junta Nacional de la
Vivienda (BEV/JNV) was that it made it possible to apply a systematic
policy of expanding subsidized housing and community development by means
of appropriate channeling of public investment.
The Government, being aware of the purposes of the program, has
ensured that the proceeds of this loan have been used in accordance with
the execution schedules established. Some 952 of the funds were invested,
on the basis of which the BEV and  the  JNV were able to obtain a new loan,
IBRD Loan 2898-EC, "Second Low-Cost Housing Project."
The housing in question was built in 10 cities, which were
selected on the basis of variables such as demographic growth, low level of
development, and site availability.   The  initial planning for the project
envisaged construction of 8,200 dwellings, and upon its conclusion a total
of 7,880 had been built.
Execution of the project suffered significant delays to begin
with, due mainly to difficulties in acquiring the sites, obtaining the
approval of the municipalities involved for execution of the works,
protracted and complicated procedures for contracting the works, etc. To
these problems were added the need for the executing agencies, the BEV and
JNV, to simultaneously undertake new programs such as incremental building,
housing upgrading, and urban development.
51 This is an unedited version of Part II as written by the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit, with comments from BEV and JNV.



-13-
Following completion of this project it can be stated that the
executing  agencies   have   achieved   the   level   of  organization  and
administrative improvement considered  essential  for implementation of the
goals agreed with IBRD.
In addition, as  is  known,  significant  changes  occurred in the
country's  economic  and  social  circumstances  during  execution  of  the
program. These changes impacted its implementation, to the extent that
they also affected the objectives and parameters on which the initial
planning for meeting the demand for low-cost housing was based.
These and other difficulties resulted in the closing date for
disbursements from the loan, originally set at June 30, 1987, being
extended to June 30, 1988, which meant that the BEV/JNV needed a further
US$4 million for executing the projects.
In  conclusion,  it  can   be   stated  that  notwithstanding  the
complications that arose. the housing program in question had a very
positive  impact.    The  World  Bank's  readiness  to  assist  Ecuador  in
accomplishing the set objectives deserves special mention.
Finally, with regard to the project completion data contained in
Parts I and III prepared by IBRD, this information is considered important
and of great value for analysis and lessons to be drawn concerning the
performance of the project administrative units.
The report setting out the evaluation and comments of the BEV and
JNV regarding their areas of competence is as follows:
A.  Project Design
In evaluating project IBRD 2135-EC, the following should be noted
regarding the design of the project:
The project was reasonably designed both as regards its size and
as to the resources needed for its execution, except for certain components
such as community infrastructure and reconstruction of housing damaged by
the earthquake, execution of which did not meet expectations for the
following reasons:
i. In the case of community infrastructure, it was impossible to
implement agreements among the participating institutions either
because of the limited operating capacity of certain executing
agencies  or  else  'ecause   political  considerations  placed  a
constraint cn the degree of execution of this component.
The allocation for reconstruction subloans was not fully used
because  the   target   population   also   received   grants  and
preferential loans from nonreimbursable funds provided by the
German Government and AID.



- 14 -
ii.  The schedule  for  utilization  of  the  loan  funds assumed ideal
circumstances and failed to take into consideration factors that
affected its implementation  in  many  ways.   This observation is
borne out by comparison of the closing date for disbursements set
in the project appraisal (1987) and the date as of which 94.7Z of
the external resources was actually disbursed, namely June 1989.
This slippage in use of the loan funds was due to the following
reasons:
(a) The project preparation assumed an operating capacity that
the executing agencies did not in fact possess, so that the
programming proved too optimistic.
(b) The programming failed to take into account the time required
for bidding for the work contracts due to tne requirements of
Ecuadorian legislation; the fact is that in some cases.
especially in the execution of housing programs, this process
took more than a year.
B. Project Execution
Regarding the execution of the project, the following should be
noted:
The experience gained with the execution of the Guayaquil Urban
Development Project financed with loan IBRD 1776-EC enabled the BEV and JNV
to set up appropriate mechanisms for execution of project IBRD 2135-EC, in
which the organic structure of the two institutions was a significant
factor.   When  execution  of  the  National  Low-Cost  Housing Project was
started. the BEV and JNV had a functional organic structure suited to the
project's requirements; as a result, the housing upgrading loan program was
implemented  successfully  and  housing  production   by  the  JNV  was  in
accordance with the targets set.   The  fine  tuning of the BEV's and JNV's
operating structure, together with the progressive change in the housing
policy targeting middle and low-income families, definitely made it
possible for the project targets and objectives to be met.
C. Evaluation of the Bank's Performance
i. The periodic supervision missions for loans IBRD 1776-EC and
2135-EC were fruitful in that they diagnosed the different
problems affecting the normal progress of the projects and
produced  the  most  appropriate   solutions  for  utilization  of
virtually the full amount of the external credit funds.
ii. The technical assistance received by the BEV and JNV enabled the
gradual change in administrative, financial, institutional and
organizational spheres that led to the establishment of an
operating structure compatible with the requirements for execution
of the project.



-15 -
iii.  Disbursements were processed  promptly  and  capably  by the World
Bank's  Disbursement   Division,   thereby   contributing  to  the
utilization of 952 of the loan funds.
iv.  Although the  BEV  and  JNV  had  technical assistance permanently
available to them, the World Bank nevertheless did not assign
sufficient importance to staff training, particularly as regards
courses of longer than two months' duration; this negatively
affected  the  institutions'  ability   to  utilize  100%  of  the
resources allocated for technical assistance.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
(Loan 2135-EC)
PART III
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan                                           Year of
Title                  Purpose                 Approval      Status                   Comments
5-008-EC     Pro-investment studies;              08/1977     Completed    USS17.5 million Loan effective
institutional development                                     in March 1978. Closing delayed
assistance to FONAPRE and the                                 by 8 years. Despite initial
Ecuadorian consulting industry                                difficulties all components were
implemented. Good progress in
institutional development of
FONAPRE.
1778-EC     Initiate large-scale programs of    12/11/79     Completed    USS26.8 million Loan effective in
employment generation and                                     October 1980. Closing delayed by
residential development for low-                              2 years.
income families in Guayaquil.
2898-EC     Increase production of low-income    1/12/88     Ongoing       USSeO.0 million loan effective in
housing, and further strengthening                            September 1988.
BEV/JNV administrative and
productive capabilities while
fostering private participation
In low-income housing production.
--------------------------------------------------------__ ---------  --------__-----------------------------



- 17 -
2. Project Timetable
-----_----------------------------.------------------------__--------
it..            Date
Planned          Revised                Actual
..____________________________________________________________________
Identification                                                            06/80
Preparation                                                          08/80 - 07/81
Appraisal  Mission                                                        07/81
Loon Negotiations                                                03/08/82 - 03/28/82
Board Approval                                                          06/04/82
Loon Signature                 10/01/82                                 12/09/82
Loan Effectiveness                              03/10/83                06/04/88
Loon Closing                    36/80/87        12/11/84                06/80/88
Loon Completion                12/81/87         12/11/84                12/31/88
----------------- ----------------      ----------------       ------- __-------



- 18 -
3. Loan Disbursements
(US3  million)
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__-----------
Bank  FY                        1982          1983          1984         1986          1986          1987          1988          1989
Appraisal                          1.'.          4.4         12.5          26.8          33.9         36.7
Actual                                                        1.4           6.6          17.6         26.6          31.9          33.8
Actual  %  of                                                11.2          26.2          62.0         74.2          89.4          94.7
estimated
Note------:---Date-----of-----inal------disbu--------ement----__-------------__--1989.----
Notes: Date of final disbursemant, July a, 1989.



3. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated & Actual
Disbursements
US$ M
40 -
30 
20 --
10 -
o -J
1982       1983       1984       1986        1986       1987       1988       1989
Year
Appraisal     Actual



- 20 -
4. Project ImplementatIon
-_-------------------------------.---------------------__-----------
---No Bon.ficiert.s---
Appraisal           Actual
Project Components                   Estimate           Completion
Low-cost Housing                      8,200 1/          8,798  I/
Ho"m  Improve_ent Loans               7,000 2/         19,800  2/
Coinunity Facilities                     40 a/              0  S/
- Schools                                10                0
- Health Centers                          7                0
- DOy-care Conters                        9                0
- Coumunity Centers                      14                0
Notes: 1/ Housing solutions
2/ t of loans
8/ Total units number



- 21 -
S.  Project Costs and finticing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal                          Actual
(USS.)             (%)            (USIm)    t%)
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__------
New Housing                     68.8             58.4             42.5     48.8
Urban Upgrading                  4.4              4.4              0.8      0.9
Community Facilities             8.6              8.5              0.0      0.0
Home 'mprovement Loans          20.9             20.8             40.2     46.2
Project Management               7.7              7.7              0.8      0.9
Technical Assistance             2.3              2.3              2.9      3.3
Total Costs                    100.4            100.0             87.1    100.0
COMMENTS: Because of the sucre devaluation, and in spite of local inflation, the
total dollar cost of the project was of USS87.1 million (compared to the Appraisal
estimate USS100.4 million). However, as a result of implementation delays and
much higher local inflation than forecast at appraisal, project coats In local
currency terms Increased to about twice their original estimates. The increase in the
share of total costs experienced by the Home Improvement Loans and the Technical
Assistance components reflects the expansion of the scope of works financed by the
project to include flood and earthquake reconstruction works.
B. Sources of Funding
Appraisal                                   Actual
Total Costs                               Total Costs
Institutions                    (X)                                        (1)
ISRO                            36.4                                       58.8 1/
BEV                             49.0                                       aa.5 2/
BEDE                            16.7                                        7.7
COMMENTS: IBRO's percentage participation in the project increased from about 36x
to about 60% of total costs. This, however, did not affect the total amount of the
loan. Increased cost-sharing was accomplished by raising the disbursement ratio
for civil works, home improvement- loans, and local expenditures
NOTES:    1/ 60% of resources allocated in the Nt.L-Housing component and 34% In
Home Improvement Loans.
2/ 68.51 to finance Home Inprovement Loans and 29.8% to finance
New-Housing component.



- 22 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
---------------------------------------------------------
Indicators            Appraisal           Actual
Estimate          Estimate
(a) Beneficiaries 1/     14,800             28,096
- New Housing           8,200            8,796 2/
- Home Improv.Loans     4,200             19,300
- Urban Upgrading       2,400               --
(b) Revenue Effect         18%                201
(d) Cost Recovery 3/       90Z                83Z
Notes:    1/ Total number of families.
2/ Includes Urban Upgrading.
3/ Project costs recovered from beneficiaries
estimated in terms of total number of shelters
built between 1985-88.
Underlying Assumptions:
(a) At Appraisal
(i) Dividends of loans were estimated at 15%
interest rate.
(ii) The benefits of urban upgrading were
estimated based on property value data.
(b) Actual Estimate
(i) Costs and benefits have been quantified
for all components together.
(ii) Dividends of loans approved up to Dec.
1985 are considered constants at 182
interest rates; dividends of loans
approved between 1986/1987 are estimated
at 19% interest rate.
(iii) Investments made during the period 1982-87
have-been cuikverted into 1988 prices, in
conformity with the annual variation in
the consum.eL price index.
(iv) Annual values have been converted into
December 1988 values.



- 23 -
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal           Actual
Estimate
E.R.R                  18?                20Z
Underlying Assumptions
The rate of return used in the PCR was calculated by BEV
under the following assumptions:
(a) Annual investment represented 100 percent of total
project costs, including technical assistance.
(b) The number of beneficiaries was calculated as a
function of the total number of new housing
finished between 1985-87.
(c) The benefit per unit was calculated by subtracting
the loan repayment from the estimated annual rent
during a house life span (15 years), excluding
maintenance and repair costs. The rent figures are
a weighted average at the national level.
The rate of return used at appraisal was calculated ender
the following assumptions:
(a) Costs and benefits were estimated separately for the
the project's three main components: new-housing, home
improvement loans, and urban upgrading.
(b) The number of beneficiaries included all three
components.
(c) The benefits of both the new housing component and the
home improvement loan component were imputed from rental
data for housing comparable to what the project was
expected to produce.



- 24 -
7. Status of Covenants
---------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__---
Brief Description
Section     of Covenants                                      Comments
---------------------------------------------------------__-----------------__---
A.       LOAN AGREEMENT
3.01 (a) Borrower to cause BEV/JNV to                  Several deficiencies in
to carry out the planning and                 project planning and
construction aspects of the                   management, as well as in
project, and the financial &ad                financial-control-generated
banking aspects, respectively,                delays.
on a timely basis.
(e) Cause BEV/JNV to enter into agreement         Poor management in BEV/JNV
in defining each entity's functions           and lack of coordination
and responsibilities.                         within the housing sector
persisted until changes in
BEV's managerial hierarchy.
3.02    Cause JNV to employ consultants                Protracted procedures for
with qualifications and employment            hiring consultants created
terms satisfactory to the Bank.               serious difficulties in
Project Execution.
3.03    Cause JNV to meet affordability                In full compliance.
targets for the New Housing
Component.
3.04    Cause JNV to furnish to the Bank a             Modifications to the Loan
report on institutional development by        and Project Agreement were
June 30, 1983.                                introduced that extended
deadlines of covenants,
which became unrealistic.
3.05    Cause JNV to furnish to the Bank a             As amended to November 11,
report on construction and evaluation         1985, the date was changed
programs by December 31, 1982.                to December 31, 1986.
3.06    Ministries of Health and Education             Component not implemented.
to staff, operate and maintain
community facilities.
3.07    Borrower to cause JNV to employ Project        Bottleneck in the technical
Coordinator and Project Manager in            decision-making until
terms satisfactory to the Bank.               appointment of Project
Manager and Senior Planning
Assistant by mid-1985.
3.08 (a) Cause JNV to furnish to the Bank plans,       Delays in final design- and
work, and procurement schedules.              inadequate technical
management slowed
implementation progress.



- 25 -
(b) JNV to maintain adequate records on              Unaudited and audited
costs and benefits.                              accounts were normally late
(e) JNV to provide report ,n the execution           Partial compliance.
and initial operation of the Project,
cost and benefits, no later than six
months after Closing Date.
4.02     Borrower to cause JNV and BEV to                  Reports normally late.
maintain records of operation,
resources, and expenditures of JNV
related to Project.
B.       PROJECT AGREEMENT
2.08 (a) BEV to review not later than one year             Adjustments inadequate
of the date of the Project Agreement             given accelerating
and at least once a year thereafter the          inflation during project
interest rates charged by BEV on housing         implementation period.
loans, within the limits set by the Junta
Monetaria from time to time, make
adjustments as needed, to achieve a financial
rate of return for its housing sale and
credit operations which shall not be negative
in real terms.
2.09     BEV to furnish to the Bank, not later than-  Compliance
December 31, 1983, draft statement of
financial policy.
2.10 (c) BEV to furnish to the Bank, at least once        Compliance
a year, information on any change of BEV's
financial forecast and on the measures being
taken by BEV to maintain its solvency.
2.13     BEV to furnish to the Bank not later than        Modifications to the Loan
June 30, 1983, a report on the institutional  and Project Agreement were
development of BEV.                              introduced extending
deadlines of covenants,
which became unrealistic.
4.02 (a) BEV to have its accounts and financial           Audited accounts were
statements for each fiscal year audited.         normally late.



8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff-weeks)
Stage of
Project Cycle           1980      1981     1982     1983     1984      1986     1986     1987     1988      1989   TOTAL
Through Appraisal          8.6       2.7                                                                               11.2
Appraisal through
Board Presentation               87.8      B1.4                                                                     129.2
Board Approval
through Effect.                            11.9      0.3                                                             12.2
Supervision                                           18.4     12.6      17.8     12.6     17.6                        78.8
Completion                                                                                            4.3      7.6     11.9
TOTAL                      8.6      70.6     73.3     16.7     12.6      17.8     12.6     17.6      4.3       7.6    241.3



- 27 -
B. M;slon8
Stagse of               Month      No of    Oays ih       Specialization       Performonce                Comments
Project Cyclo            Year     Persons    Fiold        Represented 1/   Rating/Status 2/
Type of Problem 3/
F M T O
Through Appraisol       05/80           1           10    Lo                                      Project Identification
07/80          5           10    Po. Lo. Co                              Preparation Mission
10/80          4           10    Po, Lo, Co                              Preparation Mission
03/81          5           IS    Po. Lo. Fe, Co. Ra.
04/81          1           10    Po                                      Pre-Appraisal Mission
Appraisal through       07/S1           6           10    Po. Lo, La. Fe, Co.                     Appraisal Mission
Re.
Board Presentation      08/81           1           15    Lo
03/82          6           10    Lo. Le. Fe
goard Approzal(05/82)  06/S2            2           20    Lo, Fa
through Effecti.eness  07/82            2            4    Po, Fs
(OS/83)                 09/82          2             7    Lo. F                1  2  -  1
12/i2          2           10    Lo, Fa
02/83          1            5    Lo
03/83          1            4    Po
Superviaion             07/83           1            5    Fe                   -  2  -
10/83          2           10    Lo, Fa                                  Operational Mission;
Amendments/Negoti ati one
03/84          2            9    En. Fa. Is           1  2  -  2
10/o4          3            4    La. Lo. Is                             Reviss of Project
Expansion
02/85          2           10    Fa. En               -  I  -  -         Operational Mission
03/86          2           13    Fe. C'o              1  2  2  2
09/88          2            6    Po, Lo               1  2  2  2         Project Progres s
Auditing
01/87          3           12    En. Fea  Is
04/87          4           10    Lo, Co                                  Earthquak* damage
assessment; Real location
of funds; Reconstruction
Vo, 1-o
12/87          1           10    Fs                                     Technieal Asaistance
04/88          1            6    La                   I  _  -  2         Loan Restructuring
1/  FPa  Financial Analyst;  Co. Consultant  Efn- Engineer;  Po. Project Officer; Lo- Loan Officer: Rar Research
Assistant; Is. Institutional Specialist; La. Legal Specialist.
2/  1I  Minor Probles;  2- Moderate Probles.
3/  Fe Financial: Me Maneger.al;  T- Technical;  0. Other.



