Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3675b-EC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
April 13, 1982
Projects Department
Latín America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diselosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Sucre (S/iL)           US$0.033
US$1               =     S/30
WEIGHTS AND MLEASURES
1 meter (m)                 39.37 inches
1 square meter (m2)         10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (kmn)            0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)               2.47 acres
1 liter (1)           -      0.26 US gallon
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEDE      -   Banco de Desarrollo del Ecuador - Ecuadorian Development Bank
BEV       -   Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda - Ecuadorian Housing Bank
CENAPIA   -   Centro Nacional de Pequena Industria y Artesania - National
Small Industry and Artisan Center
CONADE    -   Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo - National Development Council
GTZ       -   Gesellschalt fur Techni.sche Zussamenarbet - Society for
Technical Cooperatiori
IESS      -   Instituto Ecuatoriano dLe Seguro Social - Ecuadorian Institute
for Social Security
JNV       -   Junta Nacional de la Vivienda - National Housing Board
USAID     -   United States Agency fcr International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME ROUSING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Page
Table of Contents                                   No.
I.    SECTOR BACKGROUND   ..........................................                        1
A.   Urban Development and Housing  ...........................                      1
B.   Previous Responses  to the Problem .......................                      2
C.   Performance  on the Guayaquil Urban Development Project  ..                     4
D.   Plans  for the Future  ....................................                     5
II,   THE PROJECT AGENCIES  ........................................                         7
A.   Institutional Background  ................................                      7
B.  Organization  ............................................                       8
C.   Personnel  ...............................................                      9
D.  Accounting and Auditing  .................................                       9
E.   Planning and Budgeting ..................................    10
F.   Coordination and Communication  ..........................    11
III.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES,  COMPONENTS,  COST,  AND FINANCING  ....                 .....   11
A.   The Project  .............................................    11
B.  Costs  ...................................................    12
C.   Financing  ...............................................    14
IV.    DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION  .............             ..........    .........    15
A.   New Housing  .............................................    15
B.   Urban Upgrading .........................................    18
C.   Community Facilities  ....................................    19
D.   Home Improvement Loans  ..................................    19
E.   Project Management  ......................................    20
F.   Technical Assistance  ....................................    21
V.      IMPLEMENTATION  .................................    21
A.   Project Administration   .................................    21
B.  Dealings with Beneficiaries  .............................    23
C.   Implementation Schedule  .................................    24
D.  Procurement  .................................    24
E.   Disbursement  ..........                .......................    25
F.   Maintenance and Operation  ...............................                     27
G.   Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................                      28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Ecuador during July 1981. The míssion comprised Messrs. David Beckmann,
Neil Boyle, Eric Canessa, Thakoor Persaud, Mauricio Escobar (Consultant),
and Ms. Eleanor Hewitt.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Page
No.
VI.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .......................................               28
A.  Past Performance .....................................               30
B.  Present Position .....................................               30
C.  Future Finances and Financing Plan ...................               33
D.  Cost Recovery ........................................               34
VII.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL JUSTIFICATION ........................                34
A.  Social Analysis ......................................               35
B.  Economic Analysis ....................................               38
C.  Risks and Replicability ..............................               40
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................................                43
ANNEX 1: Outline Terms of Refererice for Consultants
ANNEX 2: Implementation and Dísbursement Schedules
Table 1 - Key Dates fc,r Project Supervision
Table 2 - Key Indicatcrs for Project Supervision
Table 3 - Progress on Sub-Components
Table 4 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX 3:  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
ANNEX 4: Diagrams
PHOTOGRAPHS
MAPS
Ecuador and the Project Cities
Riobamba Site Layout
Santo Domingo Site Layout



ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.01      In Ecuador, as in many countries, public authorities have had
difficulty coping with the growing demand for shelter and basic services in
urban areas, especially among the poor. The present Government has
directed its efforts in the shelter sector toward the needs of lower-income
families. At the same time, given present fiscal pressures, it has been
eliminating subsidies that were formerly channelled into housing. The
proposed project is designed to support the simultaneous shift of
Government shelter policy toward a more social orientation and a more solid
financial basis.
A. Urban Development and Housing
1.02      Ecuador's urban population of about 3.8 million (44% of the
country's total population) has more than tripled over the last 30 years.
Ecuador's annual population growth rate of 3.4% ranks among the highest in
Latin America, and rural out-migration brings the urban population growth
rate to 4.5%. In the absence of a clear population policy and a vigorous
rural development policy, these trends are likely to continue, so that by
the turn of the century there will be over 9 million people (58% of total
population) in Ecuador's cities. Such urban growth will place significant
added burdens on Ecuador's systems for providing shelter and urban
services.
1.03      Guayaquil (1.2 million) and Quito (0.8 million), Ecuador's two
largest cities, together account for 53% of the total urban population, 60%
of national output, and 70% of industrial output. Quito is the nation's
capital, and Guayaquil is its commercial center. Sixteen secondary cities
together account for another 30% of Ecuador's urban population. The
largest of Lhem has a population of less than 150,000, but they have on
average been growing slightly more rapidly than Quito and Guayaquil, and a
few of them are experiencing annual growth rates above 10%.  The secondary
cities serve the rural areas of the country as administrative and
commercial centers, and some have industrial sectors too.
1.04      An estímated 37% of urban families, with incomes below the
absolute poverty threshold of US$223 (S/6,700) per month, are probably
unable to provide themselves with a calorie-adequate diet (para. 7.07), let
alone adequate housing. The proportion of urban families with incomes
below the absolute poverty threshold rises to an estimated 47% in the
secondary cities and even higher in the rural areas.
1.05      To the extent that the housing needs of Ecuador's low-income
urban population have been satisfied, it has been done mainly by the
families themselves, but without the legal framework and public
infrastracture they need to do the job adequately. Approximate service
levels are shown in the table below:



--2-
ESTIMATED PERCENTAGES OF FAMILIES REACHED BY
BASIC URBAN SERVICES, 1980
Water       Sewerage      Electricity
Quito                                80            80             80
Guayaquil                            70            50             80
Sierra Secondary Cities              75            75             80
Coastal Secondary Cities             50            35             70
1.06      Service levels are generalLy higher in the cities of the Sierra
(Ecuador's central mountainous region), especially Quito, than in the
cities of the Coast (the coastal pla:[n region).  In the Coast, the poor
chatacteristically "invade" vacant municipal or private land on the
outskirts of cities, hastily ereccting cane houses and later pressuring
public officials for services and, finally, legal tenure. "Invaded" land
is usually swampy or otherwise unSuitable for development, and poorly
planned settlement patterns also make upgrading difficult and expensive.
1.07      Land "invasions" are relatively rare in the cities of the Sierra,
primarily because of its harsher ,liímate. Instead, the poor tend to rent
older housing in the city center Dr on the hillsides which surround many
urban areas. Nearly everyone in the Sierra towns has access to urban
services, but high rents require thalt a larger proportion of income be used
for shelter, and crowding is severe. It is not uncommon for ten people to
occupy one room.
1.08      The 1974 census estimate wias that 48% of Ecuador's urban housing
was "unacceptable," and a fourth of that "unimprovable.` It was calculated
that in order to reduce crowding in urban areas to an average of 4.5 people
per house, an additional 234,000 houses would have to be built. Despite
recent efforts to construct more schools and extend health services, the
schools and clinics that serve low-income areas are still seriously
overcrowded. The leading cause of death in Ecuador, enteritis and other
diarrheic disease, is largely attributable to inadequate water, sewerage,
medical attention, and education.
B. Previous Responses to the Problem
1.09      The past generation has been characterized by notable efforts to
meet Ecuador's continually growing requirements for urban housing.  But,
until recently, low-income families were virtually excluded from the formal
housing market.
1.10      Until the 1960s, housing was provided almost entirely by private
banks and construction companies for higher-income people and by the
informal sector (generally outside tie framework of the law and without
necessary support from public authorities) for lower-income people. The
relatively few mortage loans of the social security system (Instituto
Ecuatoriano de Seguro Social (IESS)) to its members (even now only about
700 per year) represented the only public-sector intervention in the
housing market.



-3-
1.11      In 1961 the national housing bank (Banco Ecuatoriano de la
Vivienda (BEV)) was founded, and the savings and loan system was
established two years later, both in response to the burgeoning urban
demand for housing.  BEV was complemented in 1973 by the national housing
board (Junta Nacional de la Vivienda (JNV)), a sister institution under the
same president. BEV continued to be responsible for housing finance
(including regulation of the savings and loan system), while JNV was given
responsibility for construction programs and housing policy.
1.12      BEV/JNV and Ecuador's eleven savings-and-loan associations
expanded rapidly. Starting with only S/275 million from a USAID Housing
Guaranty loan, Ecuador s savings-and-loan associations have, on the basis
of private savings, been able to lend more than S/6 billion during their 18
years of operations. They have recently financed an estimated 1,500 houses
per year. BEV/JNV, supported by substantial transfers from the
Government's petroleum revenues as well as private savings, was able to
increase its average annual output from about 600 houses in the 1960s to
about 2,000 in the first half of the 1970s, to about 4,500 in the latter
half of the 1970s.
1.13      These efforts failed to effectively address the shelter needs of
low-income people, however. The average house financed by BEV in 1977, for
example, cost the equivalent of US$12,400 (updated to be comparable to
project unit costs (paras. 4.06-4.08)). This was twice what a family at
the urban poverty threshold at that tíme could afford, even at the
subsidized interest rates which BEV then maintained. About 45% of the
BEV/JNV houses completed in 1976 and 1977 were affordable (at subsidized
interest rates) to families below the urban poverty threshold, but this
accounted for only about 24% of BEV's investment program. IESS and the
savings-and-loan associations provided somewhat higher-cost housing,
generally catering to the upper-middle range of the urban income
distribution, and private banks continued to lend for high-income housing.
Families in the bottom half of the income distribution were left to find
housing for rent or to build their own.
1.14      Formal-sector housing production has been unduly concentrated in
Quito and Guayaquil. According to a 1980 USAID study of human settlements
in Ecuador (Item C.4 in the Project File), only 13% of the housing produced
by the formal sector in 1973-77 was outside Quito and Guayaquil, and only
1% in rural areas.
1.15      The provision of urban services has also been improved over the
years, but, again, attention has focused on higher-income people in Quito
and Guayaquil. Municipal companies were established for both water and
sewerage in Quito and Guayaquil in the 1960s, and a number of secondary
cities have since formed utility companies. Urban services are still not
available to many families, especially outside the two major cities. Cost
recovery for existing water and sewerage services is far from adequate, and
this limits the ability of utilities to serve new low-income consumers.
1.16      In order to demonstrate the feasibility of providing the poor
with more adequate housing and basic urban services, the Bank helped the
Municipality of Guayaquil prepare the Guayaquil Urban Development Project
during 1978 and 1979 (IBRD Loan 1776-EC). With the inauguration of a new
Government administration in August 1979, urban development and housing
policies at the national level were sharply reoriented to the benefit of



-.4-
lower-income people. Concepts anci te-chnologies which had been included, on
a demonstration basis, in the Guayaquil Urban Development Project (para.
1.19), were now announced as national policy.
1.17      In compliance with promises made when the administration began,
BEVT/JNV has managed to nearly complete a nationally financed project of
8,000 low-cost houses (called the GuaEyaquil Emergency Plan) within two
years. A US$64.7 millíon USAID Housing Guaranty project for Quito has also
been planned, involving a private foundation, the Municipality, and BEV/JNV
in the development of a new low-cost housing site. Start-up of the USAID
project has been delayed by slow provision of necessary off-site
infrastructure, administrative problems in the foundation involved, and
high mortgage interest rates in the United States.
C.  Performance on the Guayaquil Urban Development Project
1.18      Key steps in the processing of the proposed loan have been linked
to progress on the Guayaquil Urban Development Project (IBRD Loan 1776-EC),
particularly on its BEV/JNV comporLent. The project proposed in this report
is not a follow-up project to the Guayaquil Urban Development Project, but
the Guayaquil project is related to the proposed project:
(a)   BEV/JNV is one of the participating agencies in the Guayaquil
project (500 low-cost hoauses in the Floresta area and 10,000
small home improvement loans); and
(b)   the Guayaquil project also includes components of
sites-and-services and slum upgrading (to be executed by the
Municipality of Guayaquil).
1.19      The Guayaquil Urban Development Project is a multi-component,
multi-institution effort to ameliorate poverty in Guayaquil.  It was
designed to demonstrate the feasibility of several innovative approaches to
investing in the urban poor (sites-and-services, slum upgrading, assistance
to very smali enterprises) and involves a number of institutions. It was
limited to Guayaquil because the pro ject is complex, and because the
problems of illegal urban settlements and city mismanagement are especially
severe in Guayaquil.
1.20      All of the project's compornents are now underway, but the whole
project suffered nearly a year of delay before its various legal agreements
were signed. There was a protracted delay prior to signature of the Bank
loan related to Ecuador's adoption of a new constitution. Subsequently,
there was a delay in finalizing sub-agreements within the country,
particularly those involving BEDE (the new (1979) national development
bank). BEDE has now started disbursements for the Guayaquil project.
1.21      The largest component of the Guayaquil project (US$24 million)
involves the provision of basic urban services to low-income areas (both
sites-and-services areas and existing slums to be upgraded), to be executed
primarily by the Municipality of Guayaquil. The Municipality's project
unit has done moderately well during project start-up (finalizing land
expropriation, launching consultant sLtudies of municipal financial
management and detailed design for sites-and-services, and initiating a



- 5
city planning study financed by the national preinvestment fund from IBRD's
Second Technical Assistance Loan (S-006-EC)). They have been hampered by
the Municipality's chronic administrative weaknesses, however. They have
had particular difficulty with the urban upgrading subcomponent, because
works cannot begin until feasible plans are prepared for legalizing the
land tenure situation in two slums to be upgraded. Formulation of these
plans continues to be frustrated by political conflict between municipal
officials and a committee of the National Congress. However, a new Project
Coordinator (located in the Central Bank), appointed in January 1982, is
taking steps to resolve this conflict.
1.22     In contrast to the Municipality's difficulties, BEV/JNV is making
good progress on the second major component of the Guayaquil project (US$14
million), which consists of low-cost housing construction and home
improvement loans. By the time of loan negotiation in March 1982, BEV had
requested nearly US$2 million in IBRD disbursements, completed more than
75% of its new housing area (Floresta), and disbursed over 200 home
improvement loans.
1.23      The third major component of the Guayaquil project (US$11
million) involves assistance to very small-scale enterprises. It consists
of small loans (averaging about US$1,000 each) by private banks, supported
by technical assistance to the enterprises from the national small
enterprise and artisan center (CENAPIA). Although open to all private
banks, the component was designed on the basis of an existing program of
the Banco del Pacifico. In early 1981, this bank experienced repayment
problems with its ongoing program and stopped new lending of this type for
several months to concentrate on supervision and collection. Since July
1981, however, the Banco del Pacifico has disbursed US$225,000 in loans
under this component. The Central Bank began rediscounting these loans in
November 1981, the Ministry of Finance having established a revolving fund
of US$300,000 for the program. Parallel to this, CEN&PIA has begun its
program of technical assistance to very small-scale enterprises in
Guayaquil, having provided training in basic organization and accounting to
nearly 200 small-scale entrepreneurs.
D. Plans for the Future
National Development Plan
1.24      The housing chapter of the National Development Plan 1980-84
advocated a shift toward progressive housing schemes (sites-and-services
and basic units) and toward housing investment in secondary cities.  It
called for the construction of cheaper homes and many more of them. The
activities of all the institutions involved in the sector were to be
somewhat reoriented toward the lower end of the income scale. Regarding
rural housing, the Plan counseled an emphasis on research and
experimentation during this five-year period.
1.25      BEV/JNV has taken the Plan seriously, but it is now fully
recognized by all the officials involved that the Plan was too ambitious in
the number of houses it said should be constructed in the five-year
period. According to the Plan, BEV/JNV would have constructed 143,000
homes in 1980-84, more than seven times its output over the last five
years. Targets for the social security instita:te, the savings-and-loan
system, and the rest of the private sector were also ambitious, but no
mechanisrns were suggested for evoking sucli expansion on their part.



-6-
1.26      The urban development chapter of the Plan proposed the formation
of a National Urban Development Council to review all urban development
investments. It would include representatives of CONADE (the planning
ministry), JNV, IEOS (the water and sanitary agency), the municipalities,
and other institutions involved in urban development. Unlike the parallel
Rural Development Council, this council has yet to be established.
Implementation of the other proposals in the urban development chapter is
also, for the most part, still pending.
Sector Constraints
1.27      When the proposed project was identified, IBRD and CONADE also
identified several binding constraints on Government's intentions for
housing and urban development more generally. Accordingly, over the past
two years the Bank has undertaken sectoral analyses related to each of
these priority constraints. These analyses were intended to address issues
which are important to the sector, but extend beyond the scope of the
project.
1.28      The first analysis focused on the issue of inappropriate urban
development regulations. Mainly in response to one of the recommendations
which resulted from that analysis, CONADE and JNV hosted a national seminar
on urban development norms. Through the seminar, they were able to gain
more acceptance by the officials who actually regulate urban development of
the need to tailor norms to incomnes. Some municipalities are still more
conservative than others, but a marked shift of opinion has taken place
(para. 4.14).   The published conclusions of the seminar are available in
the Project File (Item C.3).
1.29      A second constraint on the Plan is financial, and a second
analysis was focused on ways thai: more money might be mobilized for
housing, especially low-income housing. The most important conclusion was
that BEV should become more active ats the central institution for the
savings-and-loan system, providing some support to the system and using its
regulatory authority to channel more savings-and-loan resources to
lower-income clients (para. 7.37). Further study is planned in order to
develop a strategy for dealíng with the financial constraints on the sector
(Annex 1, Section C, para. 2).
1.30      Another constraint on urban development, which IBRD and CONADE
considered a priority concern, is th.e general weakness of secondary-city
municipalities. The municipalities of small towns are often unable to
provide or adequately maintain urbaai services (para. 5.30-31). Municipal
administration tends to be unplanned, under-financed, technically
deficient, and narrowly polítical. This third sectoral analysis, which is
now being finalized, will outline the issues involved and suggest steps
toward resolution of the problem.
Origins of the Project
1.31      The possibility of Bank investment in BEV's nationwide program
was discussed at the time of the appraisal and negotiation of the Guayaquil
Urban Development Project (October 1979). The basic project concept w¿as to
support a double reorientation which BEV/JNV was considering: toward more
and lower-cost houses and toward better financial management and banking



-7-
practices. Project preparation was done in-house by BEV/JNV between March
1980 and July 1981.
1.32      The Bank was aware that it would be premature to expand the
Guayaquil project's various components to the national level before they
were well underway in Guayaquil, so the proposed project was, from the
beginning, limited to the strongest institution in the sector (BEV/JNV) and
to the simplest, most advanced component (new housing). The proposed
project was kept administratively simple, to avoid initial delays during
the finalization of legal agreements such as the Guayaquil project had
suffered. Also, while the Guayaquil project was prepared in seven months,
with major inputs from Bank staff, the national project was prepared by the
executing institution over a period of 15 months.
1.33      BEV/JNV's current annual production of 10,000 houses per year is
equtvalent to about 30% of the demand for new housing in Ecuador arising
from urban growth. Thus, strengthening BEV/JNV's program--adopting more
affordable standards and eliminating subsidies--would be a significant
achievement in itself. In addition, BEV/JNV is the central institution in
the housing sector, with broad authority to set policy and regulate other
sector institutions, both public and private. As BEV/JNV leverages urban
development regulations around the country down to more realistic levels
(paras. 1.28 and 4.14), private-sector housing developers should also be
able to produce housing for lower-income families. As BEV/JNV demonstrates
the feasibility of providing families with minimal, improvable shelter
units, leaving their completion to the families themselves, this approach
may also be attempted by other developers.  Finally, BEV is central to the
savings-and-loan system, and JNV may become increasingly involved with the
municipalities of secondary cities, so there would be future possibilities
to improve both these sets of sector institutions through a strengthened
BEV/JNV (para. 7.38).
II. THE PROJECT AGENCIES
2.01      Although institutional development is among the important aspects
of the proposed project, BEV/JNV is already strong both technically and
administratively, and is fully capable of implementing this project.
A. Institutional Background
2.02      BEV is an autonomous public housing finance institution with
broad powers to establish housing credit policy and undertake all normal
mortgage banking activities. JNV's statutory powers are almost
ministerial: to program national housing policy, coordinate public and
private entities operating in the sector, plan urban development through
its housing projects, and promote private investment in the sector. JNV
has never used most of these powers. In effect, it has been the
construction arm of BEV, building housing projects for BEV financing.
2.03      Although legally distinct, BEV and JNV have functioned together
as virtually one organization. They both have the same President, a
cabinet-level officer with overall responsibility for housing in Ecuador.
BEV's board of directors includes the President of BEV/JNV, a representa-
tive of the Ministry of Finance (which now owns 95% of BEV's shares), and a
representative of IESS (which owns the other 5%). JNV's board includes
representatives of a number of other institutions, including several
ministries and the savings-and-loan system.



-8-
2.04      BEV/JNV's management during the 1970s was aggressively
growth-oriented. BEV obtained substartial annual transfers from the
Government's petroleum revenues, and, at the same time, built up a
nationwide network of offices (Quito, Guayaquil, and 17 secondary cities)
and an impressive clientele of regular savers.   JNV was run much like a
construction company. There were constant efforts to build more houses,
but little forward planning.
2.05      BEV/JNVIs management changed in August 1979 and, after six
months, changed again.  There have been changes in management personnel
since then, but without disrupting the continuity of management. BEV/JNV's
present management shows a strong social orientation, complemented by a
serious interest in planning.
B. Organization
2.06      During the first year of this administration, six project units
were set up to undertake a series of tasks for which BEV/JNV's traditional
organization and staff were thought to be ill-prepared. Almost all these
special project units are now being dissolved, however, and BEV/JNV
management is modifying the basic organizational structure of BEV/JNV to
make it more apt for present purposes.
2.07      The new organizational structure for JNV is shown in World Bank
diagram 23429 in Annex 4. Most of what is now JNV will become JNV's
Technical Directorate.  In addition, a Planning Directorate has been
established to strengthen planning and evaluation and to develop JNV's
policymaking function. JNV's legal department, now overshadowed by BEV's
Legal Directorate, is to be fortified and raised to the directorate level.
The third new JNV directorate will be Administration and Finance, which
will, for the first time, keep JNV's accounts entirely separately from
those of BWV. The Federal Republic of Germany has agreed to support JNV's
institutional development with a grant program of technical assistance in
coordination with the proposed IBRD-financed project (para. 4.35).
9.08      These reforms should strengthen some of JNV's past weaknesses:
its dependence on BEV; its failure to go beyond construction programs to
the policy-making role its statutes authorize; its lack of project
planning, appraisal, and evaluation; and its inefficiently `flat" hierarchy
(with too many detailed decisions taken at the level of General Director).
JNW's restructuring has been approved by tlie National Personnel Office, but
the pace of its implementation has been slowed by recent Government
austerity measuires. Although its full and prompt implementation would be
desirable, it is not essential for implementation of the proposed project.
JNV has agreed to provide the Ba-nk, by June 30, 1983, a report of progress
on instítutional development to that date (para. 8.02(a)(i)).
2.09      BEV has already established three new departments (as shown in
IBRD diagram 23427 in Annex 4): to manage BEV's investments in building
materials factories in a more businesslike way (para. 6.11); to control
BEV's local offices; and to improve operating procedures. These reforms
are less sweeping than those underway within JNW, but are sensible and
appropriate improvetments. BEV has also agreed to provide the Bank by June
30, 1983, a report of its progress on institutional development to that
date (para. 8.02(b)(i)).



--9--
C. Personnel
2.10      The number and quality of staff appear adequate in relation to
current investment volumes. The total numnber of regular personnel in
BEV/JNV is 1,313 (394 in JNV and 919 in BEV).   Of the 394 in JNV, about
half are professional staff, mostly engineers and architects. Both BEV and
JNV also contract additional personnel; in the past substantial numbers of
permanent lower-level staff were kept on contract, but nearly all have been
integrated into the regular personnel system over the last two years.
2.11      The quality of staff in BEV/JNV is generally high.  BEV, as an
autonomous bank, is not bound by civil service salary restrictions and can
pay fully competitive salaries. JNV, however, has had to resort to a
system of bonuses to attract good staff despite relatively low nominal
salaries. Even with bonuses, JNV salaries have been below BEV salaries,
with negative results in the recruitment of technical staff. As part of
JNV's current restructuring, higher salaries for JNV staff went into effect
in December 1981.
D. Accounting and Auditing
2.12      Project accounting is done by each local office, but controlled
by the main office in Quito and consolidated once a month. Accounting is
generally adequate at both the local and national levels, and the project
includes technical assistance to rectify minor problems that exist
(Annex 1, Sectiort C, para. l).
2.13      BEV's present auditing arrangements are also satisfactory.
Internal audit is done by staff who are paid by BEV, but who report to the
national Controller and are independent of BEV management. This staff of
34 professionals audits all of BEV's accounts annually or, as needed, more
frequently. In addition, completely external staff from the
Superintendency of Banks audit BEV's accounts about once a year, but
without fixed schedule or prior notice.  A similar system is established by
law for all public agencies in Ecuador, but its results are apparently
better for some agencies than for others. IBRD missions have reviewed
BEV's internal audit reports for the last three years and found them to
have been timely and quite satisfactory.
2.14      For the purpose of the proposed project, the local offices
involved would maintain separate project accounts. BEV would advance enough
working capital to each local office involved for two quarters of
implementation, to be replenished in the third quarter after expenses for
the first quarter are justified. The project would help BEV acquire a new
computer, which would, for the first time, directly link its various
offices around the country into a financial information system in Quito
(para. 4.37). A team within BEV's Credit and Finance Directorate would
prepare a consolidated project account monthly and a comprehensive
statement on the project's financial status annually.
2.15      The financial performance of each local office involved would be
audited by BEV auditing staff once a year, and the project would also be
reviewed by BEV's external auditors. BEV would request the Superintendency
of Banks to start its external audit of BEV by September 30 of each year,
in order to provide the Bank with external auditing reports within four
months of the close of the year (para. 8.02 (b) (vii)). External audits



-10-
would explicitly include a review of the Statements of Expenditure which
BEV submits to the Bank (conveyinig the auditors' opinion on the methodology
employed in the compilation of the Statements of Expenditures, their
accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing
in terms of the project's legal agreements, and the standard of record
keeping and internal controls).
E. Planniníg and Budgeting
2.16      Planning is an area of institutional weakness for BEV/JNV.
Traditionally, BEV has only maintained annual budgets, with virtually no
forward financial planning. This  was perhaps tolerable when Government
contributions accounted for a larger share of BEV's program, but not now
that BEV is more dependent on savings and borrowings.  JNV's planning was
short-term at best.   Individual projects seem to have been launched by top
management without much preliminary planning or appraisal. This approach
was more feasible when keeping costs down was a lower priority, but, even
then, it occasioned several sign:ificant investment mistakes.
2.17      Perhaps the most important aspect of project preparation was the
elaboration of reliable fínancia:L projections that have allowed BEV, in
consultation with IBRD, to ident:ify several financial problems and appro-
priate steps that will insure its financial stability during this period of
transition (para. 6.12-18). Project: preparation also brought the tech-
nical, social, and financial staff of BEV/JNV together for their first
large exercise in integrated plannirig.  Meanwhile, JNV's new Planning
Directorate has initiated medium--term planning, programming the housing JNV
will build for the next few years by costs, location, and types, in
accordance with a systematic rationale.
2.18      These various aspects of planning still need to be further
developed and brought together in an internal process for the appraisal of
new projects. At the present time, projects are prepared in JNV's
Technical Department and directly reviewed by top management. They should
instead pass through intermediate layers of management, with second-level
managers reviewing the various aspects of project planning.
2.19      Two covenants of the loan agreement would support further
improvements in BEV/JNV planning. First, BEV has agreed to establish an
adequate system of financial management information by March 30, 1983, and
exchange views with the Bank, at least annually thereafter, about any
changes in BEV's financial projections and measures being taken to maintain
its financial position (paras. 6.16 and 8.02(b)(v)). Second, JNV would, by
December 31, 1982, provide the Bank with a proposal for a second new
housing area in Quito íncluded in the proposed project. In addition to
technical plans, the proposal would include a discussion of the develop-
ment's social and financial justification, a copy of JNV's medium-term
plan, and an analysis of the proposal's consistency with both BEV's
financial projections and JNV's mnedium-term plan (para. 8.02 (a) (iii)).
This exercise would give BEV/JNV a further experience with integrated
project planning and allow IBRD to comment, not only on the second Quito
site, but also on JNV's medium-term plan and on the mechanisms of internal
project appraisal.



-11-
F. Coordination and Communication
2.20       This is another area of relative institutional weakness.  Top
management tends to take decisions without consulting or always even
informing middle managers. Communication between BEV and JNV, below the
top management level, is particularly weak. Second- and third-tier
managers often do not have all the information they need and, even then,
sometimes hesitate to take decisions which should be made at their level in
consultation with their peers.
2.21       Top management has already announced certain measures, such as
weekly staff meetings, to improve coordination and communication within
BEV/JNV, and one of the German experts (para. 4.35), will advise them on
further steps to alleviate this problem. The proposed project would
contribute to better coordination in three ways. First, the proposal for
.the second Quito site (para. 2.19) would be an exercise in integrated
project planning. Second, since the project would be implemented by the
BEV/JNV organization as whole, not by a project unit (paras. 5.01-06), IBRD
supervision would include attention to general institutional problems.
And, finally, project-specific systems of information and coordination
(paras. 5.06 and 5.34) should also contribute to better information and
coordination within the organization generally.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, COMPONENTS, COST, AND FINANCING
A. The Project
Objectives
3.01      The objectives of the project are:
(a)   to support the Government's policy of providing adequate low-cost
housing, including housing affordable to the urban poor and in
secondary cities;
(b)   to strengthen the institutional, technical, and financial
capacity of BEV/JNV and reorient its programs toward lower-income
clients; and
(c)   to provide a national demonstration of the feasibility of
building low-standard urbanizations for progressive development,
of reliance on self-help and mutual help in improving shelter,
and of integrated urban upgrading.
Summary Project Description
3.02      The project would be carried out in Quito and nine secondary
cities.   Three of the cities are in the Sierra, and the remairider are in
the Coast.
3.03       As further detailed in Chapter IV, the project would consist of
the following six components:
(a)   New Housing.  This would be by far the largest component.  Its
estimated cost, approximately US$60 million (including land,
contingencies, and certain general costs allocable to commanity
facilities), amounts to about 60% of total project costs. The



-12-
new housing component vwou]d consist of about 8,200 shelter
solutions, corprising serviced lots and two types of basic
housing units (18 m2 and 36 m2), together with basic
inErastructure, in the ten project cities.
(b)   Urban Upgrading.  At a cost of about US$5 million, this component
would provide legal larnd tenure and basic infrastructure (such as
water supply, sewerage, street drainage, electricity, and
footpaths) to some 2,400 households ín existing low-income
settlements in Machala and other cíties.
(c)   Community Facilities.  At a cost of approximately US$8 million
(plus allocable land and infrastructure), this component would
provide community centers, schools, day-care centers, and health
clinics in the new housing; areas and in the sites selected for
urban upgrading.
(d)   Home Improvement Loans.  UJnder this component, the cost of which
would be about US$20 million, loans averaging about US$2,900 each
would be made to some 7,000 families in new housing areas and
other low-income neighborhoods.
(e)   Project Management.  Approximately US$7 million has been included
under this component to cover clearly identifiable costs incurred
by BEV/JNV in administering the project, including vehicles,
equipment, and the salaries of staff who would be working
full-time on the project.
(f)   Technical Assistance.  At a cost of about US$2 million, this
component would provide:
(i)   about 210 months of consultants' services to BEV¡JNV in the
areas of project implernentation, low-cost housing
technology, financial management, and the preparation of new
projects;
(ii)   short-term training for BEV/JNV staff; and
(iii)   the acquisition and installation of new computer equipment.
B. Costs
3.04       The total estimated cost of the project is US$100.4 million. This
does not include taxes, since BEV and JNV are exempt from taxes and
duties. The foreiga exchange companenat is estimated at US$24.7 million,
equal to 25% of project costs. Proj,ect cost estimates are summarized in
Table III1. and detailed in the Project File (Item B.1). Base costs were
caleulated in July 1981 prices and have been adjusted to reflect the
devaluation of the Sucre in March 19132.
3.05       The estimates for land acqulisition were based on updated
cadastral values. Estimates for infrastructure were based on pre-final
engineeriag designs for three of the project sites and the costs of
recently completed JNV programs. They were checked at negotiations on the
basis of final designs for infrasitructure ¡in five of the ten project towns,



-13-
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Table III-1:  Summary of Project Cost Estimates-
(July 1981 Prices)
(S/ millions)                      (US$ millions)                 Foreign
Local    Foreign      Total         Local    Foreign    Total           Exchange %
A.  New Housing
1.  Land Acquisition                     239.26      0.00      239.26        7.98       0.00        7.98              0
2.  Infrastructure                       343.25   116.17       459.42       11.44       3.87       15.31             25
3.  Basic Units Type 1                   116.73    60.04       176.77        3.89       2.00        5.89             34
4.  Basic Units Type 2                   180.70    92.93       273.63        6.03       3.10        9.13             34
B.  Urban Upgrading                            63.31    23.99       87.30        2.11       0.80        2.91             27
C.  Communíty Facilities
1.  In New Housing Areas                  63.33    32.57        95.90         2.11      1.09        3.20             34
2.  In Urban Upgrading Areas              21,08    10.85        31.93         0.70      0.36        1.06             34
D.  Home Inprovement Loans                    236.39   173.87      410.26         7.88      5.80       13.68             42
E.  Project Management
1.  Administration                        94.99    12.66       107.65         3.17      0.42        3.59             12
2.  Equipment and Vehicles                37.73    11.32        49.05         1.26      0.38        1.64             23
F.  Technical Assistance
1.  Consultants                            11.22      5.77      16.99         0.38      0.19        0.57             33
2.  Training                                2.51     3.01        5.52         0.08      0.10        0.18             56
3.  Computerization                         4.00    19.20       23.20         0.13      0.64        0.77              83
Base Costs                                  1,414.50   562.37   1,976.87          47.15    18.75        65.90             28
Physical Contingencies                        129.95    51.98       181.93         4.33      1.73        6.06             29
Price Contingencies                           724.69   127.89       852.58        24.16      4.26       28.42             15
Total Project Costs                         2,269.14   742.24   3,011.38          75.64    24.74      100.38              25
a/  Engineering design and supervision are included in the base costs, except for US$1.3 million ín engineering
design costs for A.2; A.3; A.4; and C.l which are expected to be incurred before July 1982. These costs are
being fínanced from the technical assistance component of the Guayaquil Urban Development Project.



-14-
preliminary designs for three other towns, and preliminary planning for the
first upgrading area.  Cost estiinates for housing construction were based
on detailed designs and for commiunity facilities on unit costs of similar
buildings constructed during 1980. Desígn for 80% of civil works was
complete as of loan negotiation in March 1982. Cost estimates for home
improvement loans and urban upgrading were based on affordability
assumptions, construction costs, and expected demand. An average physical
contingency of 16% has been allowed (10% on housing construction costs, 15%
on the infrastructure costs for which pre-final engineering designs exist,
and 20% on the costs of all other pllysical works). The project includes
186 months of local consulting sierv:ices at an average cost of US$2,500 per
person-month and 24 months of foreign consultant services at an average
cost of US$11,300 per person-month; these costs include subsistence,
travel, and overheads.
3.06      General price inflation in Ecuador was 15% in 1981, and is
expected to continue at 15% through 1986. While international inflation is
expected to decrease gradually, national price inflation is expected to
continue at 15% because of creeping increases in the inflation of purely
local costs within the economy. Consistent with this scenario, price
contingencies for the foreign cost component of the project are 9.0% in
1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983-85, and 6.0% in 1986. Price contingencies
for the purely local cost component average 18.5% per year. The total
price contingency amounts to 28% of project costs. It is assumed that
Ecuador will not devalue again during the project period.
C. Financing
3.07      An IBRD loan of US$35.7 million is proposed.  The Bank loan would
bear a rate of interest of 11.6% and would be amortized over 17 years,
including a grace period of 4 years. The loan would finance 35% of total
project costs, implying 100% financing of the direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs (US$24.7 million) and 14% (US$10.5 million) of the local
cost of the project. Local cost financing is justified because of the need
to make a significant contribution to the project, and in view of the high
proportion of project benefits expected to reach the urban poor. It is
also reasonable in view of the policy changes already undertaken, and yet
to be undertaken, by BEV/JNV in connection with the project. The loan would
also finance the capitalized value (US$527,586) of the Bank's front-end
fee.
3.08      The Government would be the borrower.  JNV's obligations for
project execution would be included in the loan agreement. The Bank would
have a project agreement with BEV, and, as a condition for effectiveness of
the loan, Goverament would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with BEV
(para. 8.01(a)). The terms of the subsídiary loan agreement would include
Government's absorption of the fc,reign exchange risk (para. 8.02(a)(v)).
Government would agree to absorb the capital costs of health posts,
schools, and community centers (para. 8.02(a)(vi)), approximately S/475
million (US$15.8 million) including allocable land and infrastructure,
management, and interest during construction. Government would also insure
that funds would be available, from either local or national revenues, to
operate and maintain all public facilities (paras. 5.29 and 5.31). A draft
of the subsidiary loan agreement was reviewed at negotiation of the Bank
loan.



-15-
3.09      As shown in the project flow of funds (IBRD Chart 23223 in Annex
4), nearly the entire balance of project costs would be financed from BEV's
own resources, beneficiary downpayments, or initial repayments from
beneficiaries. The project would have a positive impact on BEV's finances
(paras. 6.12-18 and 6.22).
IV. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. New Housing
The Project Cities
4.01      The project would be located in Quito and nine secondary cities
(Ambato, Babahoyo, El Empalme, Esmeraldas, Machala, Quevedo, Quininde,
Riobamba, and Santo Domingo de los Colorados). Guayaquil was excluded from
the'project, because the Bank-financed Guayaquil Urban Development Project
is underway there, and because BEV/JNV has concentrated its resources in
1980-81 on its Guayaquil Emergency Plan (para. 1.16-17).
4.02      The proposed project is oriented towards secondary cities (57% of
the investment), correcting BEV/JNV's historical tendency to concentrate
investments in Quito and Guayaquil (70% of BEV's cumulative investment
through 1980). This project is not expected to significantly encourage
decentralized urban growth, since housing is not usually a major influence
on location decisions.  The inclusion of secondary cities in the project is
consistent, however, with the National Development Plan's concern that
secondary cities receive a larger share of public investment than in the
past.  The ten cities included in the project are shown in IBRD Map 15981.
4.03      The list of cities to be included in the project has changed over
the course of project preparation.   The final selection was made primarily
on the basis of a weighted average of the following indicators of need and
feasibility: (a) prevalence of unserviced settlements; (b) city population
and growth rate; (c) the city's development potential according to the
National Development Plan; (d) location of planned Government development
programs in the city; (e) availability of land; (f) proximity of off-site
infrastructure; and (g) ease of access for supervision purposes (para.
5.07).
4.04      The list of cities finally selected for the project includes
mostly medium-sized cities. It includes more cities in the Coast than in
the Sierra, reflecting the higher population growth rates and housing
demand of many Coastal cities. Adequate sites are available in all the
cities.
Types of New Housing Solutions
4.05      The distribution of new housing amnong the three types of shelter
units is roughly proportional to the distribution of households according
to income and affordability. No serviced lots without houses are planned
for the three cities in the Sierra, because the colder climate of the
Sierra would make it difficult for a family to occupy a serviced lot
without at least a one-room basic unit of durable materials.



-16-
4.06      Serviced Lots. The project would provide 3,150 urbanized lots
costing on average about US$2,700 each (in 1981 prices). Most lots would
be 90 m2 (6 m by 15 m). The lots would be sold to the beneficiary
families, providing them with security of tenure. Each would be
individually connected to water, sewerage, and electrical services, and
have access to either a vehicular road or pedestrian path. Each
neighborhood would have the benefit of public services such as community
facilities (para. 4.23), open spaces and space for parking, and
street-lighting.
4.07      Basic Units (Type 1). The project would provide 2,450 type-l
basic units at an average unit cost of US$5,700. A type-l basic unit would
consist of a serviced lot, plus 18.7 m2 of construction: one room and a
sanitary core (combination kitchen/bathroom/laundry).  Families would be
provided with municipally approved plans, indicating various ways in which
the basic unit could be expanded over time in accordance with the families'
changing financial situation. One typical basic unit design is shown in
World Bank diagram 23164.
4.08      Basic bnits (Type 2). The project would provide 2,600 type-2
basic units, each costing on average about US$6,900. A type-2 basic unit
is simply an expanded version of a type-l basic unit, initially providing
the family with 36.6 m2 of construction:  the multi-purpose room and
sanitary core, plus a space which can be fínished into two bedrooms.
Although this would be the highest-cost solution provided by the project,
model plans would be avaílable for further expansion. They allow
development alternatives, according to the family's needs and preferences.
New Housing Sites
4.09      Appropriate sites were selected on the basis of: (a) location;
(b) appropriateness for housing ¿[evelopment; (c) proximity to city center
and to centers of employment; (d) proximity to comamunity centers; (e)
available infrastructure; (f) topographical, geological, and ecological
considerations; and (g) land price.
4.10      Some sites suffer from problems which affect entire cities:
virtually all land in several coastal cities is floodable and requires
fill; land is scarce and high-priced in Quito, Ambato, and Esmeraldas; and
a number of sites may present difficulties in the provision and maintenance
of services because of general problems of municipal organization (paras.
5.30-31).   Despite such prohlems, however, all the sites JNV llas
identified are well-selected and appropriate.
4.11      BEV already owns sites in Quito, Quininde, Riobamba, Esmeraldas,
Machala, Quevedo, and Santo Domingo de los Colorados. Suitable sites have
been identified and are in the process of being acquired for Ambato,
Babahoyo, El Empalme, and the second Quito development.  All the project
sites would be acquired by the end of 1982 (para. 8.02(b)(vi)). BEV
routinely and efficiently acquires the land it needs for its projects, so
delays due to site acquisition problems are not expected.



-17-
Site Layouts
4.12      Lot sizes and layout efficiency were among the variables
considered in evaluation of the project's affordability (para. 7.03). Most
lots would be 90 m2, but on some sites, where land is particularly
expensive, lots of 72 m2 are planned. On the other hand, affordability
constraints may allow for lots larger than 90 m2 in one or two towns of the
Coast, where service levels would, of necessity, be low.
4.13      Indicators of layout efficiency vary according to the
characteristics of the different sites, but the following levels are not
untypical: (a) 60% of site area avallable for housing; (b) 25% of site area
devoted to circulation; and (c) 15% of site area devoted to community
facilities and green areas. Site development plans for Riobamba and Santo
Domingo de los Colorados are shown in IBRD maps 15982 and 15983.
4.14      IBRD concern about urban development norms (para. 1.28) led JNV
and CONADE to call a national seminar on urban development norms in
February 1981, including representatives from the municipalities and other
regulatory agencies. The seminar reviewed the implications of the
Government policy, enunciated in the National Development Plan, that urban
development norms should be adjusted to realistic levels.   The seminar
helped to increase acceptance by municipal and other regulatory officials
of more appropriate standards. The municipalities are still insisting on
standards somewhat above those the Bank and JNV's management have
advocated. Because of the seminar, however, JNV has been able to negotiate
municipal approval for project designs which would almost certainly have
been rejected before.  JNV intends, during project implementation, to work
toward yet more affordable designs than were available at appraisal, an
effort which will be a subject for evaluation by JNV's Planning Directorate
(para. 5.33).
On-site Infrastructure
4.15      Standards for on-site infrastructure vary somewhat from city to
city as a result of negotiations with the municipalities. BEV/JNV would be
free to relocate parts of the project, if, for site plans not yet approved,
any particular municipality should refuse to accept affordable standards.
The Municipality of Quito continues to insist on higher standards than
other municipalities, althouvh it has accepted lower norms for the
project's first Quito site than it had generally approved in the past.
Given the somewhat higher incomes of Quito's population, JNV's first Quito
site would thus respond to some of the backlog of demand for relatively
low-cost housing in Quito (Tables VII-1 and VII-2). Further reforms in the
Municipality's standards would, however, be required before the Bank would
agree to the second site planned for Quito (para. 7.05).
4.16      Service standards are, in summary, as follows (with unit costs
shown in Item B.1 of the Project File):
(a)   Water.  Pipes are generally asbestos-cement, and capacity ranges
from 150 liters per inhabitant per day to 300 liters per
inhabitant per day for the first Quito site (para. 4.15).



-18-
(b)   Storm-water drainage and sewerage.  The systems would be
constructed of plain concrete pipes.  In most cities of the
Sierra, the storm-water and sewerage systems would be mixed; in
most cities of the Coast, they would be separate.
(c)   Circulation.  Roads are mostly 10 or 16 m wide, depending on
anticipated use.  Surfacing would be packed earth, gravel,
cobbles, asphalt, or cement, according to affordability
constraints.
Off-site Infrastructure
4.17      BEV/JNV plans to purchase a temporary water purification plant
(capacity of about 30 liters per second) for its Quito site. This plant
would be transferred (on a grant basis) to the municipal water company for
use'elsewhere in about 1985, when a major expansion of water supply to the
city's southern extension is expected to be complete.  Other off-site
infrastructure would include 6 kms. of water pipe and a sewage collector or
treatment plant for the Esmeraldas site (para. 6.22).
B. Urban Upgrading
4.18      JNV's first slum upgrading program would be in Machala, in
cooperation with its exceptionally well-organized municipalty. The program
would actually be a hybrid upgrading/site-and-services program, so it would
give BEV/JNV experience in working with existing neighborhoods, but also
draw on their experience in building new urbanizations. The site, called
Ciudadela Venezuela, is a 40 ha. area where the Municipality has been
developing guided invasions ("sites-swithout-services"). The site is flat,
off-site infrastructure would not be problematic, and public transportation
to the city center (only 1 km.) is good. The Municipality has provided
some landfill and marked out roads, but the layout is very inefficient,
with inordinately generous lot sizes and road widths. About 700 of the
1,200 municipal lots are occupied, almost all with cane houses.
4.20      Plans for the upgrading are still preliminary, partly because
planning must be done in consultation with neighborhood residents, and it
would have been impolitic to consult them long before financing was
arranged. The proposal would be to service the unoccupied section of the
site and then move the existing houses to that section. This is feasible,
because the existing houses are light-weight and could be dismantled and
reassembled with relative ease.  The area where the people are presently
living would be developed into sites-and-services for additional families
once the present residents have moved.
4.21      The Municipality has agreed to provide residents with legal title
to the land, which is presently municipal property.  BEV would recover all
its costs from the Municipality, the Municipality, in turn, recovering
these costs from the residents through an urban betterment levy. The
Municipality of Machala has a goo¿L record of financial collections (with a
computerized control system).
4.22      Upgrading poses certain risks for BEV/JNV: relative technical
difficulty compared to new housing; possible cost-recovery problems; and an
increased likelihood of confliet writh local or national politicians.  By



-19-
July 1983 the Machala upgrading program should be about halfway complete,
and at that point BEV/JNV would evaluate its experience and exchange views
with IBRD on (a) whether it should proceed with additional urban upgrading
programs, and (b) whether to continue relying on municipal government for
cost recovery. The most likely cities for further upgrading programs would
be Esmeraldas, Quevedo, Babahoyo, and El Empalme. Funds have been included
for the upgrading of approximately 1,200 more lots. lf BEVIJNV and IBRD
were to agree, on the basis of the Machala program, to eliminate other
upgrading programs from the project, the additional funds (US$1.75 million
in 1981 prices) could be reallocated to the credit line for home
improvement loans (increasing it by about 13%).
C. Community Facilities
4.23      JNV plans to construct the following community facilities in new
housing areas and in the neighborhoods included in their programs of urban
upgrading:
(a)   10 schools (with kindergartens in the same buildings);
(b)   7 health centers
(c)   9 day-care centers;
(d)   14 community centers (with space, as necessary, for such public
services as post offices and fire protection equipment); and
(e)   1 police station (as required of any developer by municipal
regulation for a development the size of the first Quito site).
4.24      The architectural designs of the facilities, as of appraisal,
were generally appropriate. The designs proposed for the community centers
would have been unduly expensive, however; they are being redone, and would
be checked by IBRD staff before bids were invited. As noted in para. 5.22,
bidding documents for the first two contracts for each type of community
facility would be subject to prior review by IBRD.
D. Home Improvement Loans
4.25      BEV would make approximately 7,000 small loans in the ten project
towns. An estimated 40% of these loans would be directed to families in
the project's new housing areas, to assist them in building homes on the
serviced lots or expanding their basic units. The other 60% would be
directed to families in existing low-income neíghborhoods, to assist them
in expanding or improving their homes.
Sizes, Terms, and Conditions
4.26      The loans would range in size from a minimum of S/5,000 (US$167)
to maximums of S/100,000 (US$3,333) in existing low-income areas and
S/60,000 (US$2,000) in new housing areas (where beneficiaries would already
be paying for the contractor-built new housing). The interest rate on
home improvement loans would be 15% (para. 6.16), and terms would vary
between 5 and 15 years. Initial experience with BEV's home improvement
loan program in the Guayaquil Urban Development Project suggests that the
great majority of families in existing neiglhborhoods (90% to date in
Guayaquil) would opt for 5-year loans.



-20-
4.27      The size of the loan fund is based on tentative estimates of the
total number of loans and their l-ikely distribution according to size. The
estimated total number of loans was based on a very approximate judgment
regarding the size of loan prograrn which would be prudent given BEV's past
experience and administrative capacity. The range of sizes for individual
loans was estimated on the bas-is of income distribution surveys and the
costs of what are expected to be typical improvements.
Administration of Home Improvement Loans
4.28      BEV traditionally made individual loans only to a relatively few
well-off clients. Its first home improvement loan experience directed
toward low-income clients is now getting underway in Guayaquil, as part of
the IBRD-financed Guayaquíl Urban Development Project. The home
improvement loan program in the proposed project is not expected to begin
until project effectiveness, so that BEV/JNV would have more than a year of
experience with the Guayaquil program before launching similar schemes
nationwide.
4.29      BEV would make loans primarily in cash.  BEV would be able,
however, to provide certain materials, notably cement, more cheaply and
conveniently than most clients could obtain them from private suppliers.
BEV/JNV already has facilities and procedures for handling building
materials, so establishing materials stores on project sites would not be
unduly difficult. In any case, be.neficiary families would be free to
procure their materials from other sources. The Bank would disburse against
loans made by BEV (para. 5.23(a)), not against BEV's procurement of
materials for sale to borrowers of home improvement loans.
4.30      JNV technicians would provide minimal supervision of home
improvements, assisting families to themselves build or to supervise
informal-sector contractors. JNV would provide optional standard plans in
new housing areas. In Guayaquil, JNV has had to help prepare plans for
home improvements in existing areas, too, to facilitate municipal
approvals, but families may be able to obtain municipal approvals more
easily in certain other cities.
4.31      The home improvement loan program would begin at different times
in the various towns, generally following the construction schedule for
civil works. In Guayaquil, BEV has found it helpful not to make home
improvement loans for existing low-income neighborhoods available
everywhere at once, but to focus on one neighborhood at a time. Thus, they
can elicit the assistance of neighborhood organizations and avoid the
potentially high costs of supervising a scattering of loans throughout the
city.
E.  Project Management
4.32      Certain identifiable costs of project management have been
included as a component of the project. The salaries and benefits of staff
who would work full-time for the project represent 80% of these costs. The
required staff would consist of about 50 individuals in Quito for the
entire project period (33% of personnel costs) and a typical inerement of
15 individuals in each project town for the implementation period at that
site.  Project staff would be paid in accordance with regular BEV/JNV
salary scales.



-21-
4.33      In addition, the costs of project offices and of 16 vehicles have
been included in the project.  It would be inefficient not to use the
vehicles for other BEV/JNV business as convenient, but the number of
vehicles to be purchased is based on an estimate of project requirements,
and BFV management would make sure that sufficient vehicles were always
available for project execution.
F. Technical Assistance
Consultants
4.34      Consultants would be contracted to support project
administration, technical innovation in JNV, improved financial management,
and the preparation of future projects (para. 3.05, para. 8.02(a)(iv) and
(b)(viii)). Terms of reference for project-financed consultants are
outlined in Annex 1.
4.35      The project-financed technical assistance will be supplemented by
a grant program of technical assistance in the area of institutional
development from the technical assistance agency of the Federal Republic of
Germany, the Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) (para.
2.07). The main GTZ contribiition to BEV/JNV will be two experts for two
years each: one to continuously review JNV's internal institutional
development, and the other to assist developing JNV's statutory
policy-making function (especially in relation to municipal governments).
This support was detailed with JNJV by a GTZ mission which visited Ecuador
during field appraisal of the proposed IBRD loan, and GTZ headquarters have
confirmed to the Bank their intention to provide this assistance.
Training
4.36      BEV/JNV managers and project staff would benefit from training,
both abroad and in Ecuador, primarily in financial planning, management,
and in certain technical aspects of low-cost housing. Training would
include visits to similar projects in other Latin American countries.
JNV's Planning Directorate, in consultation with BEV's Finance Directorate,
would prepare an initial plan for staff training by May 1982 (as noted in
Annex 2).
Computerization
4.37      BEV's present computer system was probably never appropriate for
a bank, and is now out-of-date. It does not include terminals outside
Quito, and its funetions are limited. A recently contracted study of how
it might be adapted to BEV's current needs concluded that BEV's present
system should be turned over to JNV for its more limited requirements, and
that BEV acquire an entirely new system. Present cost estimates (including
both hardware and software) are based on this preliminary study, but BEV
would contract consultants to more carefully examine what type of system
should be acquired and to prepare bidding documents.
V. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Administration
5.01      Since this project is a multi-city slice of BEV/JNV's program,
and since one of its objectives is to support the overall institutional



-22-
development of BEV/JNV, it would be inappropriate to establish a separate
project unit for the purpose of implementation. Establishment of a project
unit would also go against BEV/JNV's present policy of dismantling the
various project units which were set up shortly after the change of
Government (para. 2.06).
5.02      On the other hand, somre clustering of project administration
functions and some project-speclfic buttressing of BEV/JNV's management
systems would be necessary in order to: (a) facilitate implementation of
the innovative aspects of the project; (b) meet special IBRD requirements
(most notably for disbursement, procurement, and accounting); and (c)
assure IBRD of timely implementation. Thus, the project would be
administered primarily by identified staff within BEV/JNV's normal
organization, supported by a project-focused system of coordination and
supervision.
5.03      Organizational arrangements for the project execution are
outlined in World Bank diagram 23428. BEV/JNV staff are presently
finalizing an organizational manual for the project, which is to be
forwarded to the Bank by May 1982.
5.04      Two key appointments were linked to processing of the IBRD loan.
The Project Manager was selected iín time to attend loan negotiations, and
the Project Coordinator's selection is a condition for loan effectiveness
(para. 8.01(b)).
5.05      The Project Manager wcould lead a project team within the
Technical Directorate of JNV.  He would be responsible for the
administration of the physical and social aspects of the project. These
are normally the responsabilities cf the Technical Directorate.
5.06      The Project Coordinator, an advisor to the President of BEV/JNV,
would oversee the entire project, particularly those aspects which are not
responsibilities of the Technical Dlirectorate and would thus fall outside
the authority of the Project Manager. Several other directorates of JNV
and BEV would include identified staff working full-time on the project,
whose salaries have been included in project costs. JNV's Legal
Directorate, for example, would help prepare procurement documents and
contracts, and JNV's Planning Directorate would be responsible for project
impact evaluation. When JNV's new Administration and Finance Directorate
is established, it would take over from BEV's Credit and Finance
Directorate responsibility for accounting, purchasing, inventory control,
and disbursement requests. The Project Coordinator would maintain lines of
communication and conduct occasional meetings with the various staff groups
involved in project execution. He would also be primarily responsible for
communications with the Bank.
5.07      Much of project administration would, of course, be carried out
at the level of the local BEV/JNV offices. The size and geographic extent
of the project were trimmed to what BEV/JNV, and its local offices in
particular, could comfortably handle. The number of cities originally
proposed was cut to ten, cities too distant from Quito and Guayaquil for
easy supervision were eliminated from the project, and the technical and
administrative capacity and experience of BEV/JNV local offices was
evaluated in relation to the size of program proposed for each city.
Depending on the amount of work to be done and the capacity of a given
office, the technical and social aspects of the project would be



-23-
administered either through the BEV/JNV office or by a special local team
of seconded and contracted staff. Responsibilities at the local level
would include supervision of contracts and payments for contracted
services.
B. Dealings with Beneficiaries
5.08      BEV/JNV's present system of dealing with beneficiaries is clearly
defined and works satisfactorily, so dealings with the beneficiaríes of
this project would generally follow established procedures.
Publicity and Selection
5.09      BEV/JNV advertises in the public media and sometimes through
meetings with employees of large enterprises. It advertises generally to
attráct savers and, more specifically, to announce programs under
construction.
5.10      BEVWs selection requirements are reasonable:
(a)   a stable family unit (not necessarily a male head of household or
a legal marriage);
(b)   appropriate land title:
(i)   for selection for new housing, the beneficiary must not
already be in legal possession of another home;
(ii)   for selection for a home improvement loan, the beneficiary
must be in legal possession of an unmortgaged home (or, up
to a limit of S/30,000, in the process of obtaining a
mortgageable title) in an area where provision of urban
services is feasible;
(c)   sufficient income to pay back the loan; and
(d)   a savings account in BEV (which may be opened upon application
for the loan, so that the downpayment is available when the loan
is to be made).
In addition, although it is expected that mainly lower-income families
would apply for the low-cost housing solutions provided by this project,
BEV would formally exclude from the project families with incomes in the
top 30% of the estimated income distribuition.
Contracts with Beneficiaries
5.11      BEV's contracts with beneficiaries and procedures for title
registration are satisfactory. The only restriction of note is that the
property becomes family patrimony, which means that the head of the family
cannot transfer the house to someone else, except to acquire another house
without BEV's consent. This policy was included in BEV's fundamental
enabling legislation; it protects the family in case of abandonment by the
head of the household.



-24-
Social Administration
5.12      This project would require a major increase in the number of
social work staff. In addition to tbe traditional functions of JNV's
social workers (selection interviews and home maintenance training), the
project-related social work staff would work with technical staff to assist
families in consolidating their homes. They would also help the residents
of the new housing areas organize to maintain and improve their
neighborhoods (paras. 5.31(a) and 7.15). Technical assistance is planned
(Annex 1, Section B, paras. 2-3), and training would be planned (para.
4.36), to help the enlarged social work staff assume their new functions.
Collection
5.13      BEV would be dealing with lower-income clients, so there is some
risk of collection difficulties (para. 7.34). However, BEV should be able
to handle the difficulties that may arise, since they have been able to
keep arrears on their present program to 3% of collectibles. Beneficiaries
would pay at BEV's offices or, for the two project cities where BEV
maintains no office, to a visiting representative of BEV.
C. Implementation Schedule
5.14      The project would be implemented over nearly a four-and-a-half
year period: early 1982 to mid-1986 (para. 5.27). Monitoring targets, key
indicators, and key dates (as revised and confirmed by BEV/JNV management
in March 1982 during loan negotiation) are shown in Annex 2.
5.15      BEV/JNV has acquired the land for seven of the project sites, and
suitable land for all the other sites has been identified and is being
acquired. Detailed engineering of the infrastructure for five of the new
housing sites was substantially completed by the time of negotiations in
March 1982 (para. 3.05).  BEV/JNV plans to commence work in mid-1982 on
infrastructure in four of the new housing sites. Detailed monitoring
targets for project implementation are also shown in Annex 2.
D. Procurement
5.16      In the past, BEV/JNV did most of its construction by force
account, but the present management of BEV/JNV has reformulated the
institution's procurement policies. Their present preference is to rely
primarily on national competitive bidding, but they are amenable to
complying with the Bank's ICB procedures where appropriate. The Bank's
procurement norms would apply to the whole project, including community
facilities and project administration, even though the Bank would not
disburse against these expenses (parao 5.23).
Works
5.17      Contracts for civil works valued at US$1 million or more,
totalling about US$12 million, wc,uld be awarded through international
competitive bidding procedures ir. accordance with Bank guidelines. These
represent about 24% of the total value of civil works, and are the
contracts in which foreign bidders are likely to be interested.  Except as
noted in para. 5.18 below, civil works contracts under US$1 million,
totalling about US$40 million, wc,uld be awarded through local competitive
bidding in which foreign companies with registered offices in Ecuador are



-25-
allowed to participate, using procurernent procedures acceptable to the
Bank. The construction industry in Ecuador is well developed, and, because
the bulk of the civil works would be made up of a large number of small
contracts in ten different cities, it is expected that most contracts would
be won by local bidders.
5.18      Much of the urban upgrading component may be more suitable for
execution by force account than contract, particularly because of community
involvement in planning and construction. The Bank would therefore retain
the option of agreeing to sone of these works being done by force account
up to a limit of US$5 million. The Bank would also retain the option of
agreeing to some of the civil works for new housing being carried out using
the cooperative labor of beneficiaries, where this would be feasible and
economical, up to a limit of US$5 million.
Equipment
5.19      The only major item of equipment, the computer and associated
software (valued at about US$800,000), would be procured by international
competitive bidding. About US$300,000 in office machines and furniture,
plus about US$200,000 worth of vehicles (16 vehicles costing about
US$12,000 each, the purchase of which would be spread over the first two
years of project implementation) would be acquired by local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Materials
5.20      BEV owns, or has shares in, factories that produce bricks,
timber, cement, sanitary ware, and concrete pipes (para. 6.11). Its normal
practice is to supply these materials to its contractors from its own
factories. Under the project it would offer to sell these materials to the
contractors, who would nonetheless be free to purchase them elsewhere.
5.21      Contracts for civil works and equipment would be grouped in
appropriate bidding packages, so that awards could be made for large or
small contracts, whichever were more economical.
Contract review
5.22      The first two civil works contracts of each type (i.e. roads,
sewerage, water supply, electricity, housing construction, schools,
clinics, community centers), as well as all civil works contracts or
contract packages over US$1 million and all goods contracts over
US$750,000, would be subject to prior review of bidding documents. This
would cover about 40% of total works contract value and 25% of goods value,
and would include a total of about 30 contracts. The balance of contracts
would be subject to review after signature on a selective basis. This prior
review coverage is deemed appropriate in light of BEV/JNV's prior
association with the Bank and its satisfactory performance on procurement.
E. Disbursement
5.23      Proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:



-26-
(a)   42% of: (i) total expenditures for materials and civil works for
new housing and urban upgra,ding, including engineering design and
supervision; and (ii) amounts disbursed for home improvement
loans;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditure and 42% of local expenditure for: (i)
technical assistance (including the computer and associated
software); and (ii) training.
The Bank would not not disburse for land, for community facilities (which
Government would be financing), nor for project administration.
5.24      Disbursements in respect of expenditures incurred for (i) civil
works under contracts, (ii) technical assistance, and (iii) training, would
be made against fully documented withdrawal applications. Disbursements in
respect of expenditures incurred for (i) civil works under force account,
(íi) engineering design and supervision carried out by in-house staff, and
(iii) home improvement loans, would be made against Statements of
Expenditures certified by BEV/JNV. Documentation supporting the Statements
of Expenditures would be retained by BEV/JNV and made available for
inspection by the Bank during the course of supervision missions.
5.25      US$1.3 million in final design costs are being partly financed
from the technical assistance component of the Bank's Guayaquil Urban
Development loan. Civil works contracts totalling up to US$3 million
(infrastructure on five new housing sites) could be signed before Board
presentation. Total expenditure on civil works before the estimated date
of loan signature (October 1, 1982) could be approximately US$2.0 million,
and another US$0.6 million would be spent by then on additional design
work and technical assistance. Thus, retroactive financing of US$1.1
million (42% of this planned expenditure) has been recommended. These
amounts of advance contracting and retroactive financing would maintain the
momentum of project preparation; without it, the reorientation of BEV/JNV's
ongoing program would be unnecessarily delayed by about nine months.
5.26      A schedule of estimated disbursements is also included in Annex
2.  It assumes a normal lag of six mc,nths between expenditures and Bank
reimbursement. The closing date of the loan would be June 30, 1987,
assuming, on the basis of other proje!cts in Ecuador, that final
disbursements would be made up to a year after the expected completion date
of the project.
5.27      The estimated disbursement period of five years is shorter than
the average for urban projects Bank-wide (nine years), for urban projects
in the Latin America region (eight: years), or for all projects in Ecuador
(eight years). The proposed project was designed, taking these past
experiences into account, to be implemented in less time. It is relatively
uncomplicated and risk-free compared to many of the Bank's earlier urban
projects. BEV/JNV's rapid expansion of its program over the last two
years, and especially its performance on the Guayaquil Emergency Plan
(para. 1.17), demonstrate its capability to administer this part of a
slow-growing overall program during the next four years (para. 6.19).
Start-up delays, which have been frequent in other urban projects, should
be largely avoided (para. 1.32), and the Project Coordinator (para. 5.06)
and implementation consultants (para. 5.34) should help to minimize delay.
Recent experience in Ecuador is that projects, like this one, which rely



-27-
primarily on banks and do not require much funding from the Government's
annual budget have been implemented much more quickly than other projects.
F. Maintenance and Operation
5.28      The bulk of project investment would become the property of
individual families. JNV would contribute to its maintenance by
introductory courses on home maintenance for project beneficiaries.
5.29      Schools and health posts (5% of total investment) would be turned
over to the Ministries of Education and Health for operation and
maintenance. BEV would transfer each facility to the appropriate ministry
by a separate contract, in which the ministry would assume responsibility
for its operation and maintenance.   This system has worked fairly well for
BEV's other programs, although there has sometimes been need for follow-up
fromi JNV and neighborhood residents to get the facilities equipped and
staffed. In the case of this project, Government had also committed
itself, through the loan agreement, to cause the Ministries of Health and
Education to adequately operate and maintain these facilities (para.
8.02(a) (vii)).
5.30      Community centers and residential infrastructure (roads, water
and sewerage, public lighting)--30% of total investment--would become the
responsibility of the municipalities. For the community centers, contracts
like those for the schools and health posts would be signed, by which BEV
would donate the center and the municipality, in turn, assume
responsibility for operation and maintenance. The municipality assumes
responsibility for operation and maintenance of infrastructure when it
approves a project, at the prellininary design stage and again after final
design. Operation and maintenance of all community centers and maintenance
of all infrastructure would cost roughly S/26 million (US$870,000) per
year, an average of S/l.8 million (US$60,000) per year for each of the
secondary cities involved. The increment would in no case amount to an
increase of more than 7% over the municipality's current annual
expenditures.
5.31      Two provisions of the proposed project would further minimize the
chance of inadequate municipal maintenance of project investments:
(a) As described in para. 5.12, JNV would help the residents of new
housing areas organize themselves.   At the present time,
municipal governments tend to meet the needs of low-income areas
mainly in response to organized pressure. It would be better if
this pattern were changed in time, but, for the present,
community organization is the best way to assure municipal
attention to project investments.
(b) Support can also be provided from Government, particularly since
the secondary-city municipalities presently depend on Government
for an average of about 30% of their resources. Government would
(para. 8.02(a)(víií)) assure the Bank that adequate Eunds would
be provided (either from municipal taxes and tariffs or from
transfers) to operate and maintain the project investments for
which the municipalities would be responsible.



-28-
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
Project Execution
5.32      On the basís of monthly reports from project staff in each town,
the Project Manager would prepare an overall report on the project each
month, to be distributed to responsible officials within BEV/JNV. He would
also prepare quarterly reports to IBRD, comparing actual progress to
physical and financial targets agreed during loan negotiation (Annex 2).
Project Impact Evaluation
5.33      While monitoring of project execution would be primarily the
responsibility of the Project Manager and Technical Directorate staff,
JNV's Planning Directorate, with responsibilities for evaluating all of
JNV's programs, would take the lead in evaluating the impact of this
project in relation to its stated objectives (para. 3.01). Outline terms
of reference for project impact evaluation are included in Item B.2 of the
Project File. Evaluation reports would be forwarded to the Bank, at least
annually, reviewing the project's impact and perhaps suggesting
modifications in project design. The Planning Directorate and the Project
Manager's team together would, within six months of the last IBRD
disbursement, prepare a project comnpletion report.
Consultant Support
5.34      BEV/JNV would contract- a senior consultant, with experience in
similar projects elsewhere, to visit Ecuador once a quarter and advise them
on project administration in general. Once a year, he would be accompanied
by a multi-disciplinary team, who would review the project from their
various points of view. To coincicle with these annual review missions,
BEV/JNV would organize annual meetiLngs of key staff involved in the project
(at headquarters and in the project: cities) to review progress and problems
together. In order to facilitate IBRD supervision, BEV/JNV would forward
the reports produced by these consultants, both quarterly and annually, to
IBRD.
VI. IFINANCIAL ANALYSIS
6.01      Since 1980, while BEV's programs have been reoriented toward the
needs of lower-income families, Government has not been able to contribute
as large a share of BEV's total resources as before, and BEV has had to
rely more on borrowing to finance continued growth. The need for full cost
recovery has become more pressing, and BEV has been hardening the terms of
its lending. In connection with the project, several additional reforms are
being implemented to secure BEV's financial future.
6.02      Key financial data are summarized in Table VI-1.  The development
of financial projections for BEV has been a particularly important aspect
of project preparation, and continued discussion on the basis of these
projections is expected to continue during project execution (paras.
6.15-18).  Detailed financial tables and underlying assumptions are
presented in Item B.3 of the Project File.



TABLE VI-I SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - BEV
(Míllions/Sucres)
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986       1987       1988
Total Resources
From Operations                  589      699    1,127    1,483    1,902    2,424    2,992          3,658      4,449
From Deposits                    885   1,037        700    1,177    1,369    1,581    1,764         1,957      2,149
From Decrease in Working Cap.  139         -         -        -        -         -         -          -            -
From Government Transfers        297      321       507       383       473      464       383         307        307
From Loans                       296   1,059    1,409    1,351    1,126    1,057           845         978      1,288
Total Resources                2,206   3,116    3,743    4,394    4,869    5,526    5,984           6,900      8,193
Less Debt Service              287      568       869       734       895    1,065    1,065         971        950
Net Resources                  1,919   2,548    2,874    3,660    3,974    4,461    4,919           5,929      7,243
Internally Generated Funds &
Deposits as % Investment         79      51        40        67        74       82       103        107        116
1)ebt Service  Coverage          2,1      1.2       1.3       2.0       2.1     2.3       2.8          3.8        4.7
Dehbt Equity                   30/70    35/65   48/52    46/54    44/56    41/59    38/62           36/64      34/66
Current Ratio                    1.2      1.7       2.7       3,3       3.4     3.5       4,7          6.5       14.2
Interest Coverage                1.2      1.0       1.0       1.3       1.4      1,7      2.5          3.5        4.9
Return on Equity C)               1         0         0       3         4        6        9           12         14
Return before Intere-st on
Total Assets (%)                 2          0         2       4         4        5        5                       6
Arrears(% Collectibles)          3.0      3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0     3,0       3,0          3.0        3,0



-30-
A. Past Performance
6.03      BEV's balance sheets for 1972-80 evidence rapid growth and
reasonably good financial management (except for subsidized interest rates)
during that period. Total assets increased by more than 10 times in
1972-80, while capital and reserves increased by more than 14 times. More
than a third of the growth in capital and reserves was due to funds
generated from operations. Working capital and liquidity were maintained
at adequate levels in relation to investment volumes (the average current
ratio was 4.3 to 1), and loan paymernts in arrears dropped from 4.0% to 3.0%
of collectibles. Return on equity virtually tripled, from 3.2% in 1972 to
9.5% in 1979, but the average return on equity over the period (7.1%) was
still substantially under the average annual inflation of 13%.
6.04      BEV's main sources of funds have been its own operations (34% of
resources 1977-80) and savings (33% of resources). BEV?s rapid growth
also depended on contributions from Government (averaging S/316 million
(US$13.0 million) or 21% of total resources 1977-80) and various
obligations which private banks, insurance companies, and some public
agencies are required by law to buy from BEV (another 7%). Borrowing
accounted for only 5% of BEV's fundEs during the 1977-80 period.
6.05      About 75% of savings deposits are demand deposits, currently
earning 9% interest for investors. The remaining 25% are fixed deposits
which pay rates from 10% per year for 6 month certificates to 14% for
certificates which exceed 2 years. BEV's rates are 1% above commercial
bank rates for similar deposits. As shown in the table below, deposits
showed a strong increase between 1980 and 1981:
1980      1981          Increase
(Silm)    (S/m)         (S/m)    (%)
Demand          1,540      1,900         360       23
Fixed             260        610         350      135
1,8100    2,510
6.06      BEV is authorized by law to issue bonds up to five times its
equity.  As of December 1980, outstanding issues amounted to about S/604
million, or approxímately 0.17 times; the 1980 equity figure. These bonds
are sold at nominal values without cliscounts, mature in 20 years, and have
yields of 7%.
B.  Present Position
6.07      As of the end of 1981, BEV's balance sheets showed total assets
of S/12,486 million (US$499 million). These assets were invested primarily



-31-
in housing loans, S/4,645 million (US$186 million), and in work-in-
progress, S/5,153 million (US$206 million). Of the S/2,688 million (US$108
million) remaining, 74% consisted of current assets.
6.08      The debt equity ratio in 1981 was 35/65.  As of 1981, cash and
other liquid assets totalled approximately S/1,982 million (US$79 million),
while short-term liabilities (less than one year) totalled S/799 million
(US$32 million). The resulting current ratio of 1.7 is about a 40% of the
average for the 1977-1980 period (4.3), reflecting increased levels of
short-term debt since 1980.
6.09      Government's priority commitment to housing is evidenced by the
fact that, despite two general budget cuts during 1981 (after the conflict
with Peru and again after an unexpected drop in international petroleum
prices), its contributions to BEV have been slightly increased. Most of
BEV'.s current expansion, however, is being financed by debt: to the social
security system and Ecuadorian Development Bank for the Guayaquil Emergency
Plan; to IBRi for the Guayaquil Urban Development Project and the proposed
National Low-Income Housing Project; and to USAID for the project being
developed in Quito (paras. 1.16-17).
6.10      BEV's present administration, in part compelled by the reality of
relatively smaller contributions available from the national budget, is
committed to a policy of full cost recovery. Early in the process of
preparing the proposed project, it was apparent that BEV would need to
raise its interest rates to avoid decapitalization. General price
inflation had risen from 10% in 1979 and 13% in 1980 to 15% for 1981.
Thus, in March 1981 BEV's board of directors abandoned its 7-12% scale of
interestrates, and began charging 12% on all new loans. Shortly after BEV's
decision to set its general interest rate at 12%, the Monetary Board
revised the entire spectrum of permitted interest rates for the banking
system. BEV decided to charge 14% for all the loans being made as part of
the Guayaquil Emergency Plan, which included the bulk of BEV's lendíng in
1981.
6.11      The present administration inherited ownership or part ownership
in five construction materials factories (para. 5.20). These had been a
minor but continuing drain on BEV's earnings, but BEV has recently also
taken steps to improve their financial performance. A separate unit has
been established to manage the factories in a more businesslike way, and
all the factories except the Selva Alegre cement plant are now at least
breaking even. Project technical assistance would include (Annex 1,
Section C, para. 4) a 90-day consultant's study of BEV's options regarding
its factories. This study would not cover the cement plant, because
Government raised cement prices 60% this year (partly in response to
Bank insistence in connection with the Fourth Industrial Development
Project), so that the cement plant should reach breakeven in the near
future. For the other factories, however, the consultants would review the
possibilities for divestment to the private sector, as well as for improved
performance under BEV management.
6.12      Despite recent improvements in some areas, BEV's financial
situation is not satisfactory. BEV's most obvious financial problem lhas



^-32-
been its low interest rates.  Nothing can be done about the portfolio of
long-term low interest-rate loans BEV has inherited from the 1970s, but
BEV's management raised interest rates twice in 1981 (para. 6.10), and,
partly in response to Bank concern, has recently raised its interest rate
for all loans to 15%.  Moving from interest rates as low as 7% to 15% for
all loans in one year is an impressive accomplishment.
6.13      The present rate of 15% is just equal to the present and expected
rate of inflation. BEV's current int,erest rate of 15% compares favorably
with its average nominal cost of capital of 10%, and with the 9% rate of
interest BEV pays on 75% of its deposits.
6.14      BEV has agreed to annually review and if necessary revise, in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, its interest rates and its system of
pricing the housing it sells. BEV will achieve an average financial rate
of return for its housing sales and credit operations for each twelve-month
period which shall not be negative in real terms, taking into account,
inter alia, variations in the national Consumer Price Index (para.
8.02(b)(iii). Even if the National Monetary Board were to limit BEV's
interest rates, BEV could achieve a non-negative financial rate of return
on its housing operations by adding financial charges into the prices of
its housing.
6.15      A second major financial problem has been inadequate financial
management. BEV still operates on the basis of an annual budget and its
financial reporting is of uneven usefulness for purposes of financial
planning. BEV developed financial projections for itself only during the
course of project preparation. The project includes technical assistance
(Annex 1, Part C, para. 1) to help BEV develop these projections into a
full system of financial management information. Until recently, management
was pressing to produce as much housing as possible, without full
information on BEV's financial limitations or much attention to cost
efficiency. If recent trends were to continue, administrative expenses for
1981-85 would be twice what they were in 1977-80. Also, the value of work
in progress at the end of 1981 was 63% higher than at the end of 1979 and
there were delays in the final sales of two large housing projects, one in
Quito and one in Guayaquil. These factors led to operational losses for
BEV in 1981 and are expected to produce a loss for 1982 as well. Both of
the two large housing projects are 80% complete as of April 1982, so that
the losses are not expected to continue into 1983.
6.16      BEV has agreed to establish, by March 31, 1983, and to maintain
thereafter, a financial reporting and management information system (as
defined in Annex 1, Part C, para. 1). It will furnish to the Bank, by
March 31 in each year, information about modifications in its financial
projections and about measures being taken to maintain BEV's solvency
(para. 8.02(b)(v)). Numbers of personnel and works in progress would be
routinely nonitored as part of project supervision (Annex 2, Table 2). BEV
has also agreed to adopt by March 31, 1983, a statement of financial
policy, having provided the Bank, by December 31, 1982, with a draft of
this statement for its comment (para. 8.02(b)(iv)).
6,17      A third problem has been a rapid increase in BEV's debts in the
context of an inadequate internal information system for debt management.



-33-
As loans that have already been finalized come on stream over the next five
years, BEV's level of discretionary debt will quadruple from the 1980
level. These loans were contracted without full information about BEV's
capacity to service its debts. BEV's debt service coverage ratio dropped to
1.2 in 1981 and 1.3 in 1982.  However, taking only those loans already
arranged (as listed in Item B.3 of the Project File) into account, it is
projected to return to 2.0 in 1983 and to rise gradually thereafter.
6.18      BEV has agreed not to contract any additional loans until
repayment of the Bank loan, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
unless a reasonable forecast shows internal cash generation in all future
years to be at least 1.3 times projected debt service, including service on
the debt to be contracted (para. 8.02 (b)(ii)).
C. Future Finances and Financing Plan
6.19      Taking BEV's higher interest rates into account and assuming BEV
would not contract more debts than are presently agreed, the projections
presented in Item B.3 of the Project File result in BEV's total application
of funds continuing to grow at an average of 14% a year through 1986.
BEV's spending jumped dramatically (by 44%) from 1980 to 1981, so that even
a 14% rate of growth would result in average annual spending in 1982-86
(S/4,903 million, US$163 million equivalent) at almost double the level of
1977-81 (S/2,410 million, US$96 million). BEV/JNV's successful execution
of its 1981 program demonstrates its capacity for the projected level of
investment, but several years of slower growth would allow BEV/JNV to
conserve its financial strength, consolidate its institutional development,
and introduce the more innovative approaches to low-cost housing included
in the project.
6.20      BEV's financing plan 1982-86 is shown in Table VI-2 below:
Table VI-2: BEV Financing Plan 1982-86
Applications                            S/Million       US$Million         %
A.  Proposed Project                     2,851.0            95.0          14
B.  Other Housing Projects              11,811.0          394.0           60
C.  Land Acquisition                     1,000.0            33.0           5
D.  Additions to Working Capital         2,659.0            89.0          13
E.  Additions to Cash                    1,566.0            52.0           8
19,887.0          663.0         100
Sources
A.  Internal Resources                  16,518.0
Less Debt Service                 4,628.0
Net Internal Resources              11,890.0          396.0          60
B.  Loans                                5,788.0           193.0          29
C.  Budgetary Contributions              2,210.0            74.0          11
Total Sources                    19,887.0           663.0         100



-.34-
Project expenditures in 1982-86 are expected to represent about 14% of
BEV's overall 1982-86 investment program and about 24% of the housing
investment in the program.
6.21      During the project implementation period BEV would also complete
its components of the Guayaquil Urbani Development Project (US$14 míllíon)
and the USAID-financed low-cost housing project in Quito (US$12.6 million)
(paras. 1.16-17). In addition to the Bank and USAID-guaranteed loans, the
major source of external financing would be an expected annual transfer of
nearly US$19 million equivalent from Government. Variations in budgetary
contributions would not adversely affect BEV's ability to carry out the
project. Instead, they would determ:ine the level of non-project investment
that BEV could support.
D. Cost Recovery
6.22      Ninety percent of project costs (including off-site
infrastructure, administration, and interest during construction) would be
recovered from beneficiaries at a ralte of interest of 15% (equal to general
inflation, which is expected to continue at 15% (para. 3.06)), over periods
varying between 5 and 20 years. Non--recoverable Government expenditures
for community facilities (para. 3.08) represent 8% of total project costs.
The cost of technical assistance, 2% of total costs, would be borne by BEV.
6.23      Total project cost would b,s equivalent to about 0.7% of total
public sector expenditures during thie project period. Non-reimbursable
expenditures from the Central Government budget for the project community
facilities would amount to 0.1% of public sector expenditures during the
implementation period.  Thereafter, annual maintenance costs for schools
and clinics, plus a likely share (30%) of Government support for
incremental municipal expenses (para. 5.31), would amount to S/10.4 million
(US$0.4 million) per year, equivalent to less than 0.001% of annual public
sector expenditures.
VII. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL JUSTIFICATION
7.01      This project should directly benefit approximately 81,000 people
in Quito and nine secondary cities (para. 7.06). About half of the
investment would contribute to the alleviation of the shelter problems of
Ecuador's population below the absolate poverty line (para. 7.09). The
economic rate of return on the project is expected to be 18% (para. 7.29).
7.02      Beyond these immediate social and economic benefits, the project
would also support the general reorientation of BEV/JNV toward lower-income
clients, at the same time assisting IBEV/JNV in maintaining its financial
viability and expanding its institutional capacity. The project would
provide a national demonstration of innovative (for Ecuador) and affordable
approaches to low-cost housing, bringing building codes down to more
realistic levels throughout the country. The benefits of these
institutional developments should extend well beyond the scope and time
frame of the project itself.



-35-
A. Social Analysis
Affordability and Number of Beneficiaries
7.03      Affordability.  The primary criterion for project design has been
affordability to lower-income clients. Detailed discussions and technical
assistance during preparation have heightened cost consciousness in JNV's
Technical Drectorate, and affordability evaluation has now become a routine
feature of JNV's normal process of project preparation. Estimates of
income distribution for Quito and for secondary cities are shown in the
Project File (Item B.1). The results of the affordability analysis for
Quito and the weighted average results for the nine secondary cities are
shown in Table VII-1.
7.04      Affordability analysis is subject to two types of planning
weaknesses which are difficult to avoid: (a) errors in estimating income
distributions and (b) different rates of increase in costs and incomes over
the project period. If, for example, our estimates of incomes are 10% lower
than is actually the case, or if costs when the housing is actually built
have gone up 10% more than incomes, the percentages of the population that
would be able to afford the various housing solutions (the figures in the
last row of Table VII-1) would all increase or decrease by about five
percentage points.
7.05      In order to minimize the chance of failing to achieve the
project's intended poverty impact, the affordability targets in Table
VII-2, which are consistent with the appraised results in Table VII-1,
would be specified in a schedule to the loan agreement. JNV would maintain
current calculations of affordability, incorporating any presently
unforeseen changes in costs and current estimations of income
distribution. They would provide the Bank at least annually with these
estimates, along with any revised planning which may be necessary to comply
with these affordability targets (para. 8.02(a)(ii)). Designs might have
to be modified during the course of project implementation in view of
better data on incomes or relative changes in incomes compared to costs, in
order that the appraisal affordability targets be met. For the second Quito
site, which has yet to be designed, the Bank would not accept average
affordability results worse than those indicated in Table VII-2. Should
the Municipality of Quito refuse to approve design standards which meet
these affordability targets, JNV would be required to build in secondary
cities instead, following the affordability targets agreed for secondary
cities.
7.06      Number of Beneficiaries.  The project should directly benefit
approximately 81,000 people (14,800 families). Most of these, about 8,200
families, would benefit from the new housing component. Another 4,200
families would receive benefits from home improvement loans outside the new
housing areas, and 2,400 would benefit from JNV's program of urban
upgrading. The estimate of 81,000 beneficiaries does not include families
benefiting from creation of an estimated 12,000 person-years of
construction jobs directly generated by the project during its
implementation period.



Table VII-1: Results of Affordability Analysis
Quito                  _                              Secondary Cities
Home                                                             Home
Basie Unit      Basic Uit       Improvement                      Basic Unít       Basic Unit    Improvement        Urban
(Type 1)         (Type 2)          Loans        Serviced Lot       (Type 1)        (Type 2)         Loans        Upgrading
1.  Number of units available              1,185           1,815            2,400 a/        3,154           1,251              808           1,800 al       2,400
2.  Average unit cost b/               US$5,700        US$6,900         US$2,100         US$2,700        US$5,700        US$6,900        US$2,100        Us$1,600
3.  Monthly family income level         S/7,965          S/9,506         S/3,392         S/3,656          S/7,421         S/9,000         S/3,392        S/2,354
to which, on average, unit         (US$266)           (US$317)       (US$113)       (US$129)          (US$247)        (US$300)      (US$113)         (US$78)
js affordable el
4.  Percentage of urban families            64%             55%             93%             81%             49%               39%            83%           92%
to which, on average, unit is
affordable
a/  Outside new housing areas.
bl  In calculating affordability, the costs of administration and interest during construction were added to the unit costs shown here.
Updated actual purchase price of land was used instead of cadastral valuie.
c/ Assuming 25% of income devoted to housína and 15% downDavment.
Table VII-2: Affordability Targets for New Housing
Percentage of Famílies
Percentage of new           with Incomes High
Housing to be Pro-          Enough to be able to
In                                  vided by the Project        Afford these Solutions
Quito                                            about 40%                     about 65%
about 60%                     about 55%
Secondary Cities                                 about 60%                     about 80%
about 25%                     about 50%
about 15%                     about 40%



-37-
Urban Poverty Impact
7.07      The absolute poverty threshold for urban Ecuador is estimated at
US$223 per family per month at mid-1981 prices (which, assuming 5.5 people
per family, equals US$487 per capita per year). A typical family with an
income below this threshold is unlikely to be able to afford even a
calorie-adequate diet (about 2,250 calories of a typical starch-based
diet). An estimated 37% of households in Ecuador's urban population have
incomes below this level.
7.08      The project is intended to support an overall reorientation of
BEV/JNV programs toward lower-income clients. It is not focused entirely
on the shelter needs of families below the absolute poverty threshold.
Since there are technical and financial risks in shifting to a lower-income
clientele (paras. 7.33-34), too radical a shift would be inadvisable.
7.09      Nevertheless, an estimated 49% of the total project investment is
attributable to the population below the absolute poverty threshold. This
compares, for example, to the estimated of 24% of BEV/JNV's 1976-77 program
which was then, at subsidized interest rates, affordable to families below
this threshold.
7.10      As detailed in the Project File (Item B.1), the poverty impact of
home improvement loans and urban upgrading is much higher, proportionately,
than the poverty impact of the new housing component. This was clear early
in project preparation, but home improvement loans and urban upgrading will
be relatively new experiences for BEV/JNV, whereas they have a proven
record in providing new housing. It is sensible to concentrate most of
their resources on doing better what they know they can do well, at the
same time entering into promising new programs on a smaller scale.
7.11     The population served by the project would amount to about 6% of
the total population of the ten project towns, and the number of poor
families who are expected to benefit directly from the project (5,500) is
about 6% of the population below the poverty threshold in the project
towns.
7.12      Beyond these direct beneficiaries, other poor people should
benefit through the rental market. In addition to the 5,500 housing
solutions (either new or upgraded units) expected to benefit the poor
directly, another 4,300 solutions would be affordable to the poor, but
would probably be taken by families above the poverty threshold. In all,
the 8,800 affordable housing solutions would be equivalent to about 10% of
the present housing stock of the poor. It should have some effect on the
rental market, keeping rents below what they would have otherwise have
been.
7.13      These indirect benefits to the poor are particularly important in
the secondary cities of the Sierra, where most poor families are renters,
and where, because of high land costs and a relatively harsh climate, none
of the new project housing would be affordable to families below the
poverty threshold. JNV social workers have, in the past, given clients the
impression that it was prohibited for them to rent rooms in JNV-built
houses. The social workers' advice seems to have been widely disregarded



-38-
in any case, but, in response to IBRD concern, JNV's management has now
clarified that room rental is permitted.
B. Economic Analysis
7.14      Preliminary cost-benefit analysis early in the project cycle led
to the inclusion of two fast-growing towns in the project and the
elimination of several slower-growing towns. It indicated that rates of
return, in general, tend to be higher in larger cities; however, given
adequate rates of return in secondary cities, the Government wanted to
decentralize investment in housing for social, political, and demographic
reasons.
7.15      Early analysis also indicated that rates of return tend to be
higher in the Sierra than in the Coast, where low-income people can more
easily "solve" their housing problem by "invading" public or private land.
Invasions are socially undesirable and ultimately quite costly to
residents as well as to public authorities, but economic analysis
highlighted the possibility that participation in illegal invasions might
somewhat reduce effective demand for sites-and-services. A low-income
family thinking of buying into a new sites-and-services area would be
attracted by the advantages of legal tenure, order, and relatively complete
services, but would think twice about the comparatively high cost to them
which the project's policy of full cost recovery implies. The alternative
of an invasion would offer fewer advantages to the family, but invasions
have usually been able (in due course) to get public authorities to provide
rudimentary services completely free-of-charge. This line of analysis led
JNV to decide on expanding its social staff, in order to help
sites-and-services communities organize themselves. It is envisioned that
the new communities would work together politically, as well as through
self-help efforts, for further improvements in their neighborhoods.
7.16      Appraisal calculations, detailed below, confirm that rates of
return are satisfactory for all project components. Cost and benefit
streams are shown in Item B.1 of the Project File.
With/Without Project Assumptions
7.17      With the project, it is assumed that the works described in
Chapter IV would be carried out according to the appraised implementation
schedule. The life of the project works is assumed to be 25 years.
Without the project, it is assumed that the informal processes by which
low-income families now obtain shelter would continue unchecked. The
shelter thus provided would mostly be of lower quality, and the costs of
upgrading it to standards to be achieved with the project would be much
higher than project costs.
7.18      In the Coast, the proliferation of illegal squatter settlements
would continue.  Squatter "invasions" often occasion conflicts and violent
confrontations with landowners and public authorities. The eventual
provision of services tends to be quite costly, because squatters often
occupy undesirable land, lay-outs are inefficient, and the execution of
civil works in a settled area is relatively cumbersome.  Finally, the land
tenure situation tends to remain unclear for many years, discouraging
residents from investing in the repair or improvement of their homes.



-39-
7.19      In the Sierra, the typical situation without the project would be
that the poor would continue to be provided with shelter by the
deterioration of housing originally built for higher-income people.
Crowding would continue to be acute and quality would be below what the
project is designed to produce.
Project Costs and Quantifiable Benefits
7.20      Costs and benefits have been estimated separately for the
project's three main components:  new housing (including home improvement
loans to be made in the new areas), other home improvement loans, and urban
upgrading.
7.21      Economic costs include direct costs, design and supervision,
administration, physical contingencies, and a market price for land
(approximately 33% above cadastral value). Custom duties, about 8% of
materials costs, have been subtracted from the relevant cost streams.
7.22      Costs of the new housing component include the costs of self-help
housing construction, both labor and materials (financed from both project
and non-project sources). A reasonable pattern of house expansion from the
initial levels provided by the project is assumed. Similarly, in
calculating the cost streams for home improvement loans, it has been
assumed that beneficiaries would add supplementary resources to the home
improvements.
7.23      The benefits of both the new housing component and the home
improvement loan component have been imputed from rental data for housing
comparable to what the project is expected to produce. These imputed
figures are based on BEV/JNV field surveys of rents and prices and on IBRD
mission comparisons.
7.24      The benefits of urban upgrading were estimated based on property
value data. Information on changes in property values is available for
small, grant-financed upgrading projects in Quito and Guayaquil.
Comparisons were also made between serviced and unserviced land in Machala,
the town where the first upgrading program would be undertaken.
7.25      The `with and without" project assumptions described above
(paras. 7.17-19) imply that project benefits should also take into account
the savings resulting from avoiding the lower-quality, higher-cost
development which would result if the project were not done. Based on
current experience in attempting to improve existing squatter areas, it is
estimated that without-project costs would have to be at least 25% higher
than with-project costs to achieve the same level of benefits.
Non-quantifiable Benefits
7.26      Community Facilities.  Many of the benefits of community
facilities are not entirely captured by increases in rental values, and, in
any case, these public facilities are likely to serve people outside the
project housing areas as well as those within them. The health centers and
schools should contribute to the health and education of the population.
One reason for including space in the schools for preschool care is that
low-income women in Ecuador usually have to work outside the home, and



-40-
neglect of small children left at home is not uncommon.  Community centers
would be used for community organization, cultural events, and to house
common services such as telephones and post offices.
7.27      Technical assistance.  Less than 10% of the cost of technical
assistance and training is attributable to execution of the civil wórks
aspect of the project, and even that should also have an impact on the
overall institutional development of BEV/JNV.   About 40% would be focused
on such broad institutional goals as the introduction of new approaches to
low-cost housing, improvement of BEV's financial management, and support in
the preparation of future projects. Nearly 50% would be devoted to the
purchase and installation of a new computer system for BEV, which should
improve efficiency and reduce administrative costs. If the computer were
to reduce staff time for BEV's financial administration by 10%, it would
more than pay for itself in three years (and more than pay for the entire
technical assistance component in six years), but its economic rate of
return is difficult to estimate with any degree of accuracy.
Internal Economic Rate of Return
7.28      In summary, benefits can be quantified for the three main
components of the project (new housirig, urban upgrading, and home
improvement loans).  Together with prorated shares of project management,
this amounts to 90% of total project costs.
7.29     Based on the assumptions and calculations above, the overall rate
of return is 18%. Table VII-3 shows (in the uppermost row) the rate of
return for the three main components together (18%), and for each of them
separately: 17% for new housing, 21%, for home improvement loans, and 41%
for urban upgrading.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.30      The righthand column of Table VII-3 shows, as a form of
sensitivity analysis, what the IERR would be if the costs of community
facilities and technical assistance (for which benefits are not easily
quantifiable) were added to the cost streams of the major components
without any addition to the benefit streams. The lower rows of the table
show: (a) what would happen if actual benefits were 10% lower, actual costs
10% higher, or both; and (b) what would happen if the delivery of benefits
were delayed by 1-3 years with no concomitant delay in costs.
7.31      These analyses indicate that the project's rate of return is not
very sensitive to variations in costs and benefits, but more sensitive to
delays between costs and benefits.. For the reasons noted in para. 5.27,
slippage from the appraised implementation schedule is not expected, and
the risk of delays between costs and benefits is even lower than the risk
of delays in both costs and benefits.
C. Risks anl Replicability
Risks
7.32      This project is not fraught with serious risks.  The risks of
difficulties during implementation were minimized during project



Table VII-3: IERR and Sensitivlty Analysis
All
New Housing,                                                Neighborhood        Componenta Including
Home Improvement Loans,   New Housing    Home Improvement           Upgrading        Community Facilities
Neich,bor,hood Uporadin2 al    Only           Loans Only              Cnly          mnd Technical Assistance bl
Percentage
IERR                            18                    17                21                   41                      16
Actual Benefits are 10%
higher than estimated                  21                     19               23                    49                      19
Actual Benefits are 10%
lower than estimated                   15                     14               18                    33                      14
Actual Costa are 10%
higher than estimated                  16                     14               18                    34                      14
Actual Costa are 10%
higher and Acual
Benefits are 10% lower                 13                     12               16                    28                      12
Benefits delayed:  1 year                14                     13               17                    26                      13
2 years              12                     11               14                    19                      11
3 years              10                     10               12                    16                       9
a/ All components with quantifiable benefita.
b/ Including the costs, but no concomitant benefits, of community facilities aud technical assistance.



-42-
preparation by including only one institution in the project, by focusing
on one component (new housing) with which the institution already has long
experience, and by thorough in-house preparation.
7.33      The two most significant risks that remain are both implicit in
the reorientation of BEV/JNV toward lower-income clients. First, JNV might
experience some difficulties in implementing the relatively new approaches
to low-cost housing this project involves (self-help construction, home
improvement loans, and urban upgrading). But these aspects of the project
have been kept to manageable proportions (paras. 4.22 and 4.27), and
consultants would be contracted to assist in their implementation (Annex 1,
Section B).
7.34      A second risk would be t.hat BEV would have difficulty in
collecting from low-income borroweirs or that its reorientation toward the
poor would have a negative impact on its ability to attract savings from
middle-income families.  BEV's low cu,rrent level of arrears (para. 5.13)
indicates a capacity for dealing with the perhaps increased difficulties of
collecting from lower-income families, and BEV's shift to a lower-income
clientele would not be so radical as to alarm middle-income savers.
Savings in BEV have, in fact, increased since BEV/JNV shifted to building
more and cheaper houses, so increasing numbers of savers may more than make
up for the loss of savings from better-off clients which BEV may suffer.
7.35      A third risk, that municipal maintainance for certain public
facilities might be inadequate, has been minimized by the measures
discussed in para. 5.31.
Replicability
7.36      The project would, in several respects, strengthen the capacity
of BEV/JNV to repeat in other progratns what it would be accomplishing .n
this project. The project would improve BEV/JNV's financial situation
(paras. 6.12-18 and 6.22) and support: its institutional development
(paras. 2.19 and 2.21). The somewhat: innovative approaches to low-cost
housing included in the project (sites and services, home improvement
loans, urban upgrading) would be continued in BEV/JNV's other programs. In
this respect, it is encouraging that JNV staff now routinely evaluate the
affordability of other programs (para. 7.03).  Also, the management of
BEV/JNV has recently initiated the development of sites and services in
Guayaquil with some of BEV's unalLocated investment funds (para. 6.20).
7.37      Even though this project: is fully replicable, it is not expected
that simply repeating it over and over could, by itself, solve the housing
problems of Ecuador's low-income population.  The need, in the cities
alone, is too great to be met by t:he expansion of any one public institu-
tion. The Bank has thus already raised issues about two sets of Ecuadorian
institutions which are also in need of reform: the savings-and-loan
associations and secondary-city municipalities (paras. 1.29-30). If the
housing needs of Ecuador's urban pool- are to be adequately addressed, the
savings-and-loan system should also, in time, redirect its energies to
include the financing of more low--cost housing, and the municipalities
should become more efficient in providing basic urban services. Finally,
the private construction industry will have to move beyond its current role



-43-
of building elements of projects designed and managed by BEV/JNV, taking
greater responsibility for development and marketing of housing which is
affordable to the raajority of the population.
7.38      This project would be a necessary step toward such further
reforms. It would demonstrate the technical and financial feasibility of
low-cost housing solutions which could later be replicated by both public
and private developers. Then, too, BEV/JNV is well placed to influence
other institutions in the sector (para. 1.33). As the central institution
for the savings-and-loan system, BEV would be able to support a future
reorientation of the savings-and-loan associations, once BEV's own
reorientation is consolidated.  As JNV broadens its activities from housing
construction to address its responsibilities for urban development policy,
Government may want to assign JNV some role in its effort to strengthen the
municipalities of secondary cities. This will be one option raised when
the Bank's analysis of secondary city municipalities (para. 1.30) is
discussed with Government. The existing strengths of BEV and JNV, their
potential to become yet more efficient, and their prospects for influencing
numerous other institutions, suggest a possíbility for future sector lend-
ing. Government, IBRD, or other international lenders might lend through
BEV to other institutions in the sector, at some point delegating to
BEV/JNV much of the work of project appraisal and supervision.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      At loan negotiation it was agreed that before effectiveness of
the loan:
(a), Government and BEV should enter a subsidiary loan agreement
satisfactory to the Bank (SAR para. 3.08); and
(b)   the Coordinator for the National Low-lncome Housing Project
should be selected (SAR para. 5.04).
8.02       It was also agreed, as permanent conditions of the loan:
(a)   in the Loan Agreement that Government would:
(i)   cause JNV to provide to the Bank, for its comment, by June
30, 1983, a report on the institutional development of JNV,
including information and evaluation regarding changes in
its organizational structure, systems of project preparation
and appraisal, and systems for planning and for coordination
with BEV (SAR para. 2.08, Loan Agreement (LA) Section 3.04);
(ii)   cause JNV to furnish the Bank, not later than November 30 of
each year, a report on current estimates of income
distribution, costs, and planning for compliance with the
affordability targets specified in Table VII-2 (SAR para.
7.05, LA Section 3.03 and Schedule 5);
(iii)   cause JNV to provide the Bank, by December 31, 1982, with
(a) a reasonable overall construction program for JNV during
the project period, and (b) fully evaluated plans for an as
yet unidentified site (the second new housing site in



-44-
Quito), showing that social, financial, and technical
criteria have been taken into account (SAR para. 2.19, LA
Section 3.05);
(iv)   cause JNV to contract necessary consultants whose selection,
qualifications, and terms of employment are satisfactory to
the Bank (SAR para. 4.34, LA Section 3.02);
(v)   absorb the foreign exchange risk of the Bank loan (SAR para.
3.08, LA Section 3.01(c)(ii));
(vi)   absorb the capital costs of the community facilities
included in the project (SAR para. 3.08, LA Section
3.01(c)(vi));
(vii)   cause the Ministries of Health and Education to adequately
operate and maintain the health posts and schools (SAR para.
5.29, LA Section 3.06(ii)); and
(viii)   insure that adequate funds are provided to operate and
maintain community centers, streetlights, roads and water,
drainage and sewerage infrastructure (SAR para. 5.31(b), LA
Section 3.06(i)).
(b)   in the Project Agreement that BEV would:
(i)   provide to the Bank, for its comment, by June 30, 1983, a
report on the institutional development of BEV, including
information and evaluation regarding changes in its
organizational structure, systems of project preparation and
appraisal, and systems for planning and for coordination
with JNV (SAR para. 2.09, Project Agreement (PA) Section
2.13);
(ii)   except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not contract any
additional loans until the repayment of the loan, unless a
reasonable forecast shows internal cash generation in all
future years tc, be at least 1.3 times BEV's projected debt
service, including service on the debt to be contracted (SAR
para. 6.18, PA Section 4.03);
(iMi)  annually, before the anniversary of loan signing, review and
if necessary revise, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
the interest rates charged by BEV on housing loans, within
the limits set by the Monetary Board, and the system for
pricing the housing it sells to achieve an average financial
rate of return for its housing sale and credit operations
for each twelve-month period which shall not be negative in
real terms, taking into account, inter alia, variations in
the national Consumer Price Index (SAR para. 6.14, PA
Section 2.08);
(iv)  adopt by March 31, 1983, a statement of financial policy for
BEV, having provicled the Bank, by December 31, 1982, with a
draft of this statement for its comments (SAR para. 6.16, PA
Section 2.09);



-45-
(v)  establish by March 31, 1983, and maintain thereafter, a
financial management information system (as defined in Annex
1, Part C, para. l), and furnish to the Bank, by March 31 in
each year thereafter, beginning in 1984, information about
modifications in these projections and about measures being
taken to maintain BEV's solvency (SAR para. 6.16, PA Section
2.10);
(vi) acquire all the land necessary for the project by December
31, 1982 (SAR para. 4.11, PA Section 2.11);
(vii) maintain an auditing system which is satisfactory to the
Bank and provide the Bank, within four months of the close
of each year, external auditing reports satisfactory to the
Bank (SAR para. 2.15, PA Sections 4.01-02); and
(viii) contract necessary consultants whose selection,
qualifications, and terms of employment are satisfactory to
the Bank (SAR para. 4.34, PA Section 2.02).
8.03      With the assurances and conditions indicated above, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$35.7 equivalent to the Government of
Ecuador for a term of 17 years, including a gra¿e period of four years.



-46-
ANNEX 1
Page 1
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-IENCOME HOUSING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS
A. Project Administration
1.        A senior consultant, with broad experience (both technical and
administrative) in the implementation of similar projects elsewhere, will
visit Ecuador four times a year to review implementation of all aspects of
the project. He will, in consultation with project staff, analyze progress
and problems in the physical execution of the project, BEV/JNV relations
with project beneficiaries, financial aspects (accounting and auditing for
the project, requests for IBRD disbursements, compliance with financial
covenants), coordination within BEV/JNV and with related agencies for the
purposes of the project, and (especially) monitoring and evaluation. He
will visit project sites and, as necessary, other agencies related to the
project. He will advise BEV/JNV management on project implementation,
sending copies of his reports to IBRD.
2.        On one visit per year he will be accompanied by a
multi-disciplinary team of about three other people. Together, they will
provide BEV/JNV with a more thorough evaluation of project implementation
and recommend adjustments. The team members for each year will be selected
by BEV/JNV in consultation with the lead consultant and IBRD, taking
current problems into account in deciding on the types of specialized
expertise to recruit. BEV/JNV will call a meeting of key project-related
staff, from Quito and other project cities, to participate with this
inter-disciplinary team in a systematic review of project implementation.
The consultant team will prepare a report to BEV/JNV, a copy of which would
be sent to IBRD.
B. Technical Aspects
1.        A specialist in housing technologies will provide about two
months of assistance in reviewing industrial and self-help housing
technologies. BEV/JNV's Emergency Plan for Guayaquil made use of a number
of new materials and semí-industrial construction techniques, and the
National Low-Income Housing Project will provide BEV/JNV experience with
several self-help approaches to housing. Taking these recent BEV/JNV
experiences into account, the spe!cialist will recommend to BEV/JNV future
directions for the development of' housing technology in Ecuador.
2.        Two experts in self-help and communal labor (mutual-help) methods
of housing construction will assist JNV in familiarizing itself with these
methods.   One will work for two months when JNV first begins to guide
self-help and mutual-help construction, the other for a month and a half
about a year later. The second will give particular attention to JNV's
need to evaluate its initial experience with self-help and mutual-help
construction as a basis for further improvement.



-47-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        A human settlements specialist will be contracted for about a
month and a half, to: (a) advise JNV regarding the detailed planning and
implementation of its experimental programs of urban upgrading (paying
particular attention to community relations and arrangements for cost
recovery), and (b) assist JNV, more generally, in developing a national
human settlements policy that would take into account, inter alia, the
problems of confused land tenure and inadequate services in existing
low-income settlements.
C. Financial Aspects
1.        A senior Ecuadorian financial analyst (contracted for six months)
and an international financial consultant (contracted for two months) will
assist BEV in the preparation of a financial policy statement and in the
establishment of a more complete financial management information system.
The financial management information system should include:
(a)   refinement of existing financial projections, making sure that
underlying assumptions are reviewed by senior management;
(b)   calculation and use of key financial ratios;
(c)   putting the financial information system on computer to
facilitate revisions and consideration of the financial aspects
of various policy options;
(d)   development of a reporting system, by which middle-management
would routinely provide senior management and BEV's board with
summaries of financial information and relevant recommendations
to inform decision-making; and
(e)   routine use by BEV's board, senior management, and relevant
departments within BEV/JNV of the financial management
information system as a basis for decision-making.
2.        Three additional person-months of expert financial advice are
planned to review ways to mobilize more financial resources for low-income
housing generally. This consultant will pay particular attention to a
potentially expanded role for the private sector. He would suggest how BEV
might provide increased support to the savings-and-loan associations and
direct more of their efforts toward low-cost housing. He would also
consider other ways to further involve private developers in the provision
of low-cost housing.
3.        A local consultant in the area of cost accounting will be
contracted for three years. JNV's present system of calculating costs is
based more on post facto estimates than on cost accounting. The consultant
would assist JNV in developing and introducing more accurate systems for
keeping track of actual construction costs.
4.        A local consulting firm (with experience in industrial economics
commensurate with the best international accounting firms) will be
contracted for 90 person-days. They will appraise how BEV should proceed



-48-
ANNEX 1
Page 3
with its building materíals factories (excluding the cement factory, as
explained in para. 6.11), considering BEV divestment to the private sector
as one option.
D. Project Preparation
1.        About US$200,000 of technical assistance would be allocated to
assist in the preparation of future projects (perhaps about 130
person-months of local consultant time). It is possible that BEV would,
toward the end of implementation of this project, seek another IBRD loan,
for its own programs and perhaps for onlending to other institutions in the
sector. Alternatively, these funds could be used for the preparation of
other projects, to be financed either nationally or internationally.



-49-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Table 1: Key Dates for Project Supervision
Actual or Revised
Estimate at Negotiation   Estimate
Dates Noted in Legal Agreements
First submission of afford-
ability results                     November 30, 1982
Proposal for second Quito site
and overall JNV plan                December 31, 1982
Acquisition of all land for the
project                             December 31, 1982
Financial management system and
fínancial policy statement          March 31, 1983
Reports on institutional
development                         June 30, 1982
Signing of Earthmoving Contracts
Ambato                                December 1, 1982
Esmeraldas                            June 1, 1982
Quininde                              June 1, 1982
Quito 1                               September 1, 1982
Quito II                              August 1, 1983
Riobamba                              June 1, 1982
Santo Domingo                         June 1, 1982
Babahoyo                              September 1, 1983
El Empalme                            September 1, 1982
Machala                               September 1, 1982
Quevedo                               December 1, 1982
Other Key Dates (BEV)
Study of building material
factories contracted                December 31, 1982
Installation of new computer          February 28, 1983
Other Key Dates (JNV)
Project operational manual            May 31, 1982
Staff training plan                   May 31, 1982
Report on initial experience
with urban upgrading                July 31, 1983



-50-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
E.JAD1OR 1fM-IE HWSIW PR=ECT
Table 2: Key Indicators for Project Supervisíon
1982      1983      1984       1985      1986
Project Indicators
New Hcusing Canpleted (r ber)                            Initial                       26      1,810     3,162
Actual
Fantlies Served by Upgradíng                             Initial                               1,200     1,200
Actual
Hame Inproveent Loens Dish e                             Initial             79     2,822      3,494       524         81
Actual
Project Personx l                                        Initial             78       104        110        44         33
Actual
Expenditures for Technical Assistance (S/milliorn)       Initial              8.0      29.7       10.5       8.0
Actual
Institutioral IrKdicators
BEV Emplqyees                                            Initial            839       919        919       919       919
Actual
JNV Enployees                                            Initial            394       414        423       456        478
Actual
Arrears                                                  Initial              3         3          3         3          3
Actual
General Inflation                                        Initial             15        15         15        15         15
Actual
Average Interest Rate                                    Initial             15        15         15        15         15
Actual
Work in Progress (S/millions)                            Initial          4,060     4,643      5,659     6,665      7,478
Actual
Debt Service Coverage                                    Initial              1.3       2.0        2.1       2.3        2.8
Actual
Interest Coverage                                        Initial              1.0       1.3        1.4       1.7        2.5
Actual
Contributicn to Investment, E w luding Deposits (%)      Initial              9        22         28        33         44
Actual
Contributicn to Investment, Including Deposits (%)       Initial             33        56         66        72        85
Actual



-51-                                                      ANNEX 2
Page 3
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME EOUSING PROJECT
Table 3: Progreso on Sub-Components
_expenditures as a percentage of current coat estimates)
CURRENT       1982               1983                    1984                     1985              1986
NUMBER       COST
OF LOTS  ESTIMATES  11    IV    I   II    III   IV   1  II    III   IV    1   II    III   IV    I   II
INFRASTRUCTURE
Ambato
Initial             460          27                    12    29      50    71  88  100
Actual
Esmeraldas
Initial              809         70          2    19  45    74      89    97 100
Actual
Quininde
Initial              115          6         11    41  83  100
Actual
Quito I
Initial           2,016        115                 2  11    28      53    78  92    98    100
Actual
Quito II
Initial           1,000         130                                       10  22    36       52    67    80  91    100
Actual
Riobamba
Initial             523          28          5   15  28    52       77    95 100
Actual
Santo Dooingo
Initial           1,211          85          5   23  44    71       88    98 100
Actual
Babahoyo
Inítial             500          91         91                             10  22    36      52    67    80  91    100
Actual
El Empalme
Initial             236          26               12  29    50      71    88 100
Actual
Machala
Initial             252          21               12  29    50      71    88 100
Actual
Quevedo
Initial             719          56                    12   29      50    71  88  100
Actual
TOTAL           7,841        695
BASIC UNITS - TYPE 1
Ambato
Initial             354          48                          12     29    50  71    88    100
Actual
Esmeraldas
Initial              130         16                9  26    51      74    92  98  100
Actual
Quito I
Initial             642          93                                   5   18  40   64        85    96   100
Actual
Quito II
Initial             543          59                                             10   22      36    52    67  80       91    100
Actual
Riobamba
Initial             308          40                5  17    39      62    83  95  100
Actual
Santo Domingo
Initial              202         27                4  15    32       52    72  88    97    100
Actual
Babahoyo
Initial               72         12                                             10    22     36    52    67  80       91   100
Actual
El Empalme
Initial               34          5                    12    29      50    71  88  100
Actual
Machala
Initial               17          2                    12    29     50    71  88  100
Actual
Quevedo
Initial               88         12                          12     29    50  71    88    100
Actual
TOTAL           2,390         341



- 52 -                                                             ASNEX 2
Tabla 3 (Cont'd)                                                                                                            Paga 4
CURRENT       1982             1983                    1984                   1985              1986
NUMBER      COST
OF LOTS  ESTIMATES  III_  I    2   II   III   IV    I   II   III   IV    I   II    III   IV    I   II
BASIC _UhITS - 7E 2
Ambato
Initial            106         16                         12    29   50  71   88   100
Actual
E-aldas
Ilitial            114         16                    6   24    73   91 100
Actual
Quinínde
Initial             26          4              20  50   80   100
Actual
Quito I
Initial          1,374        216                    4   15    31   51  70   84    93   98  100
Actual
Quito II
Iitial            457         84                                          10   22      36   52   67  80    91  100
Actual
Ricbaahaa
InitIal            215         31               5  15   35       58   80  93  100
Actual
Sauto Domingo
Initial            157         23               4  14   31       51   77  87   96   100
Actual
Babahoyo
Initial             74         14                                          10   22    36   52   67  80         91  100
Actual
El Empalan
Icitíal             11          2                   12   29      50   71  88  100
Actual
bachala
Initial              19         3                   12   29      50   71  88  100
Actual
Quav-do
Initial             55          8                         12    29   30  71   88   100
Actual
TOTAL          2,608       417
URBAN UPGRADING
Yachala
Initial          1,200         66              10  22   36    52   67  80   91   100
Actual
Othern
Initial          1,200         73                                10   22  36   52    67   80   91 100
TOTAL          2,400
I0OhE IMPROVEMENT LOAMS
Ambato
Initial                        31                         10    23   40  61   78    91  100
Actual
Enmacraldas
lnitial                        41                   10   22    36   52  67   80    91  100
Actual
Quin.ída
Ilitial                         6              15  36   54    85   100
Actual
Quito I
Initial                       206                    8    18    29   42  58   71    82   92  100
Actual
Quito II
InitiaI                        21                                                10    22   36   52  67        80   91  100
Actual
Riobamba
Initial                        20                   10   22    36   52  67   80    91  100
Actual
Santo Domingo
Initial                        56               8  18   29    42   58  71   82          92  100
Actual
Babahoyo
Inltial                        26                                                 8    18   29   42  58    71   82   92 100
Actual
El Empalmo
Initial                        16                         10    23   40  61   78    91  100
Actual
Machala
Ilitial                        53                   10   22      36   52  67   80    91  100
Actual
Quc--do
Initíal                        46                         12    29   50  71   83   100
Actual
TOTAL                       522



-53-
ANNEX 2
Page 5
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 4: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements        Cumulative
Each Quarter       Disbursements   % Cumulative
Quarter Ending          (US$ million)      (US$ million)    Disbursements
September 30, 1982              0.4                  0.4                1
December 31, 1982               0.8                  1.2               3
March 31, 1983                  0.4                  1.6                4
June 30, 1983                   0.7                  2.3                6
September 30, 1983              0.7                  3.0               8
December 31, 1983               1.4                  4.4              12
March 31, 1984                  1.4                  5.8              16
June 30, 1984                   1.7                  7.5              21
September 30, 1984              2.2                  9.7              27
December 31, 1984               2.8                 12.5              35
March 31, 1985                  2.8                 15.3              43
June 30, 1985                   3.9                 19.2              54
September 30, 1985              3.5                 22.7              64
December 31, 1985               3.1                 25.8              72
March 31, 1986                  2.5                 28.3               79
June 30, 1986                   2.1                 30.4              85
September 30, 1986              2.1                 32.5              91
December 31, 1986               1.4                 33.9              95
March 31, 1987                  0.1                 35.0               98
June 30, 1987                   0.7                 35.7             100



-54-
ANNEX 3
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.        Proyecto Nacional de Vivienda de Bajo Costo:  Propuesta de
BEV/JNV al BIRF. BEV/JNV. As revised, March 1982.
B.        Background Documentation by IBRD Staff and Consultants
B.l.      Staff Working Papers.  January 1982.
B.2.      Rene Mauricio Escobar (Consultant), Report from Appraisal
Mission.
B.3.      Detailed Financial Tables.  April 1982.
C.        General Documents
C.1.      Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1980-1984:  Vivienda y Desarrollo
Urbano. JNV, 1980.
C.2.      Leyes y Reglamentos del BEV y de la JNV y de las Asociaciones
Mutualistas. JNV, 1980.
C.3.      Normas Tecnicas de Urbanizacion y Vivienda. JNV, 1981.
C.4.      Carlos Luzuriaga C., Poverty in Ecuador, Issues of Human
Settlements in Ecuador, and Income Distribution and Poverty in Rural
Ecuador. USAID, 1979 and 1980.



J.N.V. ORGANIZATION CHART
J N.V BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
PRESIDENT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vi- 
TECHNICALTENAAUITNG
|GENERA DIRECTOR
PLANNING                                  SEGAL                                                R
RECrORATE                                        N          DIRECTORATE
INFORMATION        L                                            EXPRNPRIATION  AND
DEPATN  ERDEPARTMENT       r                                               LEGTSLAON
A                                          DEPARTMENT
INVESTIGAT iON      _
DEPARTMENT         _                       .
|ROGRAMMING, CONRLAO                                                                 ADMINISTRATION
RI LVALUATION DEIAL T REN  NL                                                         AND FINANCE
DUE IRECORAT
|SERVICES DEPARTMFNT            EP|MN
|TECHNIICAL
T DIRECTORATE
DESIGN                                               i CONSTRUCTiON                                         STUDIA    ANDOT
DI VISION                                                    D DIVISION                                         DiVISMOION
ARCHITECTURE     U~RBAN          ENGINEERING        RURAL HOUSING         CONSTR UCTION        SUEVISION   ||INVESTIGATION  ||ORGANIZATiON  || PROGRAMS                   j
DEPARTMEINT        DEPARTMENT         DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT            D EPAR TMENT        DEATMENT               DEPARTMENT        PROGRAMMING     ADMINiSTRATION|
|EEINA        REGIONAL                                               RE|OA ElEINL||RGOAL §r X [RGOA 
|  1                  2      ||        3                 4                            5      6                                                                                            r  l
* Corch,          * Los R,os      * Cafa,             * Manabi          * Eolhar        * Loja
* Imbabura        * Guayas        * A-uay                               * Tungurahua    * Zamora Chinohípa
* Picnincha       * El Oro        * Morora Santiago                     * Chimborazo                                                                                                           4
* Cotopax¡        * GalapagoS                                           * Pastaza
* Esmeraldas
* Napo                                                                                                                                                       World 8ank -- 23429



B.E.V. ORGANIZATION CHART
/PROCURE- \
/INSURANCE                      BOARD OF        - - - - _      MENT
FUND   r                    DlECTORS                     COMMITTEEl
BOARD  //                                  .\s                    o
GENERAL
MANAGER
LOAN   L_                 DEPU1 YGENERAL
\COMMITTEE /                   MANAGER
LEGAL                                                 |    CREDIT ANO                ECONOMIC AND OOAN
DIRECT FRATE                                             |NANCE DIRECTORATE          STATISTICALSTUDIES        DIRECTORATE
FENSONNEL  LEGAL  ACCOUNTINO  COLLECTION                                        DATA~~~~~~~IRECORAT
MTRAL                                                                                                                             A A                           LOCLALS i 6  ^    1[
MATERIAL    ERSNSURANCELSECTNGN                                                                           TREASURY        RCE SSN         LEASESLOA
FACTORIES                                                                        ILPR _ETI INGJ                       O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FFICES
World Bank - 23427



ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
J.N.V.                              IB.R.                               B.E V.
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            k
PRESIDENT                                                               PRESIDENT
GENERAL                                                       .         GENERAL
DIRE CTOR                                                               MANAGER
-   ADMINISTRATION                                        CREDIT AND
P LAN N I N G      LEGAL               _              ~  ~  / \ AND FINANCE                                 FINAE
EVALUATION   .       CONTRACTS      INANCIAL                \           
CONTROL                      \        
TECHNICAL                   /\
DIRECTOR                                                 \1
|PROJECT DlRco                                                                                    AL 
3   \   \   I   I                /I                                          ~~~~~~~~      ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~FINANCIAL  DISBURSEMENTS AND
3          \       \                9.ONSTRUCTION                                                        PLANNING                 IBRD REIMBURSEMENTS
¡ \                                                                                                            55
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
O  \ cg  m     cz  n     :1                                                     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LINES OF COORDINATION
O     \                    ~~~~~~~LOCAL PROJECT                                                        LINES OF AUTHORITY
PRJECT DIRECTO~DIREC
CONSULTANTS                                                                                                                    E        ANO
TO  SUPERVISE           /EIMBURSEMENTS
WOR KS           /                                                                            -  LNCONTRACTOES  ON
f  *    *       f      »   AND WORKS
Worid Bank - 23428



ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
Flow of Funds
L  B.E.V./J.N.V.                                                                                                                                     N.V             . . . 
N.gb,-                                                                                   c.                                                      .-t
\   t   .  \/  _  \}  < ReirrrburnE I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.t.  ..~                                                                                                                       R . 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tmf* 0 ly l                                                                                                           W, 11
:ZiE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
(    HoCC¡ns    J             l               (  N- ¡hi orhood 1                                    i   "-wv      m i                         il    Coil                                        fo, Ope. Ioo a 
Mt,ncips
Gnw.rn;onflt                                                                                                                                                                                                                        F~
HoC..hCId,               Ho~~~~~~~~~oM,oId,  ~           ..
S.Ppl-  ,h., M..iip.1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Ga..IMnl.aiRaan.
<aV >  j|B*ItrmXWTg | |  rK . V  0    Xn+ rs lo Ma¡oonaa bs of In fl I I opraouor ¡1nd ilk -
¡r  Mun¡c¡P-$  |   g    | |   Municip-l  | |   LS   9   ~to Sopann Oí,. Monio                         rnipl.Io                         llll                               Gri~uirr1  iinit              |t> Fo   f   r    uZ
| ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Rnn. Woaenlen                                                                                                                                                                      B,  - 23223mn    ]_ll O   roosn   lnr    ||||||icldgGwninVTinhr 
f t  f t                                                              |                1ll                          l           i   E n rjr|              =   >    iov  o   n t F u u  « g r' a



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT                                      Page  5
PROGRESSIVE DEVELOPMENT HOUSING
Typical Layouts
ELEVATION
|- ~        ~~~~~                   qbm Lam  
II~~~~~ 1               
ITCHEN
4           ~~~~KITCHEN   
|                                     |       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DINING ROOM
BEDROOM                   BEDROOM
¡ ES
II                                                    ! 
_~~_ _X _--___--.-
BASIC UNIT TYPE 1BASIC UNIT TYPE 2                                                                     Wo,id Bank - 231B4
PLAN



-60-
Poorly serviced, informal settiements and crowded rental housing have been
the only options available to lov'-income urban families.



-61-        J
Traditional BEV/JNV programs were generally too expensive for the urban
poor, even at subsidized rates of interest.



-62-
Under the present administration, BEV/JNV has been building scimewhat lower-
cost housing, most of it in Guayaquil.



IBRD 16369
80~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~MARCH  1982
gankt..                       y     f  
Lorenzo
\~~~~~~~~
1C¡' )  : >/ .............. ,«NATIONAL  LOW-RNCOME
Bahía de Caraque. 
k                                     BabíodeCoraquShoe  / g    t < EJ ................Cities  Included   in  the  Project
Manto                                                        utacun                                                                                  a        Cities included ¡n the prolect
v00   5000od
St  E)n              Guayaquil\4MSgo)f;gg ! »«- J   ÓN 00-40
|       <                A    Sat ! ,*   ^¿Dv  0                                     <             9                              _,_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  nte-rnational boundaries|
Th,o map, has been prepared bv fhe               ro                      X        7L                  n          J     
World Bork 'o oroff opcj Biooly foPo¡t¡
C~~~~~~~aa
Che con veniencreofCherreáAdero ofAr                                                                                     >        a    P
Che reponCo ohch t   ir essattechod.                                                              0AS                  s          ~x                KLMTK                 25      50       75      100     125      150     175      200
donrot ,mply. onC the part of the  ;       j 4 tS i; ¡1 1' 4c      "i 0                                                  2S ¡cr 10 125
World Bank end ,bto aff,lieto. rle BrABAi iT                                                               .,                                                                                          n  _bo
iodgmor,t 00 Che legal OCeCoS of ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~    ~  J 
2fl te; ,itr40o00rr erdrsemoo
oracceptorce of soch houodarwo1 Nuev






r                                                                                                     _                                    ECOADC R                       StF'FtM4ER 1981|~~~~~~EC ADO
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT 
RIOBAMBÇA|
SITE DLEVELCOPMENT PLAN|
-   Prolect areca boundary
9                                  ,,                                                        t1  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Basíc unit type I
S,X   W                       .?           <                                               ! i  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bus ic unit type 2
,,    %   - <,                :                 ><                                            1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Future expa,lisior,
.2  <   - -<           \, .            4    \      -t.,N.;,                                 L _   < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Green cirece / Coinmunity facilities
X 1, 9. , > < .$, ' L .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Parking crea
---Xu  -;>                    i      ~~~~~~~~~~~   . ; = ~~~~~Roads
/v;)  a.     ; a, .                 \+>s                    ,                    ,,    =  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Exisflng r-ocd
\   z    ",2  .   A g   /z     ,:-     X,-s            '! T        ' o.                4>            ,  .   ,                 0       20     40      60      80    'J()~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    2  4  611 8  )
X   X   @ ,          0   "   X                        .             t, .                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M ET ER S
\?,  \  ,              S/                 ,"X  cc"", fln, /                              , ' 0'                                                                                 RIOBAMB:
f i- i ; ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >~~~~~~~ f.
E~*\ C U A D (D R   
L ~ ~ ~~~~b  d-AC-j                                                                                                     ,       ..             -,? ,",_
Po E                       6           i,/A2                                                                                    E;       \)< /'    X\<                                    - RIOBL,






/  /                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLPT-M9LR 9ffl
--                                      ~~~~~~~~~E C  UJ A  D  O R
i                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NAIIONAL LOW-iNCOME HOUSING PROJECT
-! *  0  X:                                                                                                                      SANTO DOMINGO DE LOS COLORADOS
r '1 Si _* a ' fW X 'L1 0 01'Q t B ......... jn Fp--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G..                                                                                      t
| f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SANT  DMNG   DE 1t,...nP-pLOS  ".COLRAO
9I]. ¡:-/'    a,.t'
=, == 'a--la,  _
- |1                                                            <                                   0    j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RCCCFe
*~ ~~1l       _                                                                                                                                                    vnn    ro\,m  1f'l  D Ea:stea  Op  OC



