Document of            F i,PY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3272-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
April 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performane of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Ecuador implemented a system of multiple exchange rates
on March 3, 1982. The exchange rate for the petroleum sector
remains at US$1 = S/. 25, that for non-oil exports is US$1 = SI.
30. The exchange rates for non-oil imports are US$1 = SI. 28 for
essential imports (e.g., food and raw materials) and US$1 = SI. 30
for all other imports. There is also a free market rate that has
been fluctuating around US$1 = S/. 35.
Currency Unit: Sucre (SI.)
Calendar 1981           April 1, 1982
(Official Market)      (Most Non-Oil Trade)
US$1            = S/. 25                    S/. 30
SI. 1           = US$0.04                  US$0.03
S/. 1,000       = US$40.00                  US$33.33
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BEV          - Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda
(Ecuadorian Housing Bank)
IDB          - Inter-American Development Bank
JNV           - Junta Nacional de Vivienda
(National Housing Board)
USAID         - United States Agency for International Development



ECUADOR               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NATIONAL LOW - INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Ecuador
Beneficiary:            Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda (BEV)
Amount:                 US$35.7 million equivalent -- this amount includes
about US$528,000 to cover the capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:                  Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace,
at 11.6 percent interest per annum with a front-end
fee of 1.5 percent.
Relending Terms:        The Government would onlend the loan's proceeds to
BEV, in sucres, on the same terms as the Bank's loan
and it would absorb the foreign exchange risk on the
loan.
Project Description:   The project's three objectives are: (i) to support the
Government's policy of providing affordable housing to
low-income families; (ii) to strengthen BEV and the
junta National de Vivienda (JNV) which are the two
major institutions in the housing sector; and (iii) to
support the expansion of low-cost housing in secondary
cities. About 50 percent of project investments would.
directly benefit families with incomes below the
absolute poverty level and most of the estimated
81,000 beneficiaries are individuals who have
previously not owned housing. The project includes
four major components: new housing, urban upgrading,
community facilities and home improvement loans. The
project also includes funds for project management and
some technical assistance for the implementing
institutions.
Project Risks:          Because of extensive in-house preparation by BEV/JNV
and because of the institutional and technical
simplicity of the project, the risk of difficulties
during implementation should be kept to a minimum.
However, since this type of project is relatively new
to Ecuador, there is a risk that management problems
might occur due to inexperience. Technical assistance
during execution should reduce this risk. There are
also risks that repayment problems might develop among
the low-income beneficiaries thus prejudicing BEV's
financial soundness. These risks should be offset by
the fact that BEV has a good record of repayments, is
well-equipped to keep arrears low and earns a
sufficient margin on the loan.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofhcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wo3rld Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:  (These cost figures do not include local duties and taxes
from which BEV is exempt.)
Local           Foreign          Total
--------------US$ Millions----------
A.  New Housing                          29.4              9.0             38.4
B.  Urban Upgrading                       2.1             0.8               2.9
C.  Community Facilities                  2.8             1.5               4.3
D.  Home Improvement Loans                7.9             5.8              13.7
E.  Project Management                    4.3             0.8               5.1
F.  Technical Assistance                  0.6             0.9               1.5
Base Costs                               47.1            18.8              65.9
G.  Physical Contingencies                4.3             1.7               6.0
H.  Price Contingencies                  24.2             4.3              28.5
Total Project Costs                75.6            24.8            100.4
I.  Front-end Fee on Bank Loan             -              0.5               0.5
Total Financing Required          75.6             25.3            100.9
Financing Plan:
Local           Foreign          Total
--------------…US$ Millions----------
Bank                                 10.4            25.3              35.7
BEV                                  49.4                             49.4
Government                           15.8             -                15.8
Total                             75.6             25.3            100.9
Estimated Disbursements:
1983    1984   1985   1986   1987
-------US$ Millions by Bank FY----
Annual                         2.3       5.2   11.7   11.2       5.3
Cumulative                     2.3       7.5   19.2   30.4    35.7
Rate of Return:             18 percent for all components which have quan-
tifiable benefits. These represent 90 percent
of project costs.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 3675b-EC of April 13, 1982 entitled Ecuador -
National Low-Income Housing Project



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR A
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$35.7 million to help
finance a national low-income housing project. The loan includes a
capitalized front-end fee of 1.5 percent and would be repayable over 17
years, including four years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per
annum. The proceeds of the loan would be relent to the Banco Ecuatoriano de
la Vivienda (BEV) in Sucres on the same terms as the proposed loan and the
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 3723-EC
entitled "Ecuador: Economic Development Issues" was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 17, 1981. Annex I provides the main social
and economic indicators.
3.        Ecuador entered the seventies as one of the least developed Latin
American countries. The discovery and subsequent exploitation of petroleum
in the Amazon region, however, initiated a major boom in 1972. From 1972 to
1980, real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 7.6 percent and per capita
GNP rose from US$320 to US$1,220, a level which places Ecuador amongst the
Bank's middle-income borrowers. Even though the living conditions of many of
its inhabitants have improved, owing to the low levels from which the country
started at the beginning of the oil boom, Ecuador's social indicators still
lag behind those of other countries with similar levels of per capita income.
4.        Since 1978 the rate of economic growth has been slowing down,
averaging about 4.5 percent in 1979-1981. Segging private investment because
of political uncertainties (elections in 1979, a border conflict with Peru
and the death of the President, in an airplane crash, in 1981), stagnating
petroleum output and, lately, declining international prices of Ecuador's
main exports account for the slowdown of economic growth.
Social Developments
5.        Income distribution in Ecuador is skewed, as in many less developed
countries. Thus, while a sizeable middle class has emerged, about 40 percent
of the urban and 65 percent of the rural population live in absolute
poverty. Population growth is estimated at 3.4 percent per year and the
Government does not yet have an active family planning program. This rate of
population growth will continue to strain the ability of the Government to
alleviate poverty through the provision of social services.



6.        Two of the reasons for Ecuador's skewed income distribution are
highly concentrated ownership of productive resources and unequal access to
public services -- especially education, health services, and agricultural
extension. For example, sixty percent of the country's farmers derive their
livelihood from only 11 percent of the arable land. Their farms are small --
less than 5 hectares -- and tend to be of the poorest quality. Low levels of
education, primitive cultivation techniques, scarce use of technical inputs,
and limited access to commercial marketing contribute to low farm
productivity and incomes. Farms over 10 hectares produce from 1.3 to 2 times
more per hectare than smaller farms, and the income of many small farmers
barely exceeds subsistence levels.
7.        Growth has benefited mainly the urban middle and rural upper
classes. Public expenditures have been concentrated in urban centers.
During the seventies, only about a quarter of total public investment was
channeled into rural areas, where 56 percent of the total population and most
of the country's poorest live. Primary school coverage has been expanding
significantly, but the benefits of education remain unequally distributed.
Illiteracy in urban areas is around 6 percent versus nearly 40 percent in
rural areas. Indians, who constitute about one-third of the population, live
primarily in the rural areas, especially in the mountains. While Indians
speak their own languages and have their own cultural patterns and value
systems, the Spanish language and Western culture predominate in the public
schools as well as in local administration and businesses.
8.        In order to improve living conditions for the poor, the Government
is pursuing a development policy with a strong social component. In rural
areas a strategy of seeking rapid agricultural growth is now complemented by
an emphasis on integrated rural development. Real public outlays for agri-
culture increased by over 20 percent in 1980 and public services for the
rural sector were drawn together under a rural development secretariat.
Agricultural price controls are also under revision; faragate prices of
several items (sugar, wheat, milk) have already been raised. These and
related measures are intended to provide better production incentives and the
basis for more effective programs in the rural sector in the years ahead.
Balance of Payments and Fiscal Policies
9.        Imports increased at an average rate of 10.2 percent in real
terms during 1972-80.  The main forces behind this increase were:  (i) the
high investment rates achieved during the earlier part of the period and the
related demand for imported capital goods, mainly for the industrial and
transport sectors; (ii) the steep demand for inputs by the industrial sector;
(iii) Government imports; (iv) the growing demand for food; and (v) the
relative low price of imported goods as a result of an exchange rate that
appreciated around 45 percent in real terms between 1970 and 1981. Real
exports of goods, on the other hand, increased annually by only 2.0 percent
during the same period. Export earnings increased mainly because world
prices for Ecuador's exports, especially oil, went up. In order to reverse
these unfavorable trends, the Government devalued the sucre by about 20
percent for all non-oil exports and imports on March 3, 1982, thus partially
offsetting the real appreciation of the sucre. This action is an important
first step in stimulating non-oil exports (thus diversifying the economy),
and in reducing the incentives for activities which are overly dependent on
imports.



- 3 -
10.       Income gains resulting from the oil boom, expansionary fiscal
policies, and a slow growth of the domestic supply of food resulted in
inflationary pressures in the 1970s. Price controls and heavy imports of
food staples, however, helped to curb these pressures: the consumer price
index rose at an annual rate of about 13 percent during the decade. Since
the present Government took office in 1979, however, it raised the prices of
petroleum products and of some agricultural goods (sugar, wheat, milk), and
embarked on a program of decontrolling prices. In the long term, these
actions should result in higher domestic production of agricultural goods and
lower growth of domestic consumption of petroleum products. In the short
run, however, they have fed inflationary pressures.  In 1980, a doubling of
the minimum wage (decreed by Congress)--well above the increases in
productivity and consumer prices--also added to inflationary pressures. As a
result, consumer prices rose at an annual rate of 15 percent during 1981.
11.       Fiscal policies have been expansionary.  After the public sector
deficit reached 8.5 percent of GDP in 1977, the Government imposed budgetary
restraints on public investment. These restraints, together with a doubling
of world petroleum prices, helped to bring the deficit down to 2.0 percent of
GDP in 1979. In 1980, however, the newly installed Congress approved a
budget higher than that proposed by the Administration. The 1980 budget
increased central Government expenditures by over 30 percent in real terms,
raising the public sector deficit to an estimated 4.3 percent of GDP. These
expansionary policies were continued in 1981; the public sector deficit for
that year is estimated to have been about equivalent to 5 percent of GDP.
12.       Public external debt outstanding nearly tripled between 1977 and
1981, in large measure because the public sector deficits have been financed
through external borrowing. Moreover, as most of the newly contracted debt
was provided by commercial sources, terms, maturity, and grace periods have
hardened. Consequently, Ecuador's public debt-service ratio increased from
5.8 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1975 to an
estimated 18 percent in 1981.
Sectoral Developments
13.       The agricultural sector of Ecuador has had a rate of growth aver-
aging only 2.2 percent p.a. since 1972. Nevertheless, the sector accounted
for 13 percent of GDP in 1980 and employed about one-half of the total labor
force.  Specific constraints to sector growth include price controls,
subsidies to competing food imports, inadequate infrastructure (mostly
roads), insufficient credit, world market price fluctuations for main export
crops, and limited farm-level extension services. Domestic food production
grew some 17 percent between 1972 and 1980, while the population increased
some 30 percent. As a result, food imports rose sharply, although Ecuador
remains a net food exporter. The Government, nevertheless, has begun to
improve production incentives (para. 8).
14.       The manufacturing sector of Ecuador (excluding petroleum refining)
expanded by 10 percent per year in real terms between 1972 and 1980 and at
present accounts for about 16 percent of GDP. Linkages between Ecuadorian
industry and other sectors of the economy are weak. Moreover, the system of
investment incentives has biased relative prices against labor and hence has
tilted investment toward more capital-intensive activities. In an effort to
address these problems, the Government raised interest rates (thus keeping
them at positive levels) and devalued the sucre in early 1982 (para. 18). It



is now analyzing measures to modify tariffs and trade policies in order to
strengthen sectors with more favorable export prospects and to reduce the
incentives for establishing inefficient industries.
15.       Ecuador became a net exporter of petroleum in 1972.  By 1980 oil
accounted for 54 percent of export earnings, 48 percent of Government
revenues, and 13 percent of Ecuador's GDP. Nevertheless, annual production
in 1980 was only 1 million barrels higher than the 76 million barrels
produced in 1973. Production has stagnated because exploration efforts
practically ceased between 1973 and 1979. The present Government has begun
to give priority to increased exploration and secondary recovery: in an
effort to renew foreign interest in Ecuador it has sent a new hydrocarbons
law to Congress and prepared new draft contracts. It has also allocated
about US$80 million per year to CEPE, the national oil company, for
exploration and secondary recovery. The Government expects the secondary
recovery program to increase the country's production by 16 percent in 1984.
16.       Petroleum exports declined during the latter part of seventies as
domestic consumption rose rapidly, stimulated by low domestic prices and high
GDP rates of growth. To curb the growth of domestic demand, the Government
tripled domestic gasoline prices and doubled the prices of other petroleum
products in February 1981. Further price adjustments are expected, although
on a more gradual basis. These and other recent conservation measures --
doubling import taxes on energy-inefficient vehicles, for example -- should
help to reduce the growth of domestic demand of petroleum products. Together
with an ongoing major switch from thermal to hydropower generation, these
measures will free more oil for export and reduce the reliance on thermal
power, wqhich currently accounts for about three-fourths of total electricity
generation, to about one-quarter by 1985. The domestic price hikes have
increased Government revenues by about US$240 million per year. These
increases are being used, in part, for oil exploration and improvements of
social services.
Outlook
17.       During most of the past decade, the Government of Ecuador directed
the proceeds of petroleum exports to investment projects which generally
corresponded to the needs of the country. It also fostered a climate
conducive to private investment which, in turn, stimulated the process of
industrialization. The Government's use of incentives, however, proved
largely ineffective for developing the agricultural sector and generating
employment. Finally, serious distortions occurred in the past owing to the
very low domestic prices for petroleum derivatives.
18.       The present Administration, which inherited a host of economic
problems, is committed to pursuing economic development by fostering a
climate favorable to private investment and improving the living conditions
of the lower income segments of the population. To this end, it has taken a
number of important and politically difficult corrective measures: the most
important of these were the substantial increases in the prices of petroleum
products (para. 16). This Government has also taken steps to bring other
prices more in line with market conditions. In mid-1980 it raised the price
of several agricultural products; in 1981 and again in 1982 it increased
interest rates, it has lowered export duties on raw cocoa and coffee to
encourage their production and, in March 1982, it devalued the sucre for
non-oil trade. These are important steps in the right direction and should
encourage exports, agricultural production, and domestic savings.



- 5 -
19.       Ecuador has considerable natural and human resource potential.  To
develop this potential fully and efficiently, continued adjustments in the
country's economic policies are needed. The Government initially aimed at a
6.5 percent annual GDP growth rate for the 1980-1984 period. In light of
1980-81 growth rates, and the recent drop in the international price of
petroleum, this goal seems overambitious. If the Government takes measures
aimed at further petroleum conservation, expansion of production through
secondary recovery and oil field rehabilitation, and vigorous promotion of
exports other than petroleum, growth in the first half of the 1980s might
average about 5 percent annually. Attainment of this growth rate, however,
will entail considerable amounts of external borrowing. In order to reduce
the need for borrowing after the mid-1980s and to lay a basis for resumed
accelerated growth of GDP, oil exploration must be intensified in the very
near future. If these efforts are made, Ecuador's creditworthiness will be
enhanced during the second half of this decade. Meanwhile, in light of its
relatively manageable external debt -- Ecuador's debt service ratio is
projected to be about 30 percent in 1984 -- and given the policy measures
already taken by the Government, Ecuador remains creditworthy for Bank
lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
20.       Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a first highway project. The Bank and IDA have extended 29 loans
and six credits to Ecuador totalling US$636.1 million net of cancellations.
As of March 31, 1982, US$287.8 million of this amount had been disbursed.
The IFC has made eight loans in Ecuador. Two were for a large textile
company and one each in a sugar mill, a cement company, a mining company, and
a pulp and paper firm, a palm oil plant and a leasing company. The IFC has
also purchased capital shares in COFIEC, a development finance company. As
of March 31, 1982, these operations amounted to US$48.1 million in
commitments, of which IFC held US$41.2 million.
21.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC operations as of March 31, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been
hampered by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity. This, in turn,
reflects the insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and
*          technical resources -- a constraint that is still a serious obstacle to
Ecuador's economic and social development. In recent years, the Government
and Bank staff have worked together to step up disbursement of Bank loans.
These efforts are paying off. Disbursements rose from US$16 million in FY78
to an annual average of about US$34 million in FY79-80. In FY81,
disbursements increased by nearly 35 percent to a record level of US$45.7
million and disbursements during the first three-quarters of FY82 are running
well ahead of last year's pace. Ecuador's disbursement rate in recent years
has been roughly in line with the average for Latin American countries.
22.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were -- and still are -- substantial
bottlenecks to be overcome. To date, approximately 28 percent of Bank Group
lending has been for transport. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended
for transport were to improve the country's road network and two to help
finance the expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Lending for power accounts
for 19 percent of total Bank lending to Ecuador. The first three power



operations aimed at improving generation and distribution facilities in
Quito; the FY81 power transmission loan would help expand the national power
transmission grid. The first livestock development loan, approved in FY67,
marked the beginning of a diversification in the Bank Group's lending program
away from infrastructure. Since then, the Bank Group has made nine other
loans and credits for agriculture and fisheries, five DFC loans and one loan
for small-scale enterprise credit to support industrial development, a credit
and a loan for education, one loan each for water supply and urban
development and two technical assistance loans. Bank Group support for
technical assistance activities and involvement in the directly productive
and social sectors now accounts for about 53 percent of total Bank Group
lendingto Ecuador.
23.       Turning to the future, Bank operations will continue to assist in
(i) the creation of a physical and social infrastructure base capable of
fostering development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the strengthening of agencies to implement projects
effectively; and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and
rural poor. Bank lending will emphasize, wherever possible, the design and
adoption of adequate sector policies, as well as the generation of exports
and employment. In addition to the proposed low-income housing project, the
Bank is preparing a vocational training project, a power project and a second
small scale enterprise credit project. The vocational training and small-
scale enterprise credit operations would improve employment prospects
for the population while the power project would contribute to savings in
fuel and to a greater volume of petroleum available for export. In addition
to Bank lending, the IFC is analyzing several possible operations,
principally in agri-business.
24.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the U.S. Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral
sources. IDB has been the single largest lender to Ecuador. Approved loans
from IDB to the country as of December 31, 1981 totalled almost US$818
million equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the power,
agriculture, health/sanitation and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to
the country have come from the Fund for Special Operations and normally carry
2 percent interest, a 10-year grace period and repayment terms of up to 40
years. It is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major development lender
in the immediate future with power, agriculture and socially-oriented
projects continuing to account for a large share of its lending program.
USAID, which had lent Ecuador US$103.6 million equivalent through 1972, made
no new commitments to the country between 1973 and 1979. In 1980, however,
USAID resumed its operations in the country, providing about US$36 million in
new loans and grants since then. Its program concentrates on urban and rural
development.
25.       As of December 31, 1981, Ecuador's outstanding public external debt
committed, including undisbursed, amounted to about US$4.3 billion. Bank
Group lending constituted about 12 percent of this amount and accounted for
about 5 percent of the public and publicly-guaranteed 1981 external debt
service. IDB lending was equivalent to about 15 percent of Ecuador's debt
and US bilateral assistance accounted for another 3 percent. Through 1985,
the Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding public foreign debt is expected to
remain below 15 percent and the Bank's share of debt service is projected to
remain between 8 and 9 percent.



PART III - THE URBAN HOUSING SECTOR
Background
26.       In Ecuador, as in many other countries, public authorities have had
difficulty coping with the rapidly growing demand for shelter and basic
services in urban areas, especially among the poor. Ecuador's urban
population of about 3.8 million -- 44 percent of the country's total
population -- has more than tripled over the last 30 years. The current
trend is expected to continue, resulting in over 9 million people -- 58
percent of the total population -- living in Ecuador's urban areas by the
turn of the century. The country's annual population growth rate of 3.4
percent ranks among the highest in Latin America, and rural out-migration has
brought the urban population growth rate to 4.5 percent. Guayaquil (1.2
million) and Quito (0.8 million), Ecuador's two largest cities, together
comprise 53 percent of the total urban population; 16 secondary cities
together account for another 30 percent.
27.       An estimated 37 percent of urban families have incomes below the
absolute poverty level of US$223 (S/6,700) per month and are unable to
provide themselves with a calorie-adequate diet, let alone adequate housing.
In secondary cities, the proportion of urban families with incomes below the
absolute poverty level rises to an estimated 47 percent. These families live
in harsh conditions -- generally without access to public infrastructure such
as piped water or sewerage -- so that health problems, arising from poor
sanitation, are severe. Roughly half the urban areas in the coastal region
lack basic urban serices. Typically, in these cities the only way the poor
can get housing is to "invade" swampy or otherwise unsuitable land, hastily
erect cane houses and later put pressure on public officials for services
and, finally, legal tenure. Because of the harsher climate in the Sierra,
the poor there cannot provide themselves with housing in this way. Instead,
they tend to rent older, run-down housing in the city center or on the
hillsides which surround many urban areas. While a higher proportion of
households in the Sierra have access to basic urban services, costs are such
that crowding is severe -- ten people to a room is not uncommon.
Previous Responses to the Problem
28.       During the past twenty years, Ecuador has made substantial efforts
to meet the growing requirements for urban housing. During the 1974-1977
period, the private and public sectors constructed about 100,000 units as
part of a national program. In spite of this, the housing deficit was
estimated at 485,000 units in 1977 and it has grown since that time.
Furthermore, the construction that took place was concentrated in two cities
-- only 13 percent of the units were built outside Quito and Guayaquil -- and
most of the units were only affordable to middle income families. For
instance, the average house financed by BEV (the Ecuadorian Housing Bank) in
1977 cost the equivalent of about US$12,500, twice as much as the family at
the urban poverty threshold could afford, even at the subsidized interest
rates prevailing at that time. The housing provided by other housing
agencies, both public and private, was even more expensive.



-8-
Recent Policy Changes
29.       The inauguration of a democratic Government in mid-1979 -- the
first in a decade -- marked the introduction of national policies on urban
development and housing which were oriented toward helping low-income
people. Thus, the housing chapter of the 1980-1984 national development plan
advocated a shift towards self-help housing schemes -- such as sites and
services and basic units which can be constructed progressively -- and
towards more investment in secondary cities. It also called for increased
construction of cheaper homes. As a result, the Government initiated several
programs to meet the shelter needs of the poor. The largest of these is a
project in Guayaquil in which 8,000 low-cost houses are being constructed in
a little over two years. However, the overall goals of the plan -- which
called for construction of nearly 150,000 houses in five years by BEV alone
-- were too ambitious.
30.       Significant constraints limiting the construction of low-income
housing in the past have been: (i) urban development regulations which have
incorporated excessive minimum standards that have kept construction costs
high; (ii) scarcity of finance; and (iii) weakness of the secondary city
municipalities. Urban development regulations were relaxed substantially
during preparation of the proposed project following a national seminar on
urban development norms which the Government held in February 1981. As a
result of this seminar, lower but still safe standards -- which permit
affordable housing for low-income families -- are now being accepted by
municipal authorities. With regard to the sector's financial constraints,
technical assistance is included in the proposed project for further study of
how more resources could be mobilized for low cost housing -- especially by
the private sector savings and loan institutions (para. 41). Finally, a
study by ;anK Dtarr or Lie prooieas of seconUary city mur.icipalities -- and
how to strengthen them -- is being finalized.
The Institutional Framework
31.       The National Housing Board (JNV) was created in 1973 and is charged
by the Government with overall responsibility for formulating housing sector
policy, especially for low-income housing. JNV is also the major housing
construction agency and is responsible for coordinating public and private
entities operating in the sector, for planning urban development and for
promoting private investment in the sector -- about 80 percent of the funds
for housing are provided through the private and informal sector.   BEV
serves as the major financing agency for public housing efforts, is the
largest housing finance institution in Ecuador and is responsible for housing
credit policy. Although legally distinct, BEV and JNV function together as
virtually one organization with the same president, a cabinet-level officer
with overall responsibility for housing in Ecuador.   Both institutions grew
rapidly in the 1970's and are sufficiently competent to carry out the
project.   However, they have provided little financing for home improvement
or self-help housing, and are only now beginning to respond to the demand for
low-cost urban housing on any significant scale. BEV's previous reliance on
fully-serviced cement block units has, until recently, kept shelter costs
prohibitively high for low-income families.



- 9 -
32.       Management of both BEV and JNV during the 1970's was
growth-oriented. Using substantial annual transfers from the Government's
petroleum revenues and rapidly expanding savings deposits, BEV expanded
lending and built up a nationwide network of offices. JNV was run much like
an aggressive construction company, with constant efforts to build more
houses. The current management still wishes to expand BEV/JNV's role in the
sector but is more concerned that increased emphasis be given to low-income
programs. While municipalities have considerable responsibility for planning
at the local level, they are generally inefficient and limited in their
technical and revenue-collecting capabilities. To compensate for this, the
central Government has become heavily involved in the decisions of city
administrations and also provides approximately 30 percent of the
municipalities' funds.
33.       About 1,200 people work in BEV/JNV (400 in JNV and 800 in BEV).
These figures are appropriate and the quality of this staff is generally
high. BEV, as an autonomous bank, is not bound by civil service salary
restrictions and can pay fully competitive salaries. JNV, as part of the
civil service system, has relatively low nominal salaries, but has been able
to use a system of bonuses to attract good staff. The organization of both
agencies is sound, especially now that recent changes, which should further
improve their operations, have been made in their structures.
34.         The main weaknesses in the two institutions are:  (i) inadequate
planning -- BEV has only used the annual budget for financial planning and
JNV has only done project specific planning; (ii) lack of coordination -- top
management in both institutions has tended to make decisions without
consulting or informing middle managers; and (iii) inadequate carrying out of
their policy-making role -- this is especially true of JNV, which has not
fulfilled its role in setting national housing policy.
35.       BEV/JNV's management is aware of these problems and is implementing
measures for dealing with them. These actions would be reinforced during the
execution of the proposed project. Firstly, the two institutions will now
prepare and exchange views with the Bank on medium-term investment and
financial plans (paras. 44 and 57). With respect to coordination, top
management has already introduced certain measures, such as weekly staff
meetings, to improve coordination and communication within BEV/JNV. This
effort would be extended, during execution of the project through (i)
X          preparation of the proposal for the second Quito site (para. 44), which would
be an exercise in integrated project planning; and (ii) implementation of the
project recommended in this report by BEV/JNV as a whole, rather than by an
isolated project unit. Finally, to overcome JNV's weakness in policy
formation, a grant program of technical assistance will be provided by the
Federal Republic of Germany in conjunction with the proposed project.  In
order to review the effectiveness of these measures, by June 30, 1983, both
BEV and JNV would provide to the Bank, for comment, a report on their
institutional development. This report would cover organizational changes,
procedures for project preparation and appraisal and the development of
systems for planning and coordination (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 2.13 of the draft Project Agreement).
Bank Group Operations in the Urban Sector
36.       To date, the only Bank-financed activity in Ecuador's urban housing
sector has been the ongoing Guayaquil Urban Development project (Loan 1776-EC
of May 9, 1980). This project aims at initiating programs of employment



- 10 -
generation and residential development for the low-income population of
Guayaquil. It includes three related components: support to small
enterprises through a commercial bank credit line and technical assistance;
upgrading of, and the provision of services for, low-income areas, managed by
the Municipality of Guayaquil; and housing loans plus a small low-cost
housing site managed by BEV/JNV. The project is complex and experienced a
slow start-up while necessary supplementary agreements were formalized
between the Government and individual executing agencies. Furthermore, land
titling issues in some project sites have been a source of delay. Finally,
Government financing for the project took the form of loans to BEV and the
municipality via a public development bank, a funding process which has taken
over a year to be set up. On the other hand, BEV/JNV have moved forward
satisfactorily on the sites and services component for which they are
responsible and disbursements on this US$14 million component are expected to
reach US$3 million by mid-1982.  Progress in the preparation of the proposed
low-income housing project has also been satisfactory. The fact that the
design of the project proposed in this report is simpler than the Guayaquil
project should greatly facilitate its start-up and execution.
37.       Other Bank-financed operations in the urban areas have included a
water supply loan (1030-EC of FY74) to the Guayaquil Water Company and a
subloan to Guayaquil through the Second Technical Assistance Project (Loan
S-006 of FY78) for improved urban planning. The water supply project was
completed earlier this year and the study on urban planing is expected to get
underway shortly.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.      The present Government has reoriented urban development and housing
policies towards providing increased benefits for lower-income people.
BEV/JNV has responded to this change. In October 1979, during negotiations
of the Guayaquil Urban Development Project, the possibility of Bank
investment in BEV's national program was raised.
39.      The proposed project was prepared by BEV/JNV, starting in March
1980, and was appraised in July 1981. The appraisal mission's report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - National Low-Income Housing Project" (No.
3675b-EC, dated April 13, 1982) is being distributed separately. Annex III
contains a supplementary data sheet.  Negotiations were held in Washington
from March 8 to March 13, 1982 and the Ecuadorian delegation was headed by
Mr. Ricardo Davalos, the President of both BEV and JNV.
Project Objectives and Description
40.      The project is designed to:  (i) support the Government's policy of
providing affordable housing to low-income families; (ii) strengthen BEV and
JNV, the major institutions in the housing sector; and (iii) support the
expansion of low-income housing programs in Ecuador's secondary cities.
41.       Specifically, the project would consist of:
(a) New Housing: Construction of 8,200 serviced lots and basic
housing units which would be sold to low income families in
Quito and nine secondary cities;



- 11 -
(b) Urban Upgrading: Provision of legal land tenure and basic
infrastructure (such as water supply, sewerage, street
drainage, electricity and footpaths) for about 2,400 families
in existing low-income urban settlements;
(c) Community Facilities: Provision of community centers, schools,
day-care centers and health centers in the areas benefiting
from the new housing and urban upgrading components of the
project;
(d) Home Improvement Loans: Provision of about 7,000 loans for
home repair to families in low-income neighborhoods;
(e) Project Management: Support for project administration costs
including financing for vehicles, equipment, and the salaries
of staff who would be working full-time on the project; and
(f) Technical Assistance: The main features of which would be:
(i) consultants' services to assist BEV/JNV in project
preparation and implementation, reviewing low-cost housing
construction procedures and financial management and
analysis;
(ii) training for BEV/JNV staff; and
(iii) the acquisition and installation of new computer equipment
for BEV.
42.      The project would be carried out at two locations in Quito -- the
capital of Ecuador -- and in the nine secondary cities of Ambato, Esmeraldas,
Quininde, Riobamba, Santo Domingo, Babahoyo, El Empalme, Machala and
Quevedo. Guayaquil, Ecuador's largest city, would not be included in the
project because the Bank-financed urban development project is already
underway there and because BEV/JNV concentrated their efforts in Guayaquil in
1980 and 1981. The selection of cities was made on the basis of an assessent
of several factors which take account of (i) the prevalence of low-income
settlements; (ii) the population growth rate; (iii) development potential;
*           (iv) location of local development programs; (v) land availability; (vi)
proximity of off-site infrastructure; and (vii) accessibility.   The
orientation of the proposed project towards secondary cities -- 57 percent of
the investment would be in these cities -- corrects BEV/JNV's historical bias
towards investments in Quito and Guayaquil. In seven of the proposed target
cities, BEV has already acquired satisfactory project sites, and all of the
remaining sites have been identified and are being acquired. During
negotiations, BEV agreed to acquire by December 31, 1982, all the sites
required for carrying out the project (Section 2.11 of the draft Project
Agreement).
43.      The new housing component would account for about US$60 million (or
60 percent) of total project costs including contingencies. It would consist
of constructing 8,200 housing solutions comprising: (i) 3,150 serviced lots
each costing about US$2,700 in 1981 prices. Most of these lots would be
90 m2 in size and each would be connected to water, sewerage and electrical
services; (ii) 2,450 basic units costing about US$5,700. These basic units
would be serviced lots similar to those provided in (i) but would include



- 12 -
18.7 m2 of cement block or wood construction on the lot -- basically a room
and a sanitary core which would represent the kitchen/bathroom/laundry; and
(iii) 2,600 expanded units costing about US$6,900. These units would be
expanded versions of the basic unit provided in (ii) and would include 36.6
m2 of construction which would provide space for two bedrooms. In the case
of all these housing solutions,JNV would provide families signing the loan
with municipally approved plans for expanding their dwellings over time in
accordance with their needs and as financial circumstances permit.
44.       While these constructions would be simple, they would provide the
fundamental elements of a home, which could then be finished by the owner.
Constructing in this way would enable low-income families to afford the
houses. JNV would construct the housing solutions referred to above and then
sell them to the owners at full cost; BEV would provide financing for up to
85 percent of the sale price. The design work for this component is well
advanced, final designs have been completed for five sites and preliminary
designs are complete for five of the remaining six sites. However, the
design work for one site -- the second one in Quito -- has been deliberately
deferred until later this year so that BEV/JNV have an opportunity to
incorporate the lessons learnt during preparation of the other project
sites. This would be prepared by BEV/JNV, by December 31, 1982 and, together
with JNV's overall construction program for the rest of the project period,
would be reviewed and commented on by the Bank (Section 3.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement).   This review would allow the Bank to measure and comment on
BEV's and JNV's improvements in their planning and project preparation
procedures generally, as well as on the design of the second Quito site.
45.      The urban upgrading component would represent about US$5 million (or
5 percent) of total project costz, including contingencies, and would focus
on improving living conditions in areas which have already been settled in an
unplanned manner. This component is innovative since such upgrading has not
been tried previously by BEV/JNV. Thus, a pilot upgrading project would be
executed in one city -- Machala -- where about 1,200 lots would be upgraded
before upgrading is tried in other cities.
46.       The details of the upgrading scheme would be developed in
consultation with residents in the area. Typical settlements that would be
included in the project consist of owner-built bamboo houses in poor
settlements which have no access to piped water or sewerage. The project
would provide these settlements with basic services, including roads and
improved drainage.  BEV/JNV would do the work and be repaid by the local
municipal council, which would recover the costs through an increased tax
on the residents. Provided this pilot scheme proceeds successfully, it would
be expanded to other cities where another 1,200 lots would be improved. The
other locations chosen would probably be the coastal cities of Esmeraldas,
Quevedo, Babahoyo and El Empalme.
47.      The community facilities component would comprise about US$8 million
(or 8 percent) of project costs. This would cover the cost of providing a
total of 10 schools, 7 health centers, 9 day-care centers, 14 community
centers and one police station in the areas benefiting from the project.
Planning for these facilities has been coordinated with the sectoral planning
agencies.  The Government would finance the capital costs of these facilities
(para. 52).



- 13 -
48.      The home improvement loan component would represent about US$20
million (or 20 percent) of project costs. This would provide about 7,000
small loans -- from a minimum of about US$170 to a maximum of about US$3,300
-- to residents of identified low-income areas.  These loans would be at
BEV's standard interest rate (para. 53) and most would have a 5 year term.
Beneficiaries would utilize these loans to build new houses on the serviced
lots provided under the new housing component or to make improvements in
existing houses in established low-income neighborhoods.
49.      The project management component would represent about US$7 million
(or 7 percent) of project costs. Nearly 80 percent of this would consist of
salaries for the staff who would be working full time on the project. The
remaining 20 percent would cover the cost of buying 16 vehicles and
establishing and equipping project offices in the cities involved.
50.      The technical assistance component would represent US$2 million (or
2 percent) of project costs. This component would include:
(i) about 210 staff months of consulting services to help with
supervising the project, designing follow-up projects, and
improving BEV/JNV's financial and technical management;
(ii)  training of BEV/JNV's staff; a plan for this is being
developed; and
(iii) improving BEV's information system. The project provides funds
for an analysis of BEV's computer needs and for the purchase of
a computer to meet these needs.
Project Execution
51.      BEV/JNV would jointly execute the project, with JNV carrying out
physical implementation while BEV would handle the financial aspects of the
project. Project staff would be located within BEV/JNV's normal management
structure. No special project unit would be formed -- in order to maximize
the extent to which both overall organizations would participate in, and
benefit from, the project.   However, a full time project manager has been
selected by JNV to be responsible for day-to-day supervision of the project
and to make sure that construction would proceed as scheduled. In addition,
*           at a more senior level a project coordinator would be designated to be
responsible for inter-departmental coordination and to ensure that the
institutional objectives of the project were being met. Because of its
importance to prompt execution of the project, selection of the project
coordinator would be a condition for loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
52.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$100.4 million,
excluding taxes and duties from which BEV/JNV, as Government institutions,
are exempt. The foreign exchange component is US$24.8 million or about 25
percent. Physical contingencies average 16 percent and average price
contingencies of 17 percent per annum are included in local costs. Annual
price contingencies of 8.5 percent in 1982, 7.5 percent from 1983 to 1985 and
6.0 percent in 1986 are included in foreign costs. The proposed loan of
US$35.7 million would include about US$528,000 to cover the capitalized



- 14 -
front-end fee and the balance would finance 35 percent of project costs
including the entire foreign exchange component and US$10.4 million in local
costs. Financing of some local costs is recommended for the Bank to have a
meaningful participation in the total cost of the Project and since a high
proportion of the benefits of the project are expected to accrue to the urban
poor. The major share (49 percent) of project costs (about US$49.4 million)
would be financed from BEV's own resources and beneficiary down payments.
The central Government would provide US$15.8 million in counterpart funds
(equivalent to 16 percent of project costs) to construct the community
facilities component (Section 3.01(c)(vi) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Central Government would also insure that the health posts and the schools
built under the project would be adequately operated and maintained and --
because of the financial weakness of secondary city municipalities -- would
insure that there would be sufficient funds for the operation and maintenance
of residential infrastructure and community centers included in the project
(Section 3.06 the draft Loan Agreement).
Relending Terms
53.       The Bank loan would be made to the Republic of Ecuador, which would
assume the foreign exchange risk and then onlend the proceeds to BEV, in
sucres, on the same terms as the Bank's loan (Section 3.01(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, between BEV and the Government would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed Loan (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The onlending interest rate charged by BEV for house loans would
initially be 15 percent. -This rate is about equal to the current rate of
inflation and would provide BEV with a spread of over 3 percentage points on
the cost of the Bank loan; this margin is sufficient. This rate, and BEV's
system of pricing houses, would be reviewed annually and revised -- as needed
and in a manner satisfactory to the Bank -- to achieve an average financial
rate of return which is not negative in real terms taking into account, inter
alia, variations in the consumer price index (Section 2.08 of the draft
Project Agreement). BEV's loans would have maturities ranging between 5 to
20 years, with the new housing loans having maturities of 15years or more.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.      Civil works contracts valued at US$1 million or more, totaling about
US$12 million, would be awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines.  Smaller civil works contracts, under US$1
million in size, totaling about US$40 million, would not be large enough to
attract international bidders and are too spread out, geographically, to
permit them to be packaged.  These would, therefore, be awarded through local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. The Bank would retain
the option of agreeing that some of the urban upgrading component (up to a
limit of US$5 million) be done by force account and of agreeing that some of
the civil works for new housing be done using the cooperative labor of
beneficiaries (up to a limit of US$5 million), where these approaches would
be feasible and economical. The only large equipment item (a computer),
valued at about US$800,000, would be procured by international competitive
bidding. All other equipment, with a total value of US$500,000 would be
procured by local bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.



- 15 -
Consultant services included in the project would be contracted in accordance
with Bank guidelines and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(Sections 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement and 2.02 of the draft Project
Agreement). It is estimated that a total of 186 man-months of local
consultants would be used -- at an annual monthly cost of US$2,500 -- and 24
months of foreign consultants.   These would be, typically, senior executives
who would have short assignments. Therefore the average monthly cost of
foreign consultants, including subsistance and travel, is estimated at
US$11,300.
55.      The project would be implemented over a four and a half year period
from early 1982 to late-1986 -- and the proposed closing date is June 30,
1987.   Disbursements would cover (i) 42 percent of eligible expenditures for
materials and civil works, including engineering design and supervision
associated with the new housing and urban upgrading; (ii) 42 percent of BEV
disbursements for the home improvement loans; and (iii) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 42 percent of local expenditures for consultant
services and computer equipment included in the technical assistance
component. The Bank would disburse neither against land costs, nor against
the community facilities component (which the Government would finance) nor
against project administration costs. Up to US$1.1 million of Bank funds
would be available for retroactive financing of start-up costs associated
with the project (including management, technical assistance and some civil
works), which have been incurred since August 1, 1981. The prospect of this
financing has helped maintain the momentum of project preparation; without it
the reorientation of the BEV/JNV program would have been unnecessarily
delayed by about nine months.
BEV's Financial Situation
56.      BEV's assets have expanded rapidly during the 1970s.  Total assets
increased more than 10 times in the 1972-80 period, to US$328 million.
This growth in assets was funded mainly by (i) savings deposits, which
provided 33 percent of funds invested; (ii) retained earnings, which provided
34 percent; and (iii) transfers from the Government's petroleum revenues.
Borrowings, on the other hand, have accounted for only about 5 percent of
BEV's funds. Although these resources were provided at relatively low
nominal cost, BEV's profitability was low -- average return on equity between
1972 and 1980 was 7.1 percent -- because of the subsidized rates of interest
it charged on its loans.  BEV lent its money at fixed interest rates as low
as 7 percent through March 1981 and has only recently introduced more
realistic interest rates.
57.       BEV's sources of funds situation is changing.  More specifically,
at a time when its programs are being oriented more towards meeting the needs
of low-income families, BEV has had to rely more on borrowing to finance
continued growth owing to constraints on the amounts the Government can con-
tribute to BEV's programs. As the cost of recent borrowings has averaged
over 10 percent, this borrowing has put pressure on profitability and BEV
suffered a loss of about US$10 million in 1981. The Bank's analysis during
preparation and appraisal indicated that unless financial policy changes were
made, BEV would continue to lose money in the future. To forestall this BEV
recently increased its effective interest rate to 15 percent.   While this
rate is currently satisfactory, in order to insure that further adjustments
are made, if necessary, BEV would also annually review its interest rates
and, in agreement with the Bank, adjust them as needed (para. 53).
Furthermore, by December 31, 1982, BEV would provide the Bank, for comment,



- 16 -
a draft statement of financial policy and, by March 31, 1983, BEV would adopt
such a statement (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement). This
statement would provide specific and appropriate guidelines for BEV's
interest rates and its house pricing. Finally, BEV would, by the same date,
establish a financial management information system, on which the Bank will
have an opportunity to comment. BEV would also exchange views with the Bank,
at least annually thereafter, about any change in BEV's financial projections
and about measures being taken to maintain the institution's financial
strength (Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement).
58.      During the 1982-86 period, BEV is planning to increase its lending
levels by 14 percent p.a. on average to US$199 million -- in real terms about
double the average of the preceding five years. These investments would be
financed from savings deposits and BEV's income from operations (62 percent),
the proposed Bank loan (5 percent), other borrowing (22 percent) and
Government contributions (11 percent). The total of non-Bank borrowing which
BEV would require in 1982-86 comes to US$157.3 million and BEV has already
received commitments for this amount. Since BEV's financial situation
requires it to pursue a policy of careful debt management, during negotia-
tions it was agreed that during the proposed project's execution BEV would
not incur any further loans -- over and above the commitments already
mentioned -- unless its internal cash generation was at least 1.3 times its
projected debt service (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Economic Benefits and Poverty Impact
59.       The overall rate of return for those components of the project
which have quantifiable benefits (equivalent to 90 percent of total project
costs) is 18 percent. The new housing component is estimated to have a
return of 17 percent, the home improvement loans are estimated to have a
return of 21 percent and the urban upgrading component a return of 41
percent. If benefits were to decline by 10 percent, the rate of return
would still be a satisfactory 15 percent. The benefits for the remaining 10
percent of project costs -- comprising the commmunity facilities and the
technical assistance components -- while not quantifiable are important. The
health centers and schools to be provided under the project, for example, are
expected to contribute to improved health and education standards for the
target families. The technical assistance component, on the other hand,
would help BEV/JNV in the process of reorienting their programs towards
providing affordable, low-cost housing while strengthening BEV's financial
base.
60.      The project is expected to directly improve the living conditions of
approximately 81,000 people (14,800 families); about 8,200 families would
benefit from the new housing component and another 6,600 families from the
home improvement and urban upgrading components. In addition, about 12,000
construction jobs would be directly generated by the project. Approximately
50 percent of this investment would directly benefit families whose members
have incomes below the absolute poverty threshold.   Most beneficiaries are
individuals who have previously been excluded from owning housing. The sites
and services components would be affordable to the poorest 20 percent of
urban families. The 18 and 36 square meter basic units would, on average, be
affordable to the poorest 50 percent of urban families. In order to minimize
the chance of failing to achieve the project's intended poverty impact,
specific affordability targets were agreed at negotiations and the Government
and the Bank further agreed that JNV would furnish the Bank, by no later than
November 30 of each year, a report on plans for meeting these affordability
targets (Section 3.03 and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement). These



- 17 -
targets specify the income levels of the households expected to be able to
afford the new housing. Should costs during construction increase
sufficiently to jeopardize the achievement of these targets, JNV would be
required to make appropriate changes in housing designs.
61.       By assisting BEV/JNV and the Government to implement a broad based
low-income housing project which does not depend on subsidies, the project
should demonstrate an approach which could then be implemented by BEV/JNV, or
other housing developers in Ecuador, on a wider scale. In the process,
existing constraints to the construction of low-cost shelter -- e.g.
unrealistically demanding building codes -- have been modified or removed.
Finally, BEV should be sufficiently strengthened through this project to make
it possible for the Bank, or another source of finance, to use it as a
channel for sector lending for low-income housing in Ecuador in the future.
Risks
62.      Because of the institutional and technical simplicity of the
project, and because project preparation has been done in-house by BEV and
JNV -- a fact which means that both agencies are already familiar with the
project -- the risks of major delays during implementation of the project are
minimal. However, there are risks implicit in the relatively novel
orientation of the project towards lower income clients. These are: (i) the
technical risk arising from the fact that the emphasis in the project on
self-help construction and generally lower construction standards is one with
which JNV has little experience; and (ii) the financial risk that repayment
problems might occur among the lower income beneficiaries which could
negatively atfect BEV's financial soundness. The technical risk would be
kept to a manageable level by the fact that consultants experienced in this
kind of project would assist JNV with its implementation. The financial risk
should be compensated by the fact that BEV has a proven capability to keep
arrears low -- these constitute only about 2 percent of its portfolio, one of
the best performances amongst housing banks in Latin America. Moreover, the
fact that BEV would earn an adequate spread on the loan should help insure
its financial well being.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between BEV and the Bank, and the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.      The main features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in the
text and listed in Section III of Annex III. There would be two special
conditions of effectiveness: (i) the execution of a subdidiary loan
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government and BEV; and (ii)
the selection of the coordinator for the project.
65.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments                                       by E. Stern
Washington, D.C.
April 15, 1982



- 19 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.4)                                                    - HST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL           283 6                                MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     51.7              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                            390.0   1050.0                   1616.2                   2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA                                   *
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    208.3       316.9    654.1                   1324.1                   2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4413.0      6015.0   8081.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.4       39.5      44.0                    64.2                     53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     14.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       28.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      15.6        21.2      28.5                    34.3                    80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    93.5       123.1    151.0                     94.5                   133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.4        45.4      44.5                    40.7                    30.1
15-64 YRS.                        52.0        50.8      51.9                   55.3                     61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.6         3.8       3.6                     4.0                     8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.8         3.1/c     3.3                     2.4                      1.5
URBAN                             4.8         4.5       4.5                    3.7                      3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.5        43.0      40.3                    31.4                    22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    13.7        10.6       9.6                     8.4                     9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4         3.2       3.0                     2.3                     1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         9.0      32.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..       6.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        104.0       101.0    100.0                    108.3                   119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  84.0        91.0      92.0                   107.6                   125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         50.0        52.0      50.0                    65.8                    92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      26.0        27.0      25.0                    34.0                    39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    22.8        15.7      10.3                     7.6                     3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   51.0        56.2      61.0                   64.1                     68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         140.0       118.0      66.0                    70.9                    25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        34.0      42.0                    65.7
URBAN                              ..        76.0      84.0                    79.7
RURAL                              ..         7.0      13.0                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        22.4      32.3                    59.9
URBAN                              ..          ..      60.0                    75.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      13.0                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2664.9      2891.8   1621.5                   1728.2                   973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2280.0      1620.9        ..                  1288.2                   896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           531.4       428.9    507.0                   471.2                    262.3
URBAN                              ..       305.3        ..                   558.0                   191.8
RURAL                              ..      4570.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        19.3        ..                      ..                    18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.1/e       5.2       5.3
UPRBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.5/e        ..
URBAN                             2.1          ..IT
RURAL                             2.87         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            32.0/e        ..      41.2
URBAN                            78.5/.e               84.3
RURAL                             6.0/e        ..      11.6



- 20 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                         Page  2  of  5
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGbTED AVERA9Es
- MOST RECENT ESTIMA7%) -
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 83.0       100.0    108.0                     101.7                     105.9
MALE                 87.0       103.0     110.0                    103.0                    109.6
FEMALE               79.0        97.0    106.0                     101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                12.0        26.0      46.0                     35.3                     66.3
MALE                 13.0        28.0      48.0                     34.9                     73.2
FEMALE               10.0        24.0      43.0                     35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 29.0         11.0       11.0/d                  30.1                     28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        38.0      36.0                     29.6                     26.8
SECONDARY                         11.0        14.0      16.0                     15.7                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       67.5/e      68.0       76.6                    80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         4.5       7.4                     42.6                     83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        38.5       282.6        ..                    215.0                    181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5        24.9      45.0                     89.0                    131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 54.0        41.6      46.3                     62.8                    123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         4.0        5.6                     3.2                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    1442.7       1936.2    2593.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  16.3        19.1      20.8                     22.6                     32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             57.4        50.9       51.6                    35.0                     34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.4        22.2      17.6                     23.2                     28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.7        32.2       32.1                    31.8                     42.3
MALE                                55.0        52.1       50.4                    49.0                     56.5
FEMALE                              10.6        12.3       13.5                    14.6                     28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1.5        1.5                     1.4                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     269.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     183.0                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    307.0                     513.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      77.0                    362.2                    385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      65.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c  Intercensal growth rate is 3.2% (1962-74);  /d 1975;  /e 1962.
* 1980 GNP per capita is US$1220 at 1978-80 prices and exchangp rate.
*  The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates shown in
the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $1,220 (at 1978-80 prices) and
8,357 (thousands).



- 21 -                                                                                      ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICAIRRS
Nones:  Although the dots  -r  draw  fro  soce. geerll  judged the moan a-h-iat-r- and reliable, in eloold also he noted tha t they may ant ba later-
nationalIly ..anpotable  ..oosa. of the  1lao  of sadrle  detiisssd oo....pts used by differet   Ioo                 .leS  collotieg the data.  The date sin I.a...
thelesa, asefa1 to desrite  -rder  of saoiue,ldloars treds, sod ch.rarterios o-rts t   ajor differenos h tweet on...tties..
The reeeceg ps one (I the tsar coutr  grou,p of the euh)rit on..iry and (2)    ...oatny group cith ..oeewhst high-e avrge ile..an than tha loeatry greup
of ae sbjeo...ooanny  tce    fr"Cpia  Su-Pla Oill Eporters" grop whtor  "Middla Inon.a Nort1 AfrIca and P1d.iddE4lot" Is abhs .. abso...  of ottoager
si-olraaffinitiee).  In the ref-",c groap dana the  . aneges ar  Popaatian weighteId srith.e.l ten_os foreah'idato n   hown ony  he
majority of the  onries lo   groay has data fo Itbst itdictar..  Sino  th.s coeege at crnreuog  h.Ia Odloato- depeada on the a-ilsbti ty ef  at
and Is  otnefers,. oatio  mus  he. eanr_lsd in relating  -vrgos ef ona indina-o an anothnr.  Thea.. ausrgn  are only ...efal So coepoelng the valu  oft
one  ndiato  at a  ima stoo   thn ....ery and -ese-e   g-oopa.
LAND ARESA (thooa...d sq.ho.)                                                                      Popula~tiondper H-aylta1 Sed - ntal., -chan, and  --ol -oPpoplation  (read1,
Tstal - Total.. sofae area o-mplinig 1ood are  nod Jland -at-r                                     _rh,  -an -rra) divIded by thi   -epeotine number of hospita1 beds
Asiutrl- istisce otfg       c         -oalae  o..d tenporarly or permanetly                ousilabla in pblin nod privat  g             _ealad epanilahlad htnpitalI.-adne
foe orps, pastre, maket sod kitthen gardens or no lie fallon; lops dana.                        habilitati.oc...n...  OnepiWal  see natohbII.nI_  peemnenaI tcrft
by at least noo phyaliain. Etsnbllahs..oC. penvidieg pnianipally ousta-
GNP PER CAPITA  UIS)) - GNP Pee oapi-  -stisan   at correen make t ptiuss,.os-                       dial c... art .one inetadd R. bra   hospinals, hone..ar, inelude healrh
anIseed by same .. c   -vri-t method no W-rld tan  Atlas (lo-P9 bsis); 190,                        an    eiAl centers nor permanetly atsffod by A physician  (hot by
lOP, ad losdt.ndmloa   ts an,nus, ciwiM   ate) eibnfrd-ain    a
dani-n snd p-nide a limited tago of           toinl isihis.  Ps- statEs-
ENERGEY CONSUIttTIiN PEE CAPITA - AnnuaI cato...ptito  of  -o-enil energy (coal                      tical parpasos arbon hospitals. inlude WHOil  pr.iaepa/gee.c. Ibhspicals,
sad lignite,  -o-lsmntrl gos and hydro-, nunles  and gontherel nIne-                              s.d rucsl hospinal    ..oa  or roesl hospitals sad medtsl sad  atee-ity
trin ity) in kilogram   of coal eqair-ln   pee noPiSes  1906, lOPS, sod 19(9                       ceonart     peia-edhoptl  are tioladed only andet tetal.
dta.                                                                                           ANsin   a  gsio   e    Tota  nuber of  dmisi.e. to  -r disthoeges
mom. hospitals divided by the tuban nf beds.
POPUL,ATION AND VITAL, STATISTICS
Tetal Porolation, Said-Yea  (thoa.onda) - As of July 1; 1906, 1970, and lOPS                  HousTiS
RrbsoPnlton(cen  of total) - Ratio of urbann to Ital pnpnlation;                                   A house hold onit   fagwp of  iniiul   ho                iaelvs  qaseers
diffsret dsfli tionI ofora  arsemy affect comparbilitp of data                                   n   hi  mi   els.  A boarder or ldg-r may orma  net be iwnlsded in
among n-tneie; 1961.1,adSPdt.                                                                    the  houehld for stItistin1 PrPoses..
Foea1.iani    Pti-teci.os                                                                       Average . b onue f  _ee_o  ee- room- tonal,  -rba.. and rral - Averag  as-
Powato   In yea  lOll - Torrent pplto   e tin   t  based on 1901                          ben of p-r-o  per rata in all urban- n             Iwnlecpie  tnwsstinn
ntal. population hy  jog  and won ond their macaity sad fertility rte.tdwllng.  r-p-cti-ely.  Dere1lings   ald.                                  a-emnn   r-otares and
P     Pr     - o .i . prmtor. for _ cnaitay rates ump,ise of rher  levels am...-              onooopied Facts.
too life  . o  -putt  at bithItt cra-l-ngnhith ununcy' P yen  aylt  inone                   Aolea. to ellecicitj (percen  ofAolwn)-total, onun, ad  -nal-
level, sod fMal  life copeccanny anshiliaisg an 77.5 yearn   The Pars-                        Coeveetinal deallinge with ele-teiityl is livie   quer.-Ntereaspacetage
meter  fo  fernility  cane olm  hav  th-twe           lan .sa .siog declins in                oft tonal, urbe, sod cons  dellingmre-PtnicelY.
fertlit  an...ndiog no Incom  leve  and past iaily pl.oning poef-r-ne
ta   cunryi  thor assigned one of thn  nin  coml.binations of  -trnlinp                   tDUCATION
andi fertility trands for yrojectio  puros_                                                 Adjuwned Enrollmen  Rtios
Sta-toory porulstion-lIoaant.iwnary  "polsntiol there is nn growth sines                        Primar  school - total, male and fml           rs   tats1, male sad femal
she birth rots Is equa  to the de-ib rts, and als  the age se           sr rt--en_llns-  of all aea at the primary Il.val am p-reetagea o a .Ptrepaice
oosnnsot. TisIt achlevd ol   fe  fertility rates decline to                                  peinary mehoel-gpputio;wrayimudebideaed-1
the rep1laceen  level of ..icst  reyr-d-tinn rate. chew enh genrat-           ayeses, bun adjusted for differst 1magthm  of primany edost ia; foe
of  -sme  replones itself enacIy.  The statIonr  pnpltio  alee. wasoutrias clth uiversl ednstiss .Nrollmeat may saceed lR peroems
ostimted on tAn basia of the puje-tad th-t-inntinlts of the populttin                           slow  mem  pupils  -r  below n- ahov  the official nohsl age.
inthe y-a  20lE, sold the rtct of dnina of fertility oars to raplae-...d.ymeoo   tonal, malesd female - Cmpnted as above; ceseadm
cent lavel.                                                             sducanionreqwiree an .esan is_r years ef appeecd primary i.testrniem;
Yesr  !taia...ny Ppapulaion iw res..bed - The y.A, when  ttaio..sep pspulatinn                     provIdes general,  woaniota... on smactas  srits.  isetr...ai..e foe papib
miss has been  -echbd.                                                                           .e.ailp of 12 en  P yearn of age;  srreaPssden..e ...re.. cre ge...nelp
Ponaaxtio  Pemit                                                                                     eelded.
Psr mu. ho.- Mid-pear popolatio Pin  abate kilo..et-r (100 h-nt-e) of                           Poostisawi enol.meat (cec-at of se-wdee) - V.astlsel iesaiatfsme..
total aral961,t19P1 and 19P9 data.                                                              iooetaoc    idsra,w   te  program   which spete imdepsd-
Per a. he.agricltura  land - Computed as Itocs for agrinlt-rl land                          watlp  ru  detstm  of eItadary inetitstisnc.
osP.ly; 1910, 1971 and 1979 dato.                                                               FNpil-teah-e ratin - Erimary. n  emad         dro-,Ttsa1 mawdetta  -erld is
Fpletien Ass Seruanor  (p-r.e.t) - ThuOres- (i-l4 ye-r), anekiog-sge (15-                         primary sigscodrlvl  dividd  by nuber, at n-he.. In the
64 pear), sad r-nir-d (65 yoaro a ad ovr) as peroctagas of mid-pes  ppn-                           .oesp. dig. evls
lanion; 1960, 1970, old 19P9 dana.                                                               MaltI               literc--s ecanl-tiaaedolts  (able to read an -wits)
Porolotion Ge..th Rate (.aroent) - ttal - Annual grasth ratew  of total mid-                         sas.p-rcennge of tote1 adlt pspnlation sged 15 Y_ar  asdaee
yea popnlati..ns for950-60, 1960-PS), and 1970-P7S.
"Ponatnin  month  ats (perceat) -  chw - duAs  grotht rtesI ofurapp-                          CENSUMPTION
lalos  oe191-0,1960-P0, and lP70-79.                                                    hsmas Cr    e    .hom.n  esoulIion      aaagrtr                    mrc sa
Crndw Rirth Rnte (refthosn) - Annua  IIw births per thousand of mid-yea                             as w-ale  than eiht paen;acdssmoae,bare    i
tpoplaItion;t1h1, l1OPS,ad1919 data,                                                              military  -ahiele..
Trde Reath RoeI ewe thnusnl )- Annua deaths per ths.....ds of mid-year                         Radio Rteciverm  Iotr thass-I ppelation   - All typee of --oi-ers fee eadie
poysletion; 196i, 1970, and 1979 data.                                                          broado...ts to  smrlpnblia Pee thousan.d of  .paplasios; secldes e-
l..u Poerduottun~- sat -b rgo nuber of.daghtoran woa   ill bant in                               licemadne_i_ors in  -onteisa and in poses wh.a.eisnsenf fdia
her ..-I e-pr-ductiv- period itfb  an peias pean ... ge-epeififa-stnt in efot; data for rmet yere may cot be  np.teblt clans
riitraassealy fve -Ayear, avoragas  od lsg in lOgi, l9PE, and 1579f                       os natria  alIsd liesig.
Family Flusias- _etoa  Anua  (tho....ds) - Annual nuber of s--peare                             TV Rena.ic.rs leer thoosod popolatien)   TV  sei            fee besad..st to
of hrbII-ontre  devce  .nd.r a.Pines of ..sti...  family paen  prgram,                          geerlpulc  erawusd populetien  eno I.c wali-emed T   aec
anyFanies-Imer_   (rr t of'sariad woar   -'r F..netrge of marie                             is nanriead to yaa- ehn registration  of TV sat  we  is  ffea.
comes  f obid-boarog ag  (15-4  py-e) who use hi~rth-netsl deviant to                Nweran_ Cirtulatien iP-r thousan.d esletian) -Sibhw   the a-sag  air-
alm arIed wome  Is.m Isog  group.                                                               oulatina of "daily gensrni interact  esepaper", defined as    psoidlaml
publiantian davotd primaily to -e_wdig  enRs.. -1w..  It it toeidered
FiRS AND NUTRITION                                                                                   no be' "daily" if is appears at l...t fear times   macis.
Sudan of Food prodot.... nor Caries (16-11:~00) - Idan of Pet capita annual.                     Cinem  AnnuaI Attendaco Per Cseitt per Year - Maced en the nsbe  of
productinoal  food  -sodini-s  FP-d-otls  -slde   ed and fined and                              tloketa meld Awning the yawn. imeladlag admJ.issm  to dnie-im  timem
I -Is,nalna  pea  halm    Coemditlstov-r pr~imayogoods (e.g. esgsr....                          and mobile ..it..
inetnad of sag) whic  tr   diblI Isd tnanin astisots (e.g. ..ffe. wad
tea are mauded).  Aggregate p-ed-tniw  sf ahs ... eatry It base d anLABRO  FORCE
national acarge prodon-  piac w-ightm; log61-65, 1970, and 1979 data.                         Tate1 Lahoe Fame (thau...nde) - Etannamltely satins PAnese, imaItding
Per ",rIta euey Of alociam  (percent of roieet)- Computed fran                                  armdifaroam  sad    mPleynd bun e..luding   twews .atdmats, ste.,
_mEry eqavains  of one fond supplies avslsble in couneny Per .a.pita                          _eenog poultion of all ages.  aefitilna is  _oi_n   aents   t
pee day.  Available ..,pllos c_ptise dnnetic  -td-cticn, imp-st  lawn                         net enopsesbln; 1906, 1070 -md 1970 dana.
emprtte, sad ohogew  In stock.  aNtsple  awldaaialfed   eds.                                Fealfer jt) - Feml-          Ie soaapretge    Coftta  Sber fen.
qo_titis  san..d In food prn-twiag, and lese  in diarhcw.Rqis                                gistr  (caestl - labor fore     faming,tforesftry, bsntngsa
manes wre satiated by PAR hone d on physiological nee ds Ear  -aa  seni-                      flinking seper-etags of total labor fares; 1960, 19P0 end 1970 data.
viYad healthco idrasvrannl nemp-rtore, body weightsI, age                                  ad-try_frer..ot) -lbor fores I inling, oseeaoto,   esso sdg
and sa_ dl.ttibotioa o  population, sad allwig  0  er- "  f or wat   tad eleetnheity, waa  .an  gs.                                    - as .prcetage of notal labs  f...e; 190k,
hoosehald level1; 1961-65, 1970, and lOO  data,g                                              lOPS and 1079 data.t
Per cents s'pply of proteIn (grm Ic    day)I rti   otw   efpropt                                atnnto    at  nrmn      aa.ml,sd femae   Petiwipati"  -r
-t suppl  of fund Pen day.  Sen supply of food In deinf   asaoe.R-stislny, tes_                                  eseute   N to.     tsl  male, and feal  ln   mn-a
qniraneaaa for all  ...otri_a established by USDA Pr-vdr for ainimu                           peo seeo oa, male end femlepouensaafeI Age.  eepsotiv-ly;
allaw-nca of 6Si pam  of tonal protein pen dsp aed 25 gra_a ofaImalan                        P19Sf, 1970, and109  data.  These see beed'em RIO' pentiripetie    ease.
pulseP prtin,I of which 11 groma shond he ankiaR protein.  These `sad                         rtfleotingsg.-..s.teaetsr   of th.opltin  antna tim                    oed.  A
ads are lowe  than those of P5 gra-  of ntal. protein and 23 grams of                        fe einatesar -   rum masiemal. ore..
animal peetain as an averags fo  thn vwrld, Prope...d by PAO in tha Third                   Roomaio ReP-ndemy Rtio - Ratio  1  of .ppIaion sedee 11 and 65 endse
World flond Srvey( 19665-h5, 1907  and loop data,                                             en-the t_tllea  fre
Perosife er__in  up    f rm  animal ad pulse - Protein aupplp of food de-
rie   rmsimas and Pulses in gras  pa  dsp;1961-65. 19P0 and 197 7P.dts.             ENCOIE DISTERtETIOR
Child (see  1-6  Notoality Rote (per thousand) - A-.n.I deatba per thousan.d In                 Per..entat  of Privt  locoma-I  (bosh In cash sod kind) - Received brioheet
ag  gop I-4 year, to nhildra i.      ci aeropfemst dorlpe   ON5prat   ihs 5                                          pres,orstPprea,ndsnmtb if  enan
tries data deriv-d fro  life ctblam; 1960, 197  and 1979 data,                                  of     -t benhlha.t20pr.tp..t20p
HsEALTHt                                                                                        POVRSrYR TARGET GROUPS
lfe EopootaorY an RiethLyears) - Avers .e  b.ka  of yearn of life remining                      Tie Es11imin  esniento  arm eossproi-n  anu    of pocety levels,
at birth; 196f, SO70 and 1029 dens                                                              and should he int-rp-otd withceidsbeotem
Inf-w ttntlity Rot  (par thousand) - An...I deaths of infants under one y-s                       siae   beeeFveyIom   anS(YOetont)-sbnedma 
of  gepe  tbowt ir   irh.Abmeltns p-vety moon  level Is that iowa leve  below   hioh a minima
Access enIit      Wtroereto                     thoaeos toa.uharsdrrl     a-triticnsllp edequat  dtat plum... eseteal se-foad reqae ets is mat
her of people (tots1, arbu, and trura) wt  resnbleacs   otf                                       fsdh
wanes suh as th-t fone ptstsctd bnnnhslnn, sp onl,ad s-ntnsy walls) IS                          is     d R.ltv   povety i -ne    laceS      US is one-thirdo   averaepa   umpre
forceataga of their.. repotind poptnlat1IoIns.            I Insu hsaespnlo.    1                penmem1al mo   of she onsotry.  Urban leve  is deet-d from  the cora
fosawinor  nanpotloctedoatmar  tha  2R  meersfro   a bassmayhe           eve  wi th adjwamtmt far higher east of lining im websees
ewnider-d As being within resobla  ees   fthan ...m.  In cora    ..es                        Etsimstd  o"ulat.os Relem Ahelste Poverty Isoame Lave  (os-oms) - webs
re oble aces  wod implY that the hou.coif.oer member  at the ho..sehald                     and rura  - Psat of papalation  (urban sad rura) wh. ace "ahlts
ft nws hov  to apeisd.disFrpnrt-inaes Pan  oi the day to fetching the                             oo"
fmmily' soret oed.
Acces  to  nrt liscDios..l (-eecat of pslintts                   -uban, ted novl 
umb-r of  .Peopl  )Rtsl., urban,Fan  _urol) momm   by enomi-  diaponl as
pe_anea   of tartspeotic   populations.  Eocenta disposal mapy i-elude
the .   Moteio  and dieposa, with  -r sishut treatmentt,of humneeeeo-neeadNnS ,aRcse
br  tostllas                                                                                                                                       Nay S98l
Fa aiaPer Ph,aca   Population divide  ip washer aiPranticing physi-
chae qaliiodfro   a mdical schoolItatsirritylvl
Paplalo  pe  OrsnoPseec  - FpuPl-tl- divided bp o-b-r at prantiig
male sad feml  grad nate       es  practical warm.... s.dssisonre.



- 22 -                                                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 Pr 5
ECUADOR - ECOONMIC INDICATORS
Populutlo:,:          9,357 (           tid-hOPO, rhousands)
CNP Per Capita:      US$1220 - (1980)
Amount                          Average Annual Increase (0)                          Share uf CDP at Market Pric-s (M)
(rillion US$                         (at constant 1975 prim.)                                 (at current prices)
Indicator                                   at .reret prices)                      --------------------------                          ---------------------------------
1980                         1960-70      1970-75      1975-80                   1960       1970       I971a/    1980a/
NATIlOAt ACCOUNTS
CGcnu dc.e..ic prcduct  /                                11377                            5.8         11.1         6.1                     100.0     100.0       100.0     100.0
Agriculture                                             1439                            4.0          5.4         0.9                      33.3      27.6        17.9      12.6
Induntry cud Mlnira                                    4316                            7.3          20.7         6.3                     19.3       23.0       33.9       37.9
services                                               5185                            6.3           8.0         7.7                     47.4       49.4       43.6       45.6
Consumptiur                                               8738                            S.0          9.8         7.4                     84.6       82.0        79.8       76.6
Gruu..  i-c-ene                                           2833                           18.7         12.2         7.0                      14.0      22.5        26.7      24.9
Expcrtn of Gleds acd NPS                                  2736                            2.7         15.8        -2.0                     17.2       14.9        26.2      24.0
Icpocts nof GCud  and NFS                                 2930                           10.9         12.6         4.3                     15.7       19.4        32.7      25.8
Grust  -utxocal savIngs                                   2193                            -.a          v.a        -6.5                     12.9       16.2        19.4      19.3
Co-pcsition Pf -erchaedise Trade (2)
1976      1977       1978      1979       1980 bl
9MERChA0 1SE EXPORTS                                                                  180.       100.02    108.0      100.0      100.0
_---    -  _ - ------- ---_-_-_  _  _  _  __  _  _ 
Pri-ary                                                                              89.2       79.9       73.7      74.1       76.3
Crcde Petr-l-c                                                                     58.7       48.9      40.0       49.2       55.0
Others                                                                             30.5       32.0      33.7       24.9       21.3
Manufactures                                                                         10.7       20.0       26.2      25.9       23.7
Prer .le. D-nrivatl-es                                                              0.2        0.8       6.1        6.8        7.6
Prucesued Ccc.a                                                                     5.1       13.0      13.5        9.5        7.1
Fish and Seafcod                                                                    1.0        1.4       1.6        1.3        3.6
Others                                                                              4.5        4.8        5.0       8.3        5.4
Merchandise IDprrts                                                                 100.0      100.0      100.0     180.0      100.0
Cuns-e  Candy                                                                      13.1       11.2     -TTC3        1i9       10.9
Intertediate GOedn                                                                 43.8       43.7      36.8       42.8      43.1
Capital Goods                                                                      42.6       42.8      47.7       48.0       45.2
Others                                                                              0.5        2.3        2.2       0.3        0.8
PRICES ANtD TERMt OF TRADE                                                   1975      1976      1977       1978      1979       1980
GDP drflatnr                                                              100.0     112.9    129.9      143.3      166.1      194.9
Etchargn Rate                                                             25.0       25.0      25.0      25.0       25.0      25.0
Enport Price Index                                                        100.0     111.6    135.4      139.4      208.4      270.1
I port Price Indoc                                                        000.0     103.1    116.3      125.9      155.6     172.7
Ter=s uf Trade Inde                                                       100.0     108.2    116.4      110.7      133.9      156.4
A.s  GDP
PUBSIC FINANCIE                                                                           1975                  1980
Currnnt Reveour                                                                        22.9                   2B.7
Currest Espendituce                                                                    18.9                   26.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                              4.0                    2.2
Capital IEpenditure                                                                      7.4                   6.5
Poreign Financing                                                                       4.9                    5.4
1960-70      1970-75       1975-80       1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GDP gnrowh nate (T)                                                      5.8          11.1           6.1           5.4
GDP per capita growth rute (2)                                            2.4          7.5           2.6           2.0
Energy ..o.uption gr-wth rate (7)                                         -             -           11.7           7.0
ICOR                                                                      0.7          2.7           4.3           4.8
Marginal s-visg  rate                                                    -O .4        -0.4          -0.2           0.3
ICpnrt elassticiy                                                         1.9          1.3           0.7           0.8
a/ Cnpenesto eupresned st factor c.t and vill rnt add up be.acar they roclude OndOre-t tares.
bl Prelimi-ary figure..                                                                                                                                       January 29, 1982



- 23 -
ANNEX I
ECUADOR - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                                Pag  5 .f S
(million US$ at torrent prices)
Popoltioth:          6,357 (ad-190, LI.ocea.)
GI,? Fer Lapia:       US$1220 - (1980)
Actual                                  Preliminar- Projected
1976        1977          1978         1979         1980              1981         1982         1983         1984         1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Not Exports of Goods & Services                               -145.4       -659.1       -742.2       -646.9        -616.1              -1138.0    -1052.1       -1343.4      -1209.1      -1035.3
Exports of Goods S Servicen                                 1431.8       1628.2       1740.4        2499.3       2936.0               2993.0      3231.5       3466.3       3864.1       4700.2
Imports of Goods 4 Services                                 1577.2       2287.3       2482.6       3146.2       3552.1                4131.0      4283.6       4809.7       5073.2       5735.5
NRt Transfers                                                    30.7         36.2         40.9         29.8         40.0                 20.0         50.0         56.0         63.0         70.0
Corre-t Accout BRalosce                                       -114.7       -622.9       -701.3       -617.1       -576.1               -1118.0    -1002.1       -1287.4      -1146.1       -965.3
Direct Private Investment                                       -19.9         34.5         48.6         66.0         80.0                100.0        140.0        180.0        240.0        280.0
MLT Loans (fet)                                                 162.5        520.0        447.8        516.1        566.9                835.0      1060.7        1208.8        892.0        770.9
Official                                                       72.7         61.8         91.6         81.9         86.2                 90.0       199.3        270.0        286.5        255.8
Private                                                       89.8        458.2         356.2        434.2        480.7                745.0       861.4        938.8        605.5        515.1
Other Capitol                                                   161.4        204.7        236.5         62.6        155.5               -111.0       -80.0          30.0         80.0         80.0
Change io Official Reserves (-   inorase)                     -189.3       -136.3         -31.6        -27.6      -226.3                 294.0      -118.6       -131.4        -65.9       -165.6
Isternational Reserves (official)                              434.5        570.8        602.4         630.0       856.3                 562.0       680.6        812.0        877.9        1043.5
Official Reserves as Mosths of Imports
of Goods 6 NFS (year-end)                                       3.7          3.4         3.3           2.8          3.5                  2.0         1.9          2.0          2.1           2.2
Actoal
1976       1977        1978        1979        1980
GROSS DISBURSREMNTS
Gross bDisbrsements of MLT Loans                                        217.3       577.9       333.       1864         742
C-onessional                                                           44.7        30.9        20.7        25.2        14.7
Bilateral                                                            24.7        12.0         8.8         7.3         3.7
IDA                                                                   2.7         4.8        0.8         0.2           -
Other Multilateral                                                   17.3        14.1        11.1        17.7        11.0
Non-co.ce.sosIal                                                      172.7       547.0       512.3      1038.9       728.2
Official export credits                                              19.3        24.6        49.0        12.3        14.2
IBRR                                                                  4.1         7.7        22.2       30.9        34.0
Other Moltilateral                                                   17.6         9.9         8.0        28.6        46.3
Private                                                             131.7       504.8       433.1       967.1      633.7
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                                          620.2      1140.3      1388.1      2104.2      2671.1
Offioial                                                              232.        3947        49trs      -73r!      -g!z:
1BRD                                                                 42.0        43.6        60.4       85.2       109.4
IDA                                                                  31.0        35.7       36.4        36.5        36.3
Other                                                               259.9       315.4       389.6      446.5       508.7
Private                                                               287.4       745.6      1101.8      1536.0      2016.7
Undisbursed Debt                                                        449.i0      6458       _7_ .0       8605       1033.4
DEBT SERVICE
Tstal Debt Service Papyents                                              81.6       117.2       205.8       274.3a/    408.3
Interest                                                               25.3        45.0        97.7      r. 3        2!30.2
Anortiatieon                                                           56.4        72.2       108.1       l7,0a/    178.1
Debt Servion as % of Esports of Goods avd NFS                             3.8         7.3        12.1        11.3        14.4
Average Interest on New Loans (X)                                          7.9         7.9         8.2       10.9        10.6
Official                                                                7.7         7.0         3.9         8.6         5.6
Private                                                                 8.0         8.1         9.3        11.3        12.8
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)                                    11.2        10.1        11.6        10.5        13.3
Official                                                               19.3        18.7        29.5        15.3        25.3
Private                                                                 7.3         7.7         7.2         9.7         8.0
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (X)
IBRD DOD/tetal DOD                                                        6.8          3.8        3.8         3.9         4.1
IBRD disbhurerents/total gross disbur.e.ents                              1.9          1.3        4.2         2.7         4.6
IbRD debt serv-ic/rotal debt seroice                                     10.1         8.2         4.8         1.8         4.5
IDA DOD/total DOD                                                         5.0          3.1         2.3        1.7         1.4
IDA disbursements/total disbsrseeents                                     1.2         0.8         0.2         0.0         0.4
IDA debt servi-e/total debt service                                       0.4          0.3        0.2         0.0         0.1
a/  Ea-lades prepaymlent of US$456.2 million.
April 9, 1982



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS  (as of March 31, 1982)
---US$ million---
Amount
Loan or                                                     (less cancellations)
Credit   Fiscal
Number    Year        Borrower         Purpose             Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
12 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                    146.0   37.6       -
1157     1975         Ecuador          Education            4.0     -       2.4
1229     1976         Ecuador          Seeds                3.0     -       0.9
1230     1976         Ecuador          Technical
Assistance         4.0      -      2.9
1231     1976         Ecuador          Highways            10.5      -      0.3
1359     1977         Ecuador          DFC                 26.0     -       0.6
1429     1977         Ecuador          Highways            17.5      -      7.5
1459     1977         Ecuador          Agriculture         15.5     -      10.3
S006     1978         Ecuador          Technical
Assistance        11.0      -      7.9
1644     1978         Ecuador          Rural Development 18.0       -      17.4
1731     1979         Ecuador          DFC                 40.0     -       8.5
1776     1980         Ecuador          Guayaquil Urban
Development       31.0      -     29.4
1879     1980         Ecuador          Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit      20.0      -     10.2
1882     1980         Ecuador          Highways            55.0      -     53.0
1991     1981         Ecuador          Rural Development 20.0       -      20.0
2044     1982         Ecuador          Rural Development 17.0       -      17.0
2045     1982         National Power  Power Trans-
Company          mission          100.0      -    100.0
2096     1982         Ecuador          DFC                 60.0     -      60.0
Total                                         598.5   37.6   348.3
of which has been repaid                     89.4    1.1
Total now outstanding                         509.1   36.5
Amount sold                        3.1
of which has been repaid         2.9          0.2      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                508.9   36.5
Total undisbursed                             348.3      -    348.3



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS  (as of March 31, 1982)
Type of    (amount in US$ million)
Fiscal Year                                      Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972      La Internacional, S.A.          Textiles    3.7       0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,      Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977      Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
S.A. (COFIEC)                   DFC         -        0.5        0.5
1976             Sociedad Agricola e Industrial
San Carlos, S.A.               Sugar Mill  5.0        -         5.0
1978             Cemento Nacional (CEM)          Cement     12.0       1.1       13.1
1980             Adamas Andina, S.A.             Pulp and
Paper      3.3       1.0        4.3
1981             Compania Minera Toachi, S.A.  Mining         1.0      0.3        1.3
1981            Palmoriente                     Palm Oil    9.0        1.8       10.8
1982            Ecualease                       Leasing      9.0       0.2        9.2
Total gross commitments                    43.0       5.1       48.1
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      6.5       0.4        6.9
Total commitments now held by IFC          36.5       4.0       41.2
Total undisbursed                          22.2       3.2       25.4



26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1982  1/
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation has accelerated.
Construction of the training centers has been completed. Bidding for equipment
purchase is now underway and contracts are expected to be signed before June.
The centers are expected to be functioning by the end of this calendar year.
The present Government has shown strong support for this project, naming a
dynamic director and providing needed additional funds. The Bank is considering
a possible extension of this project's Closing Date.
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project execution has accelerated during the past year and it appears
probable that the project can be completed by the amended Closing Date, June 30,
1982. The implementing institutions (Project Unit, Department of Seed
Certification, National Seeds Council and the Seeds Company, EMSemillas) are
staffed and in operation. Because of the earlier delays, EMSemillas is not yet
operating at full capacity and thus is unable to amortize its portion of the
loan. However, procurement of works and equipment is now underway for the major
facilities and the National Development Bank is providing interim financial
support. Staff training has also accelerated in recent months.
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
This project financed preparation of the Bank's first rural development
project in Tungurahua Province. More than half of the loan resources will
support hydrological studies for the Guayas River Basin, on the basis of which
topographic and prefeasibility studies can be done for agricultural development
in the region. After several years delay, aerial photography for the Guayas
study is nearing completion and related mapping work is underway.
1/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All civil works and technical assistance elements under the project
have been completed. The technical assistance programs have had positive
effects on highway planning, engineering and maintenance. Progress is being
made in land transport planning. Disbursements are nearly completed and the
Project Completion Report is in preparation.
Loan 1359-EC - Third Development Banking Project; US$26.0 million Loan of
February 18, 1977; Effective Date: August 9, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
This project is fully committed and 98 percent disbursed.
Loan 1429-EC - Fifth Highway Project; US$17.5 million Loan of September 22,
1977; Effective Date: January 10 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Construction of the Duran-Boliche road, which represents about 60
percent of total project costs, is about two years behind schedule and has
experienced cost increases because of design changes. Construction of the
Puerto Ila-Doblones road is also two years behind schedule because of soil and
weather difficulties. The lateral feeder roads to this road have been
contracted and should be completed during 1982. The study of regional secondary
and feeder roads in three provinces was completed satisfactorily and served as
the basis for the Sixth Highway Project. An extension of the Closing Date may
be required to permit completion of civil works.
Loan 1459-EC - Agricultural Credit I Project; US$15.5 million Loan of November
3, 1977; Effective Date: June 14, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
The loan continues a program of credit for livestock development
financed under three previous loans and credits, but has been broadened to cover
crop farms, small rural industries and local consulting services. In addition,
there are applied research and technical assistance components. Eleven banks
and financieras are participating in lending operations. Eighty percent of the
lending program has been committed for on-farm development, but disbursements
have moved more slowly because the investment plans extend over three years
generally. Also, local counterpart funds have not always been allocated on
time.
Loan S-006-EC - Second Technical Assistance Project; US$11.0 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: March 1, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
After very slow execution during the first three years, the project is
now moving much faster and about US$2.7 million have been disbursed in the last
six months. Good progress is also being made on a study of local consultants
which could have considerable relevance for the implementation of future
feasibility studies.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1644-EC - Tungurahua Rural Development Project; US$18 million Loan of May
11, 1979; Effective Date: September 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This integrated rural development project is progressing slowly after
about a year's delay in signing of subsidiary agreements between the Central
Bank and participating agencies.   The project unit has been working with
farmers and community groups for the past year, and infrastructure components
are entering the procurement stage.
Loan 1731-EC - Fourth Development Banking Project; US$40 million Loan of
December 17, 1979; Effective Date: September 23, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
This project, a follow-up to earlier successful loans, is disbursing
quickly as participating DFCs had a backlog of industrial subprojects under
review. It was almost fully committed within four months of the effectiveness
date and is now over three-quarters disbursed.
Loan 1776-EC - Guayaquil Urban Development Project; US$31 million Loan of May
9, 1980; Effective Date: October 31, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985
All the components of this integrated urban development project are now
underway. Provision of urban services by the Municipality of Guayaquil,
however, has been delayed by institutional problems and land tenure
complications in existing low-income areas. The National Housing Bank (BEV) has
nearly completed a small area of low-cost housing, and its program of home
improvement loans is off to a good start. After initial delays, the credit and
technical assistance to artisan-type enterprises is also working well.
Loan 1879-EC - Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project; US$20 million Loan of
October 31, 1980; Effective Date: April 1, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This is the Bank's first small scale enterprise credit project in
Ecuador. Although the project became effective only in April, 1981, the pace of
subloan disbursement and completion of institutional development aspects of the
loan are substantially ahead of schedule and a second project is in
preparation. About 30 private banks and financieras are involved in term
lending to small enterprises through this project.
Loan 1882-EC - Sixth Highway Project; US$55 million Loan of October 31, 1980;
Effective Date: May 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The Feeder Roads Project Unit was established in January 1981 and
agreements with the three participating provinces have been signed. Political
and administrative difficulties have, however, delayed initiation of most
components. These difficulties are being resolved and contracting of civil
works for the first year is now underway, and technical assistance for road
maintenance and transport planning has started.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1991-EC - Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project; US$20 million Loan
of November 24, 1981; Effective Date: June 1, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Effectiveness conditions are being met. The Project Unit is being
staffed and land titling efforts are underway.
Loan 2044-EC - Esmeraldas Rural Develoment Project; US$17 million Loan of
November 24, 1981; Effective Date: June 1, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
Effectiveness conditions are being met and the Project Unit is being
staffed.
Loan 2045-EC - Power Transmission Project; US$100 million Loan of December 4,
1981; Effective Date: June 4, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
Effectiveness conditions are being met. Terms of reference for
institutional studies are being revised and calls for bids are expected
shortly.
Loan 2096-EC -  Fifth Development Banking Project; US$60 million Loan of
Effective Date:                         ; Closing Date:  December
31, 1986
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on February 23, 1982
and is expected to be signed on April 22, 1982.



- 30 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
NATIONAL LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: 18 months
(b) Project prepared by: BEV/JNV with assistance from the Bank
(c) First presentation to the Bank: April 1980
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: July 1981
(e) Completion of Negotiations: March 1982
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 1982
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
(a) By June 30, 1983, JNV and BEV would furnish to the
Bank reports on their institutional development
covering (i) organizational changes; (ii) procedures
for project preparation and appraisal; and (iii)
systems of planning and coordination (para. 35).
(b) By December 31, 1982, BEV would acquire all the
land required for carrying out the project (para. 42).
(c) By December 31, 1982, JNV would furnish to the
Bank for comment a report on (i) its construction
program until completion of the project; and (ii) the
evaluation of the second Quito site for construction
of new houses, including social, financial and
technical criteria (para. 44).
(d) As a condition of loan effectiveness, a project
coordinator would be selected (para. 51).



- 31 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The Government would provide sufficient funds to
construct the community facilities included in the
project and would ensure (i) the adequate operation
and maintenance of schools and health posts; and (ii)
that sufficient funds were available for the operation
and maintenance of residential infrastructure and
community centers (para. 52).
(f) The Republic of Ecuador would onlend the loan's
proceeds to BEV, in sucres, on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, the Government would execute a
subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
with BEV. (para. 53).
(g) BEV would annually review its interest rates and
pricing system and, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank, make such adjustment as may be necessary to
achieve an average financial rate of return which is
not negative in real terms after taking account of,
inter alia, the changes in the national consumer price
index (para. 53).
(h) By December 31, 1982, BEV would furnish to the
bank a draft statement of financial policy and by
March 31, 1983, would adopt such statement of
financial policy.   By March 31, 1983, BEV would also
establish a financial management information system on
which the Bank would have an opportunity to comment.
Each year thereafter, BEV would furnish to the Bank,
for comment, information on BEV's financial
projections and on measures being taken to maintain
BEV's solvency (para. 57).
(i) BEV would not incur any further borrowing without
prior Bank approval, unless its projected cash flow
was more than 1.3 times the projected debt service
(para. 58).
(j) JNV would comply with affordability targets
established in the Loan Agreement and not later than
November 30 of each year, until the project is
completed, would furnish to the Bank a report on
income distribution, costs and plans for compliance
with these targets (para. 60).






IBRD 16369
-  8;Ci° 22 ; i t;;7K \ i b, g S / 6                                                                                  MARCH  1982
:   \orenz~~reno  _        <                     ,  
:    (7   '~4 aZ   /    X ;;<    t4t %<  0/   sfNATIONAL LOW-INCOME  
BahfadeCaraque2-S   / ~~~~~~~~)  (8|52;; X  w  : C J~~~~~       Cities   included in the   project
00,~~~~~40 -50
SANTO   ING~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        ntraioa  oudre
T~~~<h.otnep ha  beev s prpae  by the
@ECW'E'EkS79~~~~~~~~~HUSN PROEC
Wield  Bunks  staff e ios bng    '      °1'/  S) _X7   i s)ly  for  v ;  -,  f  5 5  0  e
the convnienaeifathe rCdrrs o
th  eotr to rndremn which itL#~ isg att/ched
The deaneom,natton usedandthes            /g                                      EILOMETER   C       Ic d     in t   Project
do nto,sly,on te patto theCIties2 in0                                                                      ud75i  the  pro5c
World Bank and its atki,ates. any ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Pcve rad
iodgment on the leiegPALlGrteltro of
or acceptance of sock beondanes~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prt



