OFFIAL       LOAN NUMBER 2135 EC
Loan Agreement
(National Low-Income Housing Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2135 EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          41--r- V  , 1982, between REPUBLIC
OF ECUADOR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower's Junta
Nacional de la Vivienda (hereinafter called JNV) and by Banco
Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda (hereinafter called BEV), with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to BEV the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and BEV;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions Applicable   to  Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective  meanings   therein  set  forth   and  the  following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and BEV of even date herewith, as the same may be amended


﻿from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BEV pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(c) "Sucre" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
five million and seven hundred thousand dollars ($35,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of: (i) all goods and civil works required for the Pro-
ject to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) civil
works required for Part C of the Project; and (iii) vehicles and
equipment required for the Project; shall be governed by the pro-
visions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and BEV of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Bor-
rower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to five hundred,
twenty seven thousand five hundred and eighty six dollars
($527,586). The fee shall be payable in such currency or curren-
cies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall


﻿-3-
not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective Date,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and pay to itself the amount required for the full pay-
ment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified for the
purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per atnum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. BEV is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause JNV and BEV to
carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, public utility, engineering and
banking practices and with the targets set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement; provided, however, that JNV shall be entrusted
with the planning and construction aspects of the Project and BEV
shall be entrusted with the financial and banking aspects of the
Project.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause BEV to perform in accordance with the provisions of the


﻿-4-
Project Agreement all the obligations of BEV therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources, neces-
sary or appropriate to enable BEV to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to BEV under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BEV, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall provide,
inter alia, that: (i) the subsidiary loan shall be denominated
and payable in Sucres; (ii) the foreign exchange risk will be
borne by the Borrower; (iii) the interest rate shall be equal to
the rate set forth in Section 2.07 of this Agreement; (iv) the
commitment charge referred to in Section 2.06 of this Agreement
will be borne by BEV; (v) the proceeds of the subsidiary loan
shall be used by BEV exclusively in the execution of the Project;
and (vi) the capital costs of the community facilities included
in the Project will be borne by the Borrower.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e) The Borrower shall cause BEV and JNV to enter into
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for purposes of defining in
detail the responsibilities (including financial responsibili-
ties), functions and administrative procedures of BEV and JNV for
the carrying out the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist JNV in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall cause JNV to employ consultants whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with
the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause JNV to take all
action required on the part of JNV to meet, in respect of Part A
of the Project, the affordability targets set forth in Schedule 5


﻿-5-
to this Agreement and to furnish to the Bank, by not later than
November 30 of each year, until the Project has been completed, a
report on current estimates of income distribution, costs and
planning for meeting such targets.
Section 3.04-. The Borrower shall cause JNV to furnish to the
Bank, for comment, by not later than June 30, 1983, a report on
the institutional development of JNV, which shall include
information and evaluation regarding: (i) the changes in the
organizational structure of JNV; (ii) the systems utilized by JNV
in the preparation and appraisal of projects; and (iii) the
systems utilized by JNV in its planning and coordination with
BEV.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause JNV to furnish to the
Bank, for comment, by not later than December 31, 1982, a report
on: (i) the construction program of JNV until the completion of
the Project; and (ii) the evaluation of a site for the construc-
tion of new houses under the Project, including the social,
financial and technical criteria utilized for such evaluation.
Section 3.06. Without any limitation or restriction upon its
obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall: (i) provide the funds necessary to operate and maintain
the  street lights, roads and     water, drainage    and  sewerage
infrastructure and the community centers included in the Project;
and (ii) through its Ministries of Health and of Education, at
all times adequately operate and maintain the health centers and
schools included in the Project.
Section 3.07. For the purpose of coordinating and adminis-
trating the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
JNV to employ a Project Coordinator and a Project Manager under
terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause JNV to furnish to
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause JNV to: (i) maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the


﻿-6-
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan for the Project, and to disclose their use
in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request concerning    the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the ioan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) The Borrower shall cause JNV to enable the Bank's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower and any
relevant records and documents related to the Project.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall cause JNV to prepare and furnish
to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of


﻿-7-
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange  stabilization  fund, or   similar  functions, for   the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause JNV and BEV to main-
tain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices, the operations, resources
and expenditures of JNV in respect of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿-8-
(a) BEV shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
of the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that BEV will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Decreto Supremo No. 559 of the Borrower, dated March
29, 1973, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying
out of the Project.
(d) Decreto Supremo No. 1486 of the Borrower, dated Decem-
ber 22, 1972, and Resolucion No. 75-354 of the Superintendencia
de Bancos of the. Borrower, dated April 22, 1975, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of BEV to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and BEV.
(b) Any event specified in parLoraphs (c) and (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within  the  meaning   of  Section  12.01   (c)  of  the   General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and BEV; and


﻿-9-
(b) the Project Coordinator referred to in Section 3.07 of
this Agreement has been selected.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BEV, and is legally binding upon BEV in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has baen duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and BEV and is legally binding
upon the Borru4er and BEV in accordance with its term;
Section 6.03. The date  7ta6s         , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Ministro de Finanzas y Crddito Publico is design-
ated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Sec-
tion 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito P6blico
Quito, Ecuador
.Cable address:                    Telex:
MINFINANZAS                      2358-MINFIN-ED
Quito, Ecuador


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RXCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By                       F
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                  % of
(Expressed in               Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)            to be Financed
(1) Civil works,           13,960,000             42%
including design
and supervision
and building
materials under
Parts A and B
of the Project
(2) Sub-loans under         5,750,000             42% of amounts
Part D of the                                disbursed by
/Project;                                      BEV
(3) Services and            1,000,000             100% of foreign
equipment under                              expenditures
under Part E of                              and 42% of
the Project                                  local expendi-
tures
(4) Fee                       527,586             Amount due
(5) Unallocated            14,462,414
TOTAL       35,700,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The  disbursement   percentages  have   been  calculated   in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,300,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (3) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after August 1, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 13 -
6.   If the Bank    shall have   reasonably  determi     that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsisLent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to strengthen the institu-
tional, technical and financial capabilities of BEV and JNV and
to support the Borrower's objectives of providing low-cost hous-
ing in Ecuador. The Project consists of the following parts:
PART A:   HOUSING
Construction of about 8,200 low-income units and related
basic infrastructure in Quito and nine smaller cities.
PART B:   URBAN UPGRADING
Regularization of land titles and provision of basic
infrastructure in existing low-income urban settlements.
PART C:   COMMUNITY FACILITIES
Construction and equipping of about 14 community centers,
about 10 schools, about 9 day-care centers, and about 7 health
centers, in Quito and nine smaller cities.
PART D:   CREDIT
Making Sub-loans for house construction or improvement to
about 7,000 families in the municipalities included in Part A of
the Project.
PART E:   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Strengthening of BEV's and JNV's capabilities in such areas
as: (i) preparation and execution of projects; (ii) improvement
of  their  low-cost   housing  technology; and   (iii) financial
management.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1986
through   December 15, 1998                 1,375,000
On   June 15, 1999                               1,325,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years                               3.00%
before maturity
More than three years but                               6.10%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                                 7.50%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                              10.25%
not more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                                 11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Ecuador may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured    in
Ecuador if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Ecuador equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 19 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
$1,000,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding under procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) contracts for the purchase of goods, other than
computer and associated software, may be procured in accordance
with local procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) civil work., for Part A of the Project (when cooperative
labor is involved) and for Part B of the Project may be executed
by use of force account, if the Bank shall so agree.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for each type
of civil work; (ii) all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more; and (iii) all con-
tracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $750,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award


﻿- 20 -
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Affordability Targets
I.   Quito
(A) About forty per cent (40%) of the units to be con-
structed in Quito, for the purposes of Part A of the Project,
will have to be affordable to about sixty five per cent (65%) of
families living in that city; and
(B) the remaining units to be constructed in Quito, for the
purposes of Part A of the Project, will have to be affordable to
about fifty five per cent (55%) of families living in that city.
II. Cities included in the Project other than Quito
(A) About sixty per cent (60%) of the units to be con-
structed in cities included in the Project other than Quito, for
the purposes of Part A of the Project, will have to be affordable
to about eighty per cent (80%) of families living in those
cities;
(B) About twenty five per cent (25%) of the units to be
constructed in cities included in the Project other than Quito,
for the purposes of Part A of the Project, will have to be
affordable to about fifty per cent (50%) of families living in
those cities; and
(C) the remaining units to be constructed in cities
included in the Project other than Quito, for the purposes of
Part A of the Project, will have to be affordable to about forty
per cent (40%) of families living in those cities.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   9      day of       , 198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


