Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1805 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Telecommunication Project)
between
REPUBLIC DE BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 9, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1805 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 9, 1987, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Borrowern through its 
Ministry of Transport, Post and Telecommunications and Part A of the Project will be 
carried out by Office National des Telecommunications (ONATEL) with the Borrower's 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ONATEL 
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(C)
the Borrower has obtained from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique 
(CCCE) three loans (the CCCE Loans) in an aggregate amount of FF 24,500,000 to assist 
in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in three loan 
agreements (the CCCE Loan Agreements) entered  into between the Borrower and CCCE on 
August 14, 1984, for the first loan and on November 14, 1986, for the two other loans;
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation 
Economique (CCCE) a loan (the CCCE Additional Loan) in an approximate amount of 
$6,900,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions to be set 
forth in a loan agreement (the Additional CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CCCE;
(E)
the Borrower has contracted from the Kingdom of the Netherlands a loan 
(the Dutch Loan) in an amount of DFl 9,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on 
Page  2
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Dutch Loan Agreement), entered 
into between the Borrower and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on August 18, 1985; and
(F)
the Borrower has contracted from the commercial bank, Amsterdam, a loan 
(the Commercial Loan) in an amount of DFl 9,000,000 to assist in financing the Project 
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Commercial Loan Agreement), 
entered into between the Borrower and BNP Amsterdam on June 15, 1985; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and ONATEL;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
ONATEL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and ONATEL pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)
"MTPT" means Ministere des Transports, des Postes et Telecommunications, 
the Borrower's Ministry of Transport, Post and Telecommunications;
(d)
"DP" means Departement des Postes, the Postal Department within MTPT;
 
(e)
"ONATEL" means the Office National des Telecommunications, established by 
Decree No. 100/146 of November 8, 1979, of the Borrower, as such Decree may be amended 
from time to time;
(f)
"ONATEL's Investment Program" means ONATEL's telecommunications 
investment program for the period 1987-1991 as summarized in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement;
(g)
"ETB" means Ecole Nationale des Telecommunications du Burundi, the 
Borrower's Telecommunications school established under Decree No. 100/145, dated 
November 8, 1979, and operating under the supervisory authority of MTPT;
(h)
"EPB" means Ecole des Postes du Burundi, the Borrower's Postal School, 
established under Decree No. 100/192, dated September 23, 1976, as amended by Decree 
100/149 dated November 8, 1979, and operating under the supervisory authority of MTPT;
(i)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year running from January 1 to 
December 31;
(j)
"FB" means Francs Burundais, the Borrower's currency;  
(k)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(l)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
Page  3
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
August 19, 1983, and November 3, 1983, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars two special accounts in the name of ONATEL (Special Account A) and in the name 
of MTPT (Special Account B), in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, Special Accounts A and B shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 and 5 to this Agreement, 
respectively. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The withdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of l%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the respective 
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
shall be canceled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 
1997, and ending May 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on May 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of l%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent 
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
ONATEL to carry out Part A of the Project and shall carry out through its MTPT Parts B 
and C of the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ONATEL to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of ONATEL 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable ONATEL to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend to ONATEL an amount not exceeding $3,500,000 
equivalent from the proceeds of the Credit under a subsidiary loan agreement 
acceptable to the Association which shall provide, inter alia, for a term of seventeen 
(17) years, including four (4) years of grace at an interest rate of 7.76%* per annum.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants and experts services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause ONATEL to carry out pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance, respectively) in 
respect of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.04. For purposes of financing the reasonable costs of goods and 
services required to carry out the Project not financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than January 31, 1988, open and thereafter 
maintain in FB an account (the counterpart  funds account) in its Central Bank in the 
name of MTPT; (b) not later than January 31, 1988, deposit into said account an 
initial deposit equivalent to $60,000; (c) thereafter deposit in said account amounts 
equal, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, to the aforementioned amount on 
January 31 each year; (d) give priority in the use of such funds for the financing of 
the local currency cost of: (i) the construction of the postal sorting center under 
Part B.1 of the Project; and (ii) training and equipment for ETB and EPB under Parts 
A.6, A.7, and B.4 of the Project; and (e) furnish to the Association for its review 
and comments quarterly reports on the use of said counterparts funds in such detail as 
the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than September 30, 1987, in 
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, carry out a study 
on the structure, financing and management of its postal sector; (b) based on the 
recommendations of such study, not later than  March 31, 1988, furnish to the 
Association for review and comments a plan of actions to be undertaken in such sector 
and a proposed timetable; and (c) based on such review, carry out such plan in 
accordance with its timetable.
Section 3.06. For purposes of carrying out Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall: (a) not later than July 1, 1988, furnish to the Association a training 
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; (b) not later than March 31 in each Fiscal Year, starting after its Fiscal 
Year ending December 31, 1988, review with the Association the progress achieved by 
the Borrower during the past Fiscal Year in carrying out such plan; and (c) on the 
Page  5
basis of such review take all necessary measures to improve the Borrower's performance 
in the carrying out of such plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall pay and cause its ministries, departments and 
agencies to promptly pay all dues and charges owed to ONATEL for telecommunications 
services rendered.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out Part B of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit 
for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause DP to:
(a)
maintain records, accounts and financial statements adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition;
(b)
have its records and accounts for each Fiscal Year audited,in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
Page  6
(c)
furnish to the Association as soon as available but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of such year, draft copies of its financial statements 
for such year, and within six months after the end of each such years (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(d)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part to enable 
ONATEL to take the measures referred to in Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ONATEL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that ONATEL will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ONATEL or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any of 
the CCCE 
Loans, the CCCE Additional Loan, the Dutch Loan or 
the Commercial Loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of any of the CCCE 
Loan Agreements, or the CCCE Additional Loan 
Agreement, or the 
Dutch Loan Agreement, or the Commercial Loan 
Agreement.
 
(B)
any of the CCCE Loan, or the Additional CCCE Loan, or the 
Dutch Loan, 
or the Commercial Loan shall have become due and 
payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (d) (i) (A) and (d) (i) (B) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of 
that section; and
Page  7
(c)
the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and ONATEL;
(b)
that all the conditions prior to the effectiveness of all the CCCE Loans 
and the CCCE Additional Loan except for the effectiveness of this Agreement shall have 
been fulfilled;
(c)
that a Project coordinator to be placed in DP, with qualification 
satisfactory to the Association has been appointed; and
(d)
that the consultants referred to in Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement have been employed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by ONATEL 
and is legally binding upon ONATEL in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and ONATEL and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ONATEL in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 
and 4.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development 
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the 
date, twenty one years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purpose of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
B.P. 1830
Bujumbura
Republique du Burundi
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFIN
5135 MINIFINBDI
Page  8
Bujumbura
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By / s/ Edouard Kadigiri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated              % of
                               (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                       SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Materials and                 1,500,000            100% of foreign
    equipment under                                    expenditures
    Parts A.2 and A.8
    of the Project.
(2) Works under                     240,000            80%
    Part B.1
    of the Project
(3) Training equipment:                                100% of foreign
                                                       expenditures or
                                                       65% of local if
                                                       procured locally
    (a) under Part                  240,000
Page  9
        A.7 of the
        Project
    (b) under Part B.4               80,000
        of the Project
(4) Vehicles, maintenance                              100% of foreign
    materials and tools:                               expenditures or
                                                       65% of local
                                                       expenditures
                                                       if provided locally
    (a) under Part A.4              290,000
        of the Project
    (b) under Part B.5              180,000
        of the Project
(5) Training and                    790,000            100%
    Consultants'
    Services under Parts
    A.6 and A.9 of the
    Project
(6) Training and                     80,000            100%
    Consultants'
    Services Under
    Part B.2 of the Project
(7) Fellowships                                        100% of foreign
                                                       expenditures
    (a) under Part A.5               60,000
        of the Project
    (b) under Part B.3               30,000
        of the project
(8) Refunding of                    220,000            Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                   suant to Section
    tion Advance                                       2.02 (c) of this
                                                       Agreement
(9) Unallocated                      90,000
        TOTAL                     3,800,000
2.
If the amount allocated to Category (8) above is in excess of the amount due, 
the excess will be reallocated to Category (9).
3.
For the purposes of this schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower of for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
4.
Not withstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in strengthening the 
Page  10
quality of service, performance, financial management and resource mobilization of the 
Borrower's postal and telecommunications sectors.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Telecommunications Services
 
1.
Replacement and expansion of switching facilities in Bujumbura by a 13,800 line 
digital exchange and expansion of local cable network and testing facilities, 
including the provision of terminal equipment.
2.
Installation of rural VHF multi access radio links and provision of 70 public 
call offices in rural areas of the Borrower's territory.
3.
Extension of the new international telephone transit exchange and of the 
satellite earth station.
4.
Provision of about 15 vehicles, maintenance materials and tools.
 
5.
Provision of 15 fellowships to ONATEL high level staff.
 
6.
Provision of training at ETB to improve curricular activities.
 
7.
Provision of training equipment to ETB.
 
8.
Provision and installation of telex switching equipment for about 300 additional 
telex lines and teleprinters.
9.
Provision of about 245 man months of technical assistance to:
 
(i)
strengthen ONATEL's accounting, billing and recovering systems;
 
(ii)
strengthen ONATEL's management organization and establish a 
management information 
system;
 
(iii)
strengthen ONATEL's investment planning and maintenance; and
 
(iv)
strengthen ONATEL's operational capacity by the provision of the 
services of 
an engineering technical advisor.
 
Part B:
Postal Services
 
1.
Construction of a parcel sorting center in Bujumbura and of a vehicle shed.
 
2.
Provision of about 24 man months of technical assistance to:
 
(i)
strengthen and review DP's accounting system and procedures and 
assist in the 
preparation of financial statements and financial 
projections; and
(ii)
carry out a study on the organization, financing and management of 
the 
Borrower's postal sector.
 
3.
Provision of 8 fellowships for DP's senior staff.
 
4.
Provision of training equipment to EPB.
 
5.
Provision of about 10 vehicles for mail transport and postal equipment, 
including tools and maintenance equipment.
*  *  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  11
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable contracts for telecommunications equipment and works 
under Part A of the Project shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
3.
Invitations to bid on rural VHF components under Part A (2) of the Project shall 
be issued not later than March 31, 1988.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Training equipment under Parts A.7 and B.4 of the Project, postal equipment, 
tools and maintenance equipment under Parts A.4 and B.5 of the Project may be procured 
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis 
of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 
2.56 thereof).
2.
Civil works under Part B.1 of the Project and vehicles under Parts A.4 and B.5 
of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
3.
Extension of telex switching equipment under Part A.8 of the Project may be 
procured through direct contracting at a reasonable price account being taken of 
relevant factors such as time of delivery.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of any of 
the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of 
the first payment out of any of the Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of any of the Special 
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of 
the contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 and 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section
4.02 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  12
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist ONATEL in carrying out Parts A.6 and 9 of the Project and the 
Borrower in carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, ONATEL shall employ 
telecommunications management and financial consultants and the Borrower shall employ 
postal, management, and financial consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consultants and experts shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the Guidelines for the Use of  
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account A - ONATEL
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), 3 (a), (4) (a), (5) 
and (7) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in Special Account A pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of Special Account 
A shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that Special 
Account A has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish Special Account A may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in Special Account A such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of Special Account A at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the basis 
of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into Special Account A such amounts as shall be required to replenish Special Account 
A with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of Special Account A for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the 
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account A for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into Special Account A shall be made by the Association when either of 
the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
Page  13
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories for Part A of the Project, minus the 
amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions 
with respect to Part A of the Project, shall be equal 
to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Part A of 
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in Special Account A as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of Special Account A (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into Special Account A (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into Special Account A shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in Special Account A will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such  outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit 
Account.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account B - MTPT
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2), (3) (b), (4) (b), 
(6) and (7) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part B of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $80,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in Special Account B pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of Special Account 
B shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that Special 
Account B has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish Special Account B may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in Special Account B such amount or  Amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
Page  14
of Special Account B at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the basis 
of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into Special Account B such amounts as shall be required to replenish Special Account 
B with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of Special Account B for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and  in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the 
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account B for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into Special Account B shall be made by the Association when either of 
the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories for Part B of the Project, minus the 
amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions 
with respect to Part B of the Project, shall be equal 
to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for Part B of 
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in Special Account B as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of Special Account B (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into Special Account B (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into Special Account B shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in Special Account B will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such  outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit 
Account.
SCHEDULE 6
ONATEL Telecommunications Investment Program
The ONATEL Telecommunications Investment Program covers the period 1987-1991. 
The Program is designed to be in harmony with the telecommunications component of the 
National Development Plan of the Borrower. The Program was designed to meet the 
highest priority needs for improvement and expansion of the telecommunications 
services of the Borrower within the available resources and the physical and 
managerial capability of ONATEL.
The Program includes the following:
Page  15
(a)
ongoing works estimated to cost $1,300,000 and comprising the completion 
of the microwave links and rural telephone extensions originally financed under the 
Development Credit Agreement No. 1058-BU (Telecommunications Project), dated August 7, 
1980, between the Borrower and
the Association;
(b)
Part A of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
 
(c)
Preliminary works needed for expansion of facilities from 1986 onwards 
estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent.
The Program is estimated to cost FB 3,129,000,000.
