CREDIT NUMBER 1805 BU
Project Agreement
(Second Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Dated      0 cko\6ar 3               1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1805 BU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     CC 0- 6                 , 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONATEL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Republic of Burundi (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make avail-
able to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 3,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ONATEL
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ONATEL, a part of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to ONATEL on the terms and conditions set forth
in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS  ONATEL, in    consideration  of  the  Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (ap so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ONATEL declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A


﻿- 2 -
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cavse to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants and
experts services required for Part A of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by
the provisions of Section I, Part A, Part B paragraph 2, Part C
and Section II of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. ONATEL shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance, res-
pectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the
Project.
Section 2.04. ONATEL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, ONATEL shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any pro-
vision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ONATEL shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) ONATEL shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ONATEL of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.06. For purposes of carrying out Parts A.5 and A.6
of the Project, ONATEL shall, not later than January 1, 1988,
furnish to the Association: (a) a training plan of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (b) not later than March 31 in each Fiscal Year,


﻿-3-
starting with its Fiscal Year ending December 31, 1988, review
with the Association the progress achieved by ONATEL in carrying
out such plan; and (c) on the basis of such review take all
necessary measures to improve ONATEL's performance in the carry-
ing out of such plan.
Section 2.07. For purposes of carrying out Part A.9 of the
Project, ONATEL shall not later than January 1, 1988, furnish
to the Association: (a) a work plan of such scope and in such
detail as agreed with the Association; (b) not later than
March 31 in each Fiscal Year starting with its Fiscal Year end-
ing December 31, 1988, review with the Association the progress
achieved in carrying out such work plan; and (c) on the basis
of such review take all neoessary measures to improve ONATEL's
performance in the carrying out of such work plan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ONATEL
Section 3.01. ONATEL shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, finan-
cial, and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ONATEL shall at all times operate and main-
tain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. ONATEL shall take out and maintain with res-
ponsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section q.04. ONATEL shall: (i) not later than October 1,
for each Fiscal Year after the Fiscal Year ending December 31,
1987, furnish to the Association a list of targets for ONATEL's
performance indicators except for maintenance indicators and call
completion rates to be achieved by ONATEL during the following
Fiscal Year; (ii) not later than May 1, of each Fiscal Year,
starting after the Fiscal Year ending December 31, 1988, review
with the Association ONATEL's performance against such targets


﻿during the past Fiscal Year; and (iii) on the basis of such
review take all necessary measures to improve such performance.
Section 3.05. ONATEL shall: (i) not later than December 31,
1987, and October 1, for any Fiscal Year thereafter furnish to
the Association a list of maintenance indicators and busy hour
call completion rates and targets to be achieved by ONATEL during
the following Fiscal Year; (ii) not later than October 1 of each
Fiscal Year, starting with the Fiscal Year ending December 31,
1988, review with the Association ONATEL's performance against
such targets during the past Fiscal Year; and (iii) on the basis
of such review take all necessary measures to improve such per-
formance.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ONATEL shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) ONATEL shall:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to thv Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, draft copies of its
financial statements for such year; and within six
monVhs after the end of each such year: (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited; and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the


﻿-5-
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. ONATEL shall: (a) not later than October 1,
1987, furnish to the Association for review and comments a
proposed plan and timetable for the reduction of the level of
ONATEL's accounts receivable from subscribers other than the
Borrower, its ministries and agencies, to a level acceptable to
the Association; and (b) thereafter on the basis of such review
start to implement such plan in accordance with its timetable.
Section 4.03. ONATEL shall: (i) not later than May 1, in
each Fiscal Year, starting May 1, 1988, furnish to the Associa-
tion for review and comments a proposed accounts receivable aging
schedule for the previous year. Such proposed schedule shall
indicate which receivables are irrecoverable; and (ii) on the
basis of said review introduce the changes necessary in said
schedule before its finalization.
Section 4.04. ONATEL shall not introduce any changes to its
Investment Program, that would increase the cost of such Invest-
ment Program by more than 5% in any one year unless a financing
plan therefor has been agreed between the Association and ONATEL.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:
(a) ONATEL shall from time to time take all such measures
(including without limitation, adjustments of the structure or
levels of its tariffs and charges for its services) as shall be
required to produce funds from internal sources equivalent to (A)
the amount needed to cover ONATEL's financial requirements in FB
for the next Fiscal Year for the carrying out of ONATEL's Invest-
ment Program; or (B) not less than 25% for each of its Fiscal
Years after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1988, of the
a-. al average of ONATEL's total capital expenditures accountable
t telecommunications operations and incurred, or on the basis of
realistic forecasts expected to be incurred, during each such
year, whichever shall be greater.
(b) Before December 31, in each of its Fiscal Years, ONATEL
shall on the basis of realistic forecasts satisfactory to the
Association review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the
requirements set forth in the preceding paragraph (a) for the
next following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Association
a copy of such review upon its completion.


﻿-6-
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "funds from internal sources" means gross revenues
from all sources related to ONATEL's telecommuni-
cations operations, cash consumer contributions
in aid of construction, net non-operating income
and any reduction in non-cash working capital less
all expenses incurred on account of such opera-
tions, including expenses of administration and
adequate maintenance (excluding depreciation and
other   non-cash   operating  charges),   interest
and other charges on debt (excluding interest
financed under a loan contract), repayment of
loans (including sinking fund payments, if any),
taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, if any, cash
dividends and other cash distribution of surplus,
increase in net working capital other than cash,
and any other cash outflows other than capital
expenditures related to telecommunications opera-
tions; and
(ii) the term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed or capital
assets, including interest charged    :o construc-
tion.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:
(a)  ONATEL shall from time to time take all such measures
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or
levels of tariffs charged for its services) as shall be required
to produce an annual return of not less than 12% for each of its
Fiscal Years after its Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1987,
of the average current net value of the ONATEL fixed assets in
services.
(b) Before December 31 in each of its Fiscal Years, ONATEL
shall, on the basis of realistic forecasts satisfactory to the
Association review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above for the next
following Fiscal Year, and shall furnish to the Association a
copy of such review upon its completion.


﻿-7-
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
ONATEL's net operating income for the Fiscal Year
in question by one-half of the sum of the current
net value of ONATEL's fixed assets in service at
the beginning and at the end of that Fiscal Year.
(ii) The term "net operating income" means gross reve-
nues from all sources related to ONATEL's tele-
communications operations less all expenditures
incurred on account of such operations, including
expenses of administration, adequate maintenance
and taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, if any,
and provision for depreciation. Interest and other
charges on debt shall not be deducted from gross
revenues.
(iii) The term "current net value of ONATEL's fixed
assets in service" means the gross value of
ONATEL's fixed assets in service, less the amount
of accumulated depreciation, both as valued from
time to time in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate methods of valuation or
revaluation acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Associ tion and of ONATEL thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date twenty-one years after the date of this
Agreement.


﻿-8-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ONATEL of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
!or ONATEL:
Office National des T616communications
B.P. 60
Buj umbura
R6publique du Burundi


﻿9
Cable address:                    Telex:
ONATEL                            5081 BDI
Bujumbura
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ONATEL may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons, jointly or
separately as ONATEL shall designate in writing, and ONATEL shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                15 K     'a~ LYV A,
A c*A Regional Vice President
Africa
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS
By/l 6Authorizd Repesntaiv
Authoriz d Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


