Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6790-UR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1988
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department 4
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
rhis document has a restdcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Uruguayan New Peso (N$)
US$1 = N$279 (December 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IDB          -  Inter American Development Bank
EXIMBANK     -  United States Export Import Bank
MOP          -  Ministry of Transport and Public Works
OSE          -  Administracion de las Obras Sanitarias del Estado
PAHO         -  Pan American Health Organization
PCU          -  Project Coordinating Unit
SANEPAR      -  Companhia de Saneamento de Parana (BRAZIL)



I    ~FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
iAUE  SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMARY ......        ..............................    iii - v
I.    TIM SECTOR  .o.oo*4**@qoo.o..o.e**eooooo.o*e  oo@e ooeo*@       1
Population, Public Health and Service Levels.........         1
Sector Organizationo................... ...........oo **o     1
Sector Performance, Policies aiA Constraintso.... o..0        2
Sector Financing and Investments ....................         2
Bank Involvement In the Sectoro*       oeo............ooo..   3
II.   TRR PROJECT  oo.o.o.o..o........o.....oo.o...o.o......o         3
Project Origin .... 0, . ...0.00......00...00  0....0         3
Montevideo Water Demand and Supplyo..................         3
Project Objectives ..... ... .                                4
Project Description  o       oooo...............................  5
Project Cost ..........o.......   o o............o...........  6
Project Financing ..*.0....00.0....0.00.....0.0..0...         7
The Borrower and the Executing Agency.e..............         7
Project Implementation ........o*....*o............*.         9
Status of Project Preparation........................        10
Procurement ..o.........o...o o...................o........  11
Disbursements .........o .oo.............................    12
Past Financial Performance       ..........................  13
Future Financial Performance  ........................       14
Operational Performance and Monitoring ....o...00000.        14
Staff Efficiencyoo.......... i.. en cy.... 00....0.00....    15
Reporting and Auditing .oo..00......................         15
Project Justification, Benefits and Affordability....        16
Social Impact .oeo.o..ooooo. .o.o....o.o..o.o.oooo. .        16
Economic Analysisoool             y    s     is...............0. .........  16
Operational Impact .0.00.0...00.0...0..0...00000...0         17
Environmental Impact ooo.oo...oo...o.o.o....o.oo.o..o        17
Risks and Safeguards ....oo.0..0...0.00..0 .0.....0          18
III.  AGRER9DlUTS TO Be REACHED AND      P      l      0*0N00N       18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Uruguay from February 23 to March 9, 1987.   The mission was composed of
Messrs. Bernardo Gomez, Financial Analyst, Emanuel Idelovitch, Engineer,
Roberto Cucullu, Lawyer; and Pablo Carraro and Carlos Pasten, Consultants.
Mmes. Leonor Santelices and Lilia Garcia assisted in the production of this
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



Page No.
LIST OF ANNEXS
1.   OSE Investment Plan 1988-89 ......    .......................    20
2.   Montevideo Water Demand and Supply .......................     23
3.   Project Description .............. . ........ ............ ....   25
4.   Montevideo Water Supply System - Techn_1.al Background....    28
5.   Project Cost ....................... ................. ....    41
6.   OSE - Organization Chart...............................    42
7.   OSE - Institutional Overview .............................     43
8.  Tariff Structure. ........ . . . . . . . . . . .e.......***. . . . . . . . ....   46
9.   Project Organization Chart...............................    47
10.   Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Cooperation ....   48
11.   Medium-Size Cities Tentatively Included in the Project..       52
12.   Project Implementation Schedule          .........................   53
13.   Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts        ................    54
14.   Limits on Types of Procurement          ..........................    55
15.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds .............................    56
16.   Loan Disbursement Schedule          .............................   57
17.   OSE's Historic Financial Data ............................     59
18.   OSE's Financial Projections..............................    62
19.   Minimum Performance Targets          .............................    66
20.   Economic Analysis ..       ........................ ..........    67
21.   List of Selected Documents in Project File        ..............   72
NAP
Montevideo Water Supply System - General Layout
(IBRD No. 20420)



- iii -
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republica Oriental del Uruguay.
Executing
Agency:         Administracion de las Obras Sanitarias del Estado (OSE).
Amount:         US$22.3 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayment in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable rate. Proceeds of the Loan would be
passed on by the Republic of Uruguay to CSE, as a loan, on the
same terms and conditions as of those of the Loan.
Project
Description:   The  project  would  help  to modernize and  restructure OSE,
aiming   at,  reducing   operating   costs   and   increasing
productivity, thus enabling the entity to operate without
subsidies. The project would also emphasize the provision of
adequate services to low-income groups at affordable prices.
The project includes the following components:
(a) Institutional Development of OSE consisting of: (i) tech-
nical cooperation and training through a corporate
twinning arrangement with a highly effective and efficient
water utility.   The technical cooperation and training
would emphasize increased labor productivity and improved
operations and customer relations; and (ii) assistance
for planning and coordinating project execution;
(b) Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems, consisting of: (i)
upgrading the Aguas Corrientes Treatment Plant to increase
its production capacity by about 20% and to improve water
quality; (ii) restoring the carrying capacity of two
transmission mains from the Aguas Corrientes Treatment
Plant to the Montevideo reservoirs; (iii) repairing and
replacing deteriorated equipment and installations in the
production and distribution systems of Montevideo and of
several medium-size cities; and (iv) purchasing and
installing equipment for the operation, control and main-
tenance of the water systems, and support equipment,
including water meters, for improving OSE's operations;
(c) Expansion of Montevideo Distribution System, consisting
of: constructing water distribution networks (about 40
km), house connections (about 5,000) and standpipes; and



- iv -
(d) Preparation of OSE's Water Sn  1  and Sanitation Plan.
Social         The project will directly benefit about 175,000 people in
LALact:        Montevideo and 58,000 in other cities.
Risks and
SdegfuaRs:    The main risk is a possible delay caused by opposition to some
of the politically difficult proposed changes, especially
staff reductions and required changes in OSE's regulations for
personnel management. However, the probability of success is
reasonable given the Government's and OSE's commitment to the
project goals, and the Government's success in implementing
cost-reduction programs  in other enterprises.   The fiscal
constraints faced by the Government would also encourage the
authorities to pursue policies which will eliminate transfers
to the sector, and to help OSE to become financially
self-sufficient.    Staff  resistance  to  changes  in working
practices presents another risk.  The project design reduces
this risk by iu.roducing a twinning arrangement with frequent
contacts between the staff of the mentor institution and their
OSE counterparts.   Also,  OS's strategy for institutional
development which includes close consultation with the union,
and  a  gradualistic  approach  to  reform,  increases  the
probability of success.
Etimated Project Costs
Local       Foreign        Total
------(US$ million)
A - Institutional Development          0.6            1.2          1.8
B - Rehabilitation of Water Supply
Systems including 0 & M
Equipment                        6.6          16.0          22.6
C - Expansion of Montevideo
Distribution System              0.5           0.3           0.8
D - OS's Water and Sanitation
Plan                             0.4           0.8           1.2
Base Cost (December 1987 prices)       8.1           18.3         26.4
Physic-l Contingencies (10%)           0.8            1.8          2.6
Price Contingencies                    0.5            1.2          1.7
Total Project Cost               9.4          21.3          30.7
Value Added Tax                        1.5            -            1.5
Interest on Bank Loan                   --            1.0          1.0
Total Financing Required        10.9          22.3          33.2
...mi           mm.         minmi



- v 
cinaniPl:
Local       Foreign        Total
-( --(US}  million)       -
OSE                                    10.9             -           10.9
Bank                                    -             22.3          22.3
Total                          10.9          22.-3         33.2
Estimated Bank Disbursements:
Dank Fiscal Year
88    89    90    91    92    93    94    95    96
~~ - - -(sus$ millllon)--_ 
Annual                  2.0   1.4   3.3   5.1   3.8   2.8   2.1   1.3   0.5
fuinulatlve              2.0   3.4   6.7  11.8  15.6  18.4  20.5  21.8  22.3
Rate of Return:    About 25X.



I. THE SECTOR
Population, Public Health and Service Levels
1.01      Uruguay is divided into 19 departments, including Montevideo, the
capital. The 1975 census counted a total population of 2.8 million. Birth
rates were low and on a dow.ntrend; the crude birth rate was 20.9 per 1,000
in 1975 and 17.7 in 1984.  The estimated population growth rate was 0.5%
between 1975 and 1986.   The estimated mid-1986 total population was 3.0
million, of which 2.5 million (85%) was urban. Over 50% of the urban popu-
lation is concentrated in Montevidp:.
1.02       Life expectancy in 1983 was 73 years.  Water related diseases
such as enteritis and other diarrheal diseases still figure among the five
main causes of mortality.  Infant mortality in 1984 was 27 per 1,000 live
births, compared to 21 in Chile, 30 in Argentina, and 55 in the southetn
part of Brazil.
1.03       In 1986, 83% of the urban and 27% of the rural population had
domestic water connections, and 63% of urban and 20% of rural population
was served by public sewerage. The rest of the population has access to
acceptable alternative systems (standpipes, private wells, septic tanks and
latrines). Service quality is satisfactory in most of the country. Infra-
structure is antiquated, however, and in need of modernization, reflecting
insufficient budgets over many years for system maintenance, rehabilitation
and replacement.  Water losses and unbilled water use are high and still
growing (from a national average of 20% of production in 1952 to 40% in
1987: 35% in Montevideo and 40 - 50% in medium- and small-size cities).
Sector OrgaLniation
1.04       All urban and rural water supply and sewar systems are planned,
constructed and operated by Administracion de las Obras Sanitarias del
Estado (OSE), with the exception of Montevideo sewerage which is the
responsibility of the Municipality.   OSE was created by Law 11907 of 1952
and initiated operations by taking over the water system in Montevideo and
the water supply and sewer systems outside Montevideo, which were the
responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MOP). OSE, a
decentralized service under the MOP, is headquartered in Montevideo, where
about one half of its 6,900 employees work.  OSE has 20 regional offices
which operate its 240 systems (para 2.09).
1.05        The separate management of the water and sewerage services in
Montevideo has deep historical roots.    The water and sewer systems were
established in the second half of the 19th century by foreign-owned private
companies.  The sewerage services were transferred to the Municipality in
1912 and the water services to the Government in 1949, and then to OSE upon
its creation in  1952.   The two services  are  coordinated  through  two
committees, one at the policy-making level and another at the technical
level.



-2-
Sector Ferfornance, Policies and Constraints
1.06       Between the 1870s and the 1950s the water supply and sewerage
sector in Uruguay was among the most developed in Latin Atierica. Service
coverage and quality were high.   Pricing policies were adequate to cover
operations and maintenance expenditures, to finance system replacement and
expansion, and to provide a satisfactory return on capital to private
investors. This comfortable position was attained during periods of accel-
erated economic growth. The economic policies of the last 30 years, how-
ever, hampered further sector development.  Sector institutions were used
as instruments of income distribution and fiscal policy at the expense of
economic efficiency: (i) tariffs were held below the cost of services in
the presumed interest of slowing inflation and benefittivig lnw-income popu-
lation; (ii) overemployment, together with the payment of non-competitive
salaries to qualified personnel, was encouraged as a means of redistribut-
ing income to and among public employees; and (iii) operation, maintenance
and investment budgets were tailored to sector financial constraints and
the Government's fiscal situation, rather than to the requirements of
orderly sector development (para. 2.10). The present Government and OSE's
Board and Management, however, are fully aware of the need to change these
policies and practices and are determined to implement new ones, including:
(a) modernizing and restructuring sector institutions, with emphasis
on increasing staff and technological efficiency;
(b) expanding sector infrastructure to provide services to low-income
population, and to meet the expanding requirements of the econ-
omy; and
(c) introducing financial and cost recovery policies that will pro-
mote efficient water use, and ensure the affordability of ser-
vices to the low-income population.
The proposed changes are likely to be successfully implemented since OSE's
Board and its top management team are made up of qualified professionals
(para. 2.08).
Sector f!gg!Sjag and Investes
1.07        Water supply and sewerage investments have been financed by
Government transfers, municipal taxes (Montevideo sewerage service), loans
from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and from the United States
Export Import Bank (EXIMBANK) and internal cash generation of OSE (para.
2.22). The foreign loans have been serviced by the Government which has
also provided the counterpart funds for the corresponding projects. OSE's
annual investments during 1983-86 were about US$12 million in current
prices.   These investnents ranged from small and simple works to connect
additional consumers to existing water and sewer systems throughout the
country, to construction of a major dam (Paso Severino) for the Montevideo
water supply system. The latter, financed by an IDB loan to the Government
was completed 4n 1987. The water supply and sanitation sector represented
about 0.4% of GDP during 1980-82.



-3-
1.08         OSE's US$24 million investment plan for 1988-89, under the
1985-89 plan, is designed to extend and improve water and sewerage services
in a cost-effective manner by utilizing more fully the capacity of exist-
ing facilities (Annex 1). The plan includes: (i) expansion of services in
medium-size cities; (ii) rehabilitation and replacement of obsolete
installations and equipment; and (iii) modernization and efficiency
improvements of OSE's operations.   The first item, which includes mostly
ongoing projects, will be funded by an IDB loan to the Government, and by
Governmient counterpart funds. The last two items would be financed through
OSE's internal cash generation and the proposed Bank loan to OSE.   The
investment program and financing plan for 1990-95 would be prepared under
the proposed project (para. 2.04).
Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.09        A key aspect of the Bank's strategy in Uruguay is to pursue
structural and financial reforms of public enterprises.   To this effect,
this first Bank-financed project in the water and sanitation sector in
Uruguay would assist the Government and OSE in implementing essential com-
ponents of an overall sector strategy that would include: (i) the improve-
ment of OSE's financial performance by reducing recurrent costs, particu-
larly through increased labor productivity and staff reductions; (ii) the
adequate maintenance, rehabilitation and technological upgrading of exist-
ing installations and equipment; and (iii) the implementation of cost-
effective investments in system expansion.   Bank involvement to date has
assisted OSE in the development of a pragmatic technical cooperation pro-
gram and in the identification of highly cost-effective investments in sys-
tem rehabilitation, and in operations and maintenance improvements. Future
projects could shift emphasis toward system expansion, particularly outside
Montevideo, and toward better coordination and more efficient operation of
the water and sewer systems in Montevideo.  Also, the initiation of OSE's
restructuring, including staff reductions, is a condition for Second
Tranche disbursements (scheduled for July 1988) under the First Structural
Adjustment Loan, approved by the Board in June 1987.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
2.01       In 1985, the Government requested Bank assistance in the water
and sanitation sector through OSE.  Bank assistance was requested as part
of the Government's efforts to improve the efficiency and quality of ser-
vices of public utilities while making them less reliant on Government con-
tributions.  The project was prepared by OSE with the assistance of PAHO
consultants and of a Brazilian water supply and sewerage company (SANEPAR)
(para. 2.13).
Montevideo Water Demand and Supply
2.02       The demand for water in Montevideo is projected to grow at an
average rate of less than 1% per year. Total water demand is expected to



-4-
increase from 144 million m3/year at present to about 160 million m3/year
by the year 2000 (Annex 2). The Agdas Corrientes water production system -
virtually the sole supplier of Montevideo - is presently operating at full
capacity (440,000 m3/day) and has been capable of satisfying the average
daily demand but not the peak daily demand which occurs once in several
years. Under present conditions, the city may experience water shortages
in the dry season, as it did in December 1987.   With the technological
upgrading  of  the  treatment  plant  and  the  implementation  of  the
rehabilitation works included in the project, the water production capacity
of the system will reach 530,000 m3/day in 1990, which would be sufficient
to meet the daily demand until about the year 2000. Yet it would still he
insufficient for satisfying the peak daily demand beyond 1991 at the
present level of system efficiency.  With the operational improvements to
be carried out as part of the project, which would gradually increase
system efficiency (water billed as percentage of water produced) from the
present level of 65% to about 75%, the expanded capacity of the plant would
be sufficient to also satisfy the peak daily demand until about the year
2000. Provision of additional water to Montevideo beyond that year, either
from the present source or from other sources, will be studied under the
project.
Project Objectives
2.03      The proposed project would help to modernize and restructure OSE,
aiming at reducing operating costs and increasing productivity, thus enab-
ling the entity to operate without subsidies.   The project would also
emphasize the provision of adequate services to low-income groups at
affordable prices. Specific project objectives comprise:
(a) meeting short- to medium-term water demand at minimum cost
through:
i. water savings resulting from the rehabilitation of existing
facilities and the introduction of effective operations,
maintenance and commercial practices; and
ii. increased expansion of water production, transmission and
distribution capacity resulting from the technological
upgrading and improvement of water treatment installations,
the rehabilitation of transmission mains, and the expansion
of the distribution network to new areas in Montevideo;
(b)  improving the quality of the water supplied to consumers and the
reliability of the service;
(c) improving: OSE' s financial performance by reducing recurrent
costs, particularly through increased labor productivity; and
(d)  implementing a revised sector strategy, including cost recovery
policies and a cost-effective investment plan (1990-95) to meet
the long-term demand for water and sewerage services.



-5-
Pr ctDscription
2.04        The proposed project, which would be executed between 1988 and
1995, includes four main components to be carried out in the Montevideo
System and in some eight medium-slze cities (Annex 3):
A.    Institutional Development of OSE - 7% of project cost, consisting
of:
1.   Technical  cooperation  and  training  through  a  corporate
twinning contractual arrangement with a highly effective
and efficient water utility. The technical cooperation and
training would emphasize increased labor productivity and
improved operations and customer relations.   It would also
include the improvement of logistical and administrative
systems required to support the above activities, including
personnel   management   transportation,    purchasing   and
inventory  management,   and  accounting   and   information
systems; and
2.   Technical cooperation for planning and coordination of the
proposed project.
B.    Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems - 85% of project cost
(Annex 4 and Map), consisting of:
1.   Upgrading the Aguas Corrientes treatment plant to increase
its production capacity by about .20% and to improve water
quality;
2.   Restoring the carrying capacity of two transmission mains
from the Aguas Corrientes Treatment Plant to the Montevideo
reservoirs; and rehabilitating and replacing a short
section of another transmission main in Les Piedras zone;
3.   Repairing and replacing deteriorated equipment and instal-
lations in the production and distribution systems of sev-
eral medium-size cities and in the Montevideo distribution
system; and
4.   Purchasing and installing equipment for the operation,
control and maintenance of the water and sewer systems, and
support equipment required for improving OSE's operations
and customer services, including water metering.
C.    Expansion of Montevideo Distribution System - 3% of project cost,
consisting of constructing water distribution networks (about 40 km),
house connections (about 5,000) and standpipes; and
D.    Preparation of OSE's Water Supply and Sanitation Plan - 5% of project
cost, consisting of technical assistance, including consulting
services, on the job training for OSE staff, and fellowships for
formulating:



-6-
demand projections, and service targets and standards;
a cost-effective investment plan for 1990-95 to meet the
demand for water and sewerage services in the long-term;
a tariff policy adequate to:   (a) reflect  as accurately
as possible the economic cost of meeting the projected
demand for water in all country and for sewerage services
in places outside Montevideo; (b) provide such services by
the public sector in a financially self-sufficient manner;
and (c) ensure that services will be affordable to the
whole population;
procedures to adjust tariffs and other charges on a regular
basis to reflect inflation and cost reductions resulting
from increased labor and technological efficiency;
a manpower development plan for the sector, including the
revision of institutional aspects related to the execution
of such plan; and
feasibility studies and final designs for further expansion
of the Montevideo Water Supply System, and for other
priority projects included in the 1990-95 investment plan.
Project Cost
2.05          The estimated total project cost at current prices (1988-95)
would be US$30.7 million equivalent, excluding taxes and interest charges.
The total foreign exchange cost (excluding interest on Bank Loan) would be
US$21.3 million, or 69% of the project cost. The base cost, expressed in
December 1987 prices, would be US$26.4 million, net of taxes. Construction
costs are based on unit costs developed by OSE for ongoing works.   OS0
expects to be exempt from import taxes. Physical contingencies include 101
for both civil works and supplies and equipment.   Price contingencies
assume:
(a)   a project execution period of about seven and one half years
(January 1988 - June 1995); and
(b) projected international inflation of 1% for 1988 to 1990, and
3.5% p.a. thereafter.   Variations of the exchange rate would
compensate for the difference between the local and international
inflation rates.  Detailed project costs are given in Table 2.1
and in Annex 5.



-7-
Table 2.1 Project Cost Estimate
(US$ Million)
Component                              Local        Foreign        Total
A - Institutional Development           0.6            1.2           1.8
B - Rehabilitation of Water Supply
Systems including 0 & M
Equipment                         6.6           16.0         22.6
C - Expansion of Montevideo
Distribution System               0.5            0.3          0.8
D - OSE's Water and Sanitation
Plan                              0.4           0.8           1.2
Base Cost (December 1987 prices)        8.1           18.3          26.4
Physical Contingencies (10%)            0.8            1.8           2.6
Price Contingencies                     0.5            1.2           1.7
Total Project Cost                9.4          21.3          30.7
Value Added Tax                         1.5            -             1.5
Interest on Bank Loan                    --            1.0           1.0
Total Financing Required         10.9          22.3          33.2
--^ 3ect Yinancing
2.06        The project financing plan in shown below:
Amount
Source                US Million            %
OSE                     10.9                32
Bank                    22.3                68
33.2               100
Total          -
The proposed Bank Loan of US$22.3 million includes US$21.3 million to cover
the estimated foreign component, and US$1.0 million to cover interest and
other charges on the Loan.   Financing of interest would reduce financial
pressures on OSE by allowing time for initial project work- to become
operational and generate revenues to service the debt. OSE would finance
US$10.9 million from internal cash generation.
The Borrower and the Executing Agency
2.07        The Borrower would be the Republic of Uruguay, which will make
available the proceeds of the Loan to OSE, as project executing agency, on
the same terms and conditions as those of the Loan. Both foreign exchange
and interest risk will be assumed by OSE. A draft of the subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and OSE was agreed upon
during negotiations. As a condition of Loan Effectiveness, the Government
should enter into the proposed subsidiary loan agreement with OE (para.
3.03).



-8-
2.08      OSE, the Project Executing Agency, is governed by a full-time,
three-member Board of Directors appointed by the Government. The President
of the Board is the Company's Chief Executive Officer. The General Manager
and other senior staff are career civil servants.   OSE's Board and top
management are made up of qualified professionals with substantial
experience in the sanitation sector, in private business and in
international organizations. The organization structure of the Service iR
shown in Annex 6.
2.09       OSE, with 6,900 employees, provides water and sewerage services
through some 516,000 and 91,000 house connections, respectively. The pro-
ductivity of OSE's staff is low given the large number of employees (13.0
employees per 1,000 water connections) and the lack of sufficient technical
staff needed for adequate system operation and maintenance. This situation
reflects the traditionally excessive public sector employment in the
country as well as the lack of training opportunities and systematic expo-
sure to the practices of modern utilities outside the country.  In addi-
tion, OSE's statutes and its internal regulations for personnel administra-
tion contain provisions, like hiring personnel only at the lowest levels
and filling all vacancies only by promotions from within and according to
qualified seniority, which make it difficult for the Service Management to
introduce adjustments in working practices. OSE's Management, however, is
aware of the need to establish new regulations in consultation with the
union and with the Government, and as part of the overall strategy of
institutional development  included in the proposed project.   Thus, the
twinning program under the project would include an assessment of the
existing personnel regulations and the formulation of an action program to
modify them taking into consideration the requirements of the personnel
management in an efficient and effective utility.   This action program
should be submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1989.   Assurances were also
obtained during negotiations that the Government and OSE would take the
necessary actions, including the submission, if appropriate, of draft
legislation to Congress, not later than June 30, 1989, so as to ensure the
satisfactory implementation of the consultant's recommendations (para.
3.01). An institutional overview is presented in Annex 7.
2.10       OSE's operational and financial performance is determined, to a
large extent, by the Government, which approves the Service's budget and
sets its tariffs and other charges. Traditionally, operating budgeta have
not provided sufficient resources for parts and materials. Investment bud-
gets have exceeded the Company's executing capacity and have emphasized new
projects at the expense of urgently needed rehabilitation and replacement
of deteriorating plant and equipment.   This situation is, however, being
improved, and the current five-year plan (1985-89) provides a good starting
point in the design of a more desirable development path for OSE. The plan
focuses on improving performance in several areas: operations, financial,
personnel, and project preparation and execution (para. 1.08).
2.11       OSE's commercial accounting system is generally adequate to rec-
ord and report on the Service's financial transactions, including those
related to the proposed project.  The usefulness of the accounting system
is, however, hampered by the long time lag in the issuance of the compre-
hensive financial statements (4 to 5 months) and by the lack of short, spe-
cialized, and timely reports on selected financial operations of the



-9-
Service.  These issues would be addressed as part of the technical assist-
ance included in the project.   OSE's financial statements are audited by
the  Comptroller  of  Uruguay  (Tribunal  de  iuentas).    The  Comptroller
expressed a qualified opinion on OSE's 1986 financial statements because of
lack of compliance with a legal requirement on a relatively minor matter.
2.12       OSE applies one tariff system to customers throughout the coun-
try, except for those in the resort areas of Punta del Este and Piriapolis,
who  pay  higher  tariffs.    The  tariff  structure  allows  for  a  basic
consumption block of lOm3/connection/month and highly progressive charges
for consumption in excess of this level (Annex 8). The system is not fully
adequate since it is not based on the economic costs of providing services
to different types of consumers.  The cross subsidies among types of con-
sumers are not identified and, thus, are not properly justified. In addi-
tion, the tariff structure is unduly complex as a result of an excessive
variety of consumption categories and service charges. The present tariff
level (US$0.35/m3), however, will be sufficient for OSE to satisfy its
financial needs (para. 2.24).   The tariff study under the project would
include a detailed analysis of the economic cost of the services, taking
into consideration the cost reductions expected to result from (a) the
improved system's operation and maintenance, and (b) the least-cost
arrangements for system expansion (para. 2.04).   The tariff system to be
formulated would reflect as closely as possible this cost. The study would
be completed by June 30, 1990 so as to allow sufficient time to assess
OSE's  progress  toward  the  implementation  of  the  envisaged  short- and
long-term cost reductions.   Assurances were obtained from the Government
and OSE, during negotiations, that the Bank would be given an opportunity
to comment on the study, and that the Government and OSE would implement,
not later than December 31, 1190, the new tariff (para. 3.01).
Project Iuple-entation
2.13        The overall direction and supervision of project implementation
would be carried out by a committee made up of OSE's President, the General
Manager and a full-time Project Director (Annex 9). The Committee has been
already established and a qualified Project Director has been appointed
(Resolution RD 1947/87). The day-to-day activities under the project would
be carried out by OSE's operating departments, and the technical assistance
and the project-related training would be executed i-1er a twinning
contractual arrangement.   This organization for project implementation is
an important element for the success of the project, since it: i) reflects
the support to project activities from the highest level of OSE's
management; ii) maximizes staff participation and commitment; and iii)
allows OSE to draw upon the in-house resources of the twinning company in
addressing  OSE's needs  in a pragmatic and entrepreneurial manner.   A
Brazilian water supply and sewerage company (SANEPAR) was hired by OSE in
July 1987, under terms of reference and contract satisfactory to the Bank,
for the first twinning contract under the project, which included the
design of the strategy and overall plans for institutional development
activities and for procurement of equipment and works.   The strategy and
the plans were found acceptable by the Bank.   Since this first twinning
contract was essential to enable OSE to obtain the technical assistance
required for adequate project preparation, the proposed loan includes
advanced contracting and retroactive financing of USS$250,000 to cover this



-10-
contract and related expenditures beginning on July 3, 1987 (para. 3.02).
A second twinning contract with SANEPAR - which is qualified for the job
and has developed an excellent rapport with OSE - or with another water
supply company acceptable to the Bank, would be entered into for the
provision of further technical assistance during project implementation.
The terms of reference for the second twinning contract, and the timetable
for the activities to be carried out under the contract during the first
24-months of project execution are presented in Annex  10.   To ensure
continuity of the proposed project organizational arrangements, agreement
was obtained from the Government and OSE, during Loan negotiations, on the
following (i) that the second twinning contract under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, with SANEPAR or with other water company also
acceptable to the Bank, would be signed not later than six months after the
signature of the Loan Agreement for the proposed Loan, and (ii) that OSE
would maintain, during the life of the project, the Committee established
for the overall direction and supervision of project implementation, and
that it would maintain in the position of Project Director, under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, a professional whose qualifications are
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.01).
2.14        The Institutional Development and the Rehabilitation of Water
Supply Systems project components would be carried out mainly in the
Montevideo System (50% of OSE's water connections) and in about eight
medium-size cities (cities tentatively selected--Annex 11--cover about 15%
of OSE's water connections or 30% of connections outside the Montevideo
system). Some of the investments, particularly for improving operation and
maintenance of networks, electromechanical equipment and water treatment
plants, would be carried out throughout the country.   The institutional
development and rehabilitation components would be implemented in 12-month
stages, subject to an assessment, at the close of each year, of the
accomplishments during the previous year and the development of detailed
action plans for the following year.   The yearly  action plans would
specify, inter alia, the medium-size cities in which OSE will carry out
investments under the project, the activities to be carried out, the goods,
works and services to be acquired, and the amounts to be invested in the
project.   The first detailed plan (Annex 10), which covers 24 months of
project execution, was found satisfactory by the Bank.   The subsequent
annual plans would be reviewed by the Bank by September 30 of each year
starting in 1988 (para 3.01).  The project related training program, with
specific targets to be met during the first 24 months of project execution,
would be submitted by OSE to the Bank before September 30, 1988 (para.
3.01).
2.15      The project implementation schedule provides for completion of
all project activities by the beginning of 1995 (Annex 12). The procure-
ment schedule calls for bidding of all major contracts by 1990 (Annex 13).
The bid preparation, contract awarding, and supervision of design and
construction will be carried out by OSE with the assistance of consultants
for major, specialized works (e.g. lining of transmission mains).
Status of Project Preparation
2.16      Project preparation is satisfactorily adv.nced.    The overall
strategy  and  plans  for  the  Institutional  Development  Program  and  a
detailed plan of action for the first 24 months if project execution have
been completed (para. 2.14). Designs for the upgrading and rehabilitation



-ll-
of the Montevideo treatment plant and for the distribution network
expansion are in an advanced stage of preparation by OSE's staff with the
help of consultants and will be completed by March 1988, so that bidding
for construction can be initiated immediately thereafter.   Studies and
designs for the remaining major works, including the rehabilitation of
Montevideo transmission lines, have also started and will be completed by
mid-1988.
Procurement
2.17         Procurement under the proposed project would be in accordance
with Bank Guidelines and Sample Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods
and Works. Law 15,903 of 1987 facilitates to OSE the application of Bank
Guidelines by specifically enabling public entities to follow procurement
procedures   established    in   loan   agreements   with   international
organizations. Contracts for civil works estimated to cost US$1.0 million
or more and equipment purchases for US$200,000 or more would be procured
through  international  competitive  bidding  (ICB).   Contracts  for civil
works, estimated to cost between US$200,000 and US$1.0 million and
equipment purchases estimated to cost between US$50,000 and US$200,000
would be awarded under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.   The aggregate amount of contracts so procured
would not exceed US$5.0 million for works and US$1.0 million for goods.
Contracts less than the above LCB limits would be procured on the basis of
a minimum of three quotations subject to an aggregate limit of US$500,000
for works and US$200,000 for goods (Annex 14). Small civil works under the
rehabilitation components of the project would be carried out by force
account up to an amount of US$1.5 million or about 5% of the project cost.
Domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15%
of the CIF price, or the prevailing import duty, if any, whichever is less.
2.18      Contracts for equipment and large pipes are expected to be won by
foreign manufacturers, with few exceptions. Most civil works contracts are
expected to be won by local contractors, although participation of foreign
contractors is also likely. The rehabilitation of the transmission mains
would most likely be awarded to foreign contractors because local firms do
not have the expertise and equipment required for pipe lining. UJnder local
regulations, foreign contractors must include in their proposal a certifi-
cate of registration in the "Registro de Empresas Constructoras de Obras
Publicas". Under the project, only the contractor who wins the bid would
be required to register.   Contracts for technical assistance would be
awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the use of consultants,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2.19       The thresholds established for International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) and Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) would ensure that contracts
awarded through ICB would account for about 75% of the estimated project
cost (excluding consulting services). The limits for prior review of bid-
ding documents (US$50,000 for goods and US$500,000 for civil works) would
result in a coverage of about 85% of the estimated project cost. A summary
of procurement by method is as follows:



-12-
TABLE 2.2
Procurement by Method a/
Project Element                   Procurement Method a/
ICB        LCB         OTHER         TOTAL
-- -(4[US$ million)-----
1.  Civil Works b/              9.3         5.0          1.5         15.8
(4.5)      (2.4)        (0.7)         (7.6)
2.  Equipment/Material         10.2         1.0           -           11.2
(9.4)      (0.6)          -          (10.0)
3. Consulting Services,
Training, and            --           -           3.7           3.7
Supervision of Works    --            --         (3.7)         (3.7)
19.5        6.0          5.2          30.7
(13.9)      (3.0)        (4.4)        (21.3)
a/  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank.
b/ Some civil works contracts include equipment and materials.
Disbursemnts
2.20      The proposed Bank Loan would be disbursed against (Annex 15):
(a)  45X of expenditures for civil works;
(b)  1001  of  foreign  expenditures  and  601  of  local  expenditures
for equipment and materials;
(c)  100%  of  expenditures  for  consulting  services,  training  and
supervision of works; and
(d)  interest and other charges on the Bank's Loan during its grace
period, up to a maximum of US$1.0 million.
2.21           For civil works  contracts valued at less than US$500,000
equivalent and for goods contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent
for foreign expenditures, disbursement would be against statements of
expenditures. Documentation for these expenditures would not be submitted
to the Bank, but would be retained by OSE for periodic inspection by Bank
staff. To expedite project execution, a Special Account would be opened In
the Central Bank with a deposit of up to US$2.0 million, representing four
months of peak disbursements. The Closing Date of the proposed Loan would
be June 30, 1996. The disbursement period is estimated at 8.5 years (Annex
16), consistent with the Bank's sector profile for Latin America.



-13-
Past Financial Performance
2.22         OSE's 1983-87 financial performance was not fully satisfactory
(Annexes 17 and 18).   Its revenues were roughly sufficient to cover its
operating costs and depreciation charges, but were insufficient to yield a
significant return on its sizable asset base (the largest return was the
1.4% obtained in 1986).   In addition, the accounting equilibrium between
revenues and current costs masks the insufficient expenditures for system
maintenance  and rehabilitation.   The internal  generation  of funds  for
investment was substantial (about US$10 million a year) since the company
has virtually no debt service (para. 1.07).  OSE's less than satisfactory
performance during the first two years of the period (1983 and 1984) was
due, to a large extent, to the Government's failure to introduce required
tariff adjustments.   In 1985 - 1987 the less than satisfactory financial
performance was the result of excessive growth in personnel costs,
offsetting the effects of substantial tariff adjustments between the last
quarter of 1984 and the end of 1986 (57% in real terms).  The increase in
personnel costs was caused by new hirings during the transition from the
military to the present Government, including rehiring of personnel who had
been fired during the first-mentioned Government (personnel increased from
5,750 in 1983 to 6,900 in 1987), and from increases in the average
remuneration.
2.23       OSE's overall performance in collecting accounts receivable has
been moderately satisfactory (accounts receivable at the end of the years
1985 to 1987 have been the equivalent to 2.7 to 3.2 months of billing).
This was the result of an effective collection of receivables from private
customers and of a poor collection of receivables from the Government and
public entities (between 50% to 70% of the amounts billed to the latter).
The Government and public entities delays in paying their bills represent
significant financial losses for OSE since those accounts are not subject
to monetary adjustments or penalties (private customers accounts are
subject to interest and other sanctions)* OSE has attempted to compensate
for the resulting cash shortages and financial losses by delaying payments
to other public entities, particularly the power company and social
security.   OSE and the Government are, however, taking action to correct
the situation.    OSE is intensifying  collection efforts  and  is paying
accounts due to its major creditors in accordance with agreements signed in
1986.  The Government, on its part:  (i) has issued a decree (235/987 of
May 12, 1987) by which the municipalities' (departmental governments)
participation in the proceeds of the tax on hydrocarbons and tobacco is
allocated, in first place, to the payment of bills pending with public
companies, including OSE, and (ii) is encouraging autonomous entities to
regularize their accounts payable and receivable. In addition, during
negotiations of the proposed Loan, agreement was obtained from the
Government and OSE that they would continue taking appropriate action to
improve OSE's performance in settling its accounts receivable from the
Government and public entities. The project includes specific targets and
provisions to enforce compliance (para. 2.25).



-14-
Future Financial Performance
2.24       OSE's operational and financial plans for the coming years are
based on a significant reversal of past policies (para. 1.08).  For the
first time, OSE would be responsible for the full repayment of a foreign
loan and for generating from operations the necessary counterpart funds.
To accomplish this without raising the present tariff level (US$0.35m3)
in real terms, water sales would be increased by the expansion of the
services, by more effective commercial practices, including metering and
bill collection, and by making additional water available through reduction
of losses in the system.   Unitary costs would be reduced as a result of
increased personnel efficiency, including staff reductions, and improved
operational, administrative and managerial practices (para. 2.25).Financial
resources allocated to parts, materials and equipment for systems
operations and maintenance would be increased in real terms while total
personnel costs would be reduced (para. 2.25). Financial projections based
on the above policies show a significant improvement in OSE's finances.
Net income would increase from US$4.9 million in 1986 to US$8.3 million in
1995, and the net internal generation of funds for investment would
increase from US$10.6 million to US$17.8 million (Annex 18).
Operational Performance and Nonitorlig
2.25         Since OSE's sotnd financial performance depends, to a large
extent, on the timely implementation of improvements in operational effi-
ciency and maintenance of adequate tariff levels, assurances (para. 3.01)
were obtained during Loan Negotiations that:
(a)  the Government would authorize, and OSE would implement, tar-
iffs and other service charges sufficient to cover, in each of
its fiscal years starting in 1988, operating expenses, working
capital needs, debt service payments, statutory profit distri-
butions, and contributions to capital expenditures of not less
than 30% of a three-year average capital expenditure 1/;
(b)  OSE would take the necessarv actions to decrease the average
number of employees per 1,000 average water connections during
the year as follows: 1988: 12.6; 1989: 12.1; 1990: 11.6; 1991:
11.1; 1992: 10.7; 1993: 10.2; 1994: 9.8; and 1995: 9.4;
(c)  OSE would take the necessary actions to maintain, from 1988
onward, a level of total accounts receivable for services, net
of provision for bad debts, at the equivalent of no more than
3.2 months of average sales during the last three months of the
year 1988; 3.0 in 1989; 2.8 in 1990 and 2.5 in 1991 and
thereafter. The Government, in turn, would take the necessary
actions to ensure that the accounts receivable from Government
and public entities should not exceed the above levels of
average sales to these entities;
1/ Average estimated capital expenditures for the preceding, the present,
and the forthcoming year.



-15-
(d)  to ensure that OSE meets the efficiency goals included in the
project and to ensure compliance with a) and b) above, OSE
would achieve key performance targets (Annex 19) which include:
(i)   decreasing working ratios from 81% in 1988 to 77% in
1990, and 70% in 1995;
(ii) decreasing total personnel costs from 60% of operating
costs in 1988 to 59% in 1990, and 57% in 1995;
(iii) maintaining, in each of its fiscal years starting in
1988, a current ratio (current assets over current
liabilities) of not less than 2.5; and
(iv) increasing the number of connections with working meters
from 88% in 1988 to 94% in 1993 and thereafter up to
1995.
In addition, Annex 18 contains a set of operational and financial
indicators in which the unifying concepts are increased technical and staff
efficiency, and financial viability.
Staff Effienc
2.26      Meeting the minimum staff efficiency targets (para. 2.25) would
be an important step in restructuring OSE. It implies an immediate. change
in the employment policy predominant in the service since 1965, which
resulted in an increase in personnel from 3,950 at the beginning of the
period to 6,900 at the end of 1987 (this being the result of personnel
increases between 1965-72 and between 1979-87, and personnel reductions
between 1973-78). The estimated personnel reductions during project
execution period (about 150 persons a year) would be achieved by attrition
and by strictly limiting the hiring of new staff to those required to
improve OSE's technical capability (para. 2.09). Staff is estimated to
decline to 5,700 by the end of project execution, 1995.
Deporting and Auditing
2.27       OSE, under the project, would prepare the following reports in
order to facilitate the planning and monitoring of its operational and
financial performance (para. 3.01):
(a) annual operational and financial plans, due September 30 of each
year;
(b) semi-annual progress reports due January 31 and July 31 of each
year;
(c) annual audited financial statements due June 30, of each year;
and
(d) project completion report due six months after the closing date
of the Bank Loan.



-16-
The annual operational and financial plans would include the action plans
under the Institutional Development project component (para. 2.14), the
actions to increase personnel efficiency, including staff reductions
(para. 2.25), key performance targets (para. 2.25) and three years of
financial projections. Semi-annual progress reports would cover project
implementation and achievement of key performance  targets.   The annual
audit reports would include OSE's financial statements, the Special Account
and the statement of expenditures, all of them audited by independent audi-
tors satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Justification, Benefits and Affordability
2.28        The proposed project is an integral part of OSE's medium-term
investment program, which provides a cost-effective design to meet the
demand for water in Montevideo to about the year 2000.  The project would
also enable OSE to improve water quality and reliability of service, to
increase water availability in the medium-size cities included in the proj-
ect and to provide better service at affordable prices.  Furthermore, the
project will be instrumental in assuring major sector institutional, finan-
cial and operational policy adjustments.   Failure to execute the project
would invite the risk that: (i) the entire water supply to Montevideo would
be paralyzed as a result of structural collapse or drastic reduction of
capacity of some treatment installations and two transmission mains, which
have been in service for a long time and have not been adequately operated
and maintained; and (ii) all the systems would continue to experience
increasing water losses, with the consequent need for larger investments.
Social Impact
2.29        The entire population in OSE's service area would benefit from
the project. All consumers would benefit from the more reliable supply of
better water quality.  At project completion, an additional population of
about 175,000 in Montevideo and 58,000 in medium-size cities included in
the project could be served through 49,000 and 16,000 new connections,
respectively.    The  new  connections  would  be  mainly  in  the  marginal
communities  surrounding the  cities.   The income  of about  33% of  the
population which would benefit from these connections is believed to be
lower than the urban poverty threshold of US$600 per capita per year.
About 38% of funds invested in the project would improve the availability
and quality of water for the poor. The affordability of services based on
August 1986 tariffs was evaluated. A family at the poverty threshold would
pay about 1% of its monthly income for a minimum monthly water supply of 10
i3. This charge is fully affordable.
Economic Analysis
2.30      The internal rate of return is estimated to be 25% for the entire
project and 26% for the Montevideo project component alone (Annex 20).
Both rates of return are above the opportunity cost of capital in Uruguay



-17-
(11%).     Sensitivity  tests  carried  out  show  that  the  Project  is
significantly sensitive to changes in personnel costs, moderately sensitive
to changes in system efficiency, and slightly sensitive to capital costs
and tariff revenues. Should the personnel costs increase by 10%, the IRR
would decrease to about 12% for Loth the entire project and the Montevideo
component. Revenues from consumer charges (based ort average 1987 tariffs)
were used as a minimum measure of economic benefits. Financial costs were
used in lieu of economic costs since price distortions are thought to be
negligible. As in all water supply projects, revenues do not fully capture
such project benefits as improved health and enhanced property values.
Consumer surplus is also excluded from the calculation.
Operational lupact
2.31          The project would substantially  improve OSE's operational
effectiveness   and   efficiency   through   the   introduction   of   more
entrepreneurial practices in the following areas:
(a) Operations and maintenance - Introduction of procedures and
criteria   to   maintain   and   replace   installations,   reduce
overspending on keeping old facilities in running conditions, and
increase the system efficiency (from 60% of total water
production billed in 1987 to 702 in 1995).   Staff training and
the provision of adequate equipment and materials will facilitate
an effective performance in line with the new procedures.
(b) Commercial - Development of procedures to strengthen customer
services both in Montevideo and in the regional offices, better
coordinate commercial and operational areas, shorten the bill
collection  cycle,   and  develop  more  appropriate  metering
technology for domestic consumers.
(c) Personnel - Introduction of entrepreneurial practices to motivate
and develop OSE's employees.   This would help OSE to operate
economically, capitalize on its human resources, and more
successfully compete in the labor market for these resources.
(d) Planning and Design - Development of medium- to long-term sector
strategy and plans to ensure the supply of services at least
cost.
h'niroumetatl lipact
2.32 The proposed project would improve sanitary conditions in OSE's
service area by providing a safe, reliable supply of water through improved
operation and maintenance of the water and sewer systems.   Complementary
expansion of Montevideo sewer system is being carried out by the
Municipality with IDB financing. These works would adequately dispose of
most water produced by the project.   Per capita consumption in marginal
areas not covered by the sewer system is relatively low and would be
adequately handled through individual disposal systems.



-18-
Risks and Safeguard.
2.33          The main project risk is possible opposition to some of the
politically difficult  changes proposed,  especially staff reductions and
required changes in OSE's regulations for personnel management.   However,
the probability of success is reasonable given the Government's and OSE's
commitment  to  the  project  goals,  and  the  Government's  success  in
implementing cost-reduction programs in other enterprises.   In addition,
the fiscal constraints faced by the Government would encourage the
authorities to pursue policies which will eliminate transfers to the
sector, and to help OSE to reach financial self sufficiency. Another risk
concerns staff resistance to changes in working practices.   The project
design reduces this risk by introducing a twinning arrangement with
frequent contacts between the mentor institution's staff and OSE
counterparts.   Also, OSE's strategy for institutional development which
ineludes close consultation and collaboration with the union, and a
gradualistic approach to reform increases the probability of success.
III.  AGREE2Mi1NTS TO BE REACHED AND RECONENDAXIONS
3.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)  the Government  and  OSE would  complete  by June  30,  1989 an
assessment of OSE's personnel regulations and an action program
to modify them, and would take the necessary actions, including
the submission, if appropriate, of draft legislation to Congress,
by June 30, 1989, so as to ensure a satisfactory implementation
of the program (para. 2.09);
(b)  the Government and OSE would complete, by June 30, 1990, a tariff
study satisfactory to the Bank and would implement, not later
than December 31, 1990, the new tariff (para. 2.12);
(c) OSE (i) would enter into a second twinning contract satisfactory
to the Bank not later than six months after the signature of the
Loan Agreement for the proposed Loan; and (ii) would maintain,
during the life of the project, the Committee established for the
overall direction and supervision of the project, and that it
would maintain as a Project Director a professional whose
qualifications are acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.13);
(d) OSE would present to the Bank yearly action plans for instit-
utional  development   and   rehabilitaion   under   the  project
specifying, inter alia, the cities in which OSE would carry out
investments, the activities to be carried out, and the amounts to
be invested (para 2.14); and
(e) OSE would submit to the Bank before September 30, 1988, a
detailed training program for the first 24 months of project
execution (para. 2.14);



-19-
(f) OSE would maintain and Government would take action on its part
to enable OSE to maintain (i) tariffs and other charges
sufficient to cover operational expenses, working capital needs,
debt service payments, statutory profit distributions, and
contributions to capital expenditures of not less than 30% of
such capital expenditures; and (ii) working and current ratios
(para.2.25);
(g) OSE and the Government would take the necessary actions to: (i)
increase personnel efficiency as expressed by the relation
between the number of employees and the number of water
connections; (ii) reduce the level of accounts receivable from
private and public customers in relation to sales; and (iii)
achieve key performance targets, including personnel cost
reductions as a percentage of operating costs, and number of
connections with working meters (para. 2.25);
(h) OSE would present to the Bank audited financial statements, prog-
ress reports and a project completion report (para. 2.27).
3.02      Advance contracting and retroactive financing of US$250,000 from
July 3, 1987 are recommended for the technical cooperation program (para.
2.13),
3.03      As a condition of Loan Effectiveness, the Government should enter
into a subsidiary loan agreement with OSE (para 2407).
3.04       The proposed project, with the above assurances, agreements and
conditions, would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$22.3 milliun to be
repaid over a period of 17 years, including four years of grace.



-20-                      ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
OSE InvestmedttPlat', 1980-1989
(in Million USU)
1988    1989    1988-89
___________________________
WATER SUPPLY
____________
Montevideo: Production            0.40    0.00       0.40
Transmission         0.34    0.53        0.86
Distribution         0.91    1.36        2.28
O & M Equipmei'      0.32    0.04        0.37
Subtotal             1.98    1.93        3.91
Interior:   Production            1.06    1.20       2.26
Transmission         0.79    0.00        0.79
Distribution         3.44    4.82        8.26
0 & M Equipment      0.56    0.46        1.02
Subtotal             5.85    6.48       12.33
--___-----____________________________________
Total                             7.82    8.42      16.24
            J._________ & _------------- ----------------------------
Proposed IBRD Project (a)       (3.37)  (4.75)      (8.12)
SEWERAGE
____________
Interior:   Collection           2.45    2.56        5.01
Treatment            0.90    0.13        1.03
Disposal             0.09    0.20        0.29
O & M Equipment      0.10    0.15        0.25
Total                             3.53    3.04       6.58
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION            0.64    0.54       1.18
GRAND TOTAL                      12.00   12.00      24.00
(a) Figures in brackets are included in total water
supply investments



-21-                                AR IEX1
Page 2 of 3
OSE INVSTNT PLAN. 1B-99
WA1M SUPPLY
0  M EqWi  m t   W
Production (16A4)
'tmnwrm o  (1 0.2XC)
DistribuMan (4O
OSE IFTNENT PLAN. 19889
SEWERG
M    p,t                                   d 4i     ( (&OX)
T_etr"n (i 5
Collcb Di    (so-a)



-22-
ANNEXI1
Page 3 of 3
OSE INVESTMENT PLA1 1988-39
SOURCES OF FINANCING
De  (22.6%)                      D (23.X)
-nment ("%) i5\                     \
(u1f"(7.%                               -4X



URUGUAY
WATERsupPLY    ILTTION PROJECT
Montevideo Water Demand and Supply
V W197    19118                                                              1989   199(d)       1I      12        1         1M        195S    19      I97      9m    9m        26
hpolation, toandInhaitants                              1,487.2 1,496.4   1,505.?   1,562.6   1,579.3 1,590.0   1,600.4   1,611.1   1,621.9  1,632.2  1,642.6 1,653.1 1,66.  1,674.2
Service Corage, t                                          93.0    93.0      ".0       94.0      9.5    95.0       95.5      96.0      96.0    96.5    q6.5    96.5    96.5    97.0
pulation Served, tbo       inabitants                   1,393.1  1,391.7   1,415.4   1,468.8   1,492.4 1,510.5   1,528.4   1,546.7   1,557.0 1,575.1  1,585.1  1,559.2 1,605.4 1,624.0
NO. Of Connctions, thosand                                276.6   27.3      233.1     23.6      296.5   302.1     305.7     309.3     311.4   315.0   31t.0   319.0   321.1   324.3
Conumption, sillion s3l/r                                  95.9    %.5       98.2     101.9     103.5   104.0     106.0     107.3     106.0   109.2   109.9   110.6   11t.3  12.6
System Efficiency, 1  (a)                                  65.0    66.0      67.0      69.0      71.0    72.0      73.0      74.0      75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0    75.0
Production, million m3/yr                                 147.6   146.2     146.5     147.6     145.8   145.5     145.2     144.9     144.0   145.6   146.6   147.5   146.4   150.2
Prodction-Arage Day, thousad a3lday                       404.3   400.6     401.4    404.5      39.4   399.6      397.5     397.1     394.4   399.    401.6   404.1   40t      411.4
Production-Dry Sasn, thousad m3Iday  (b)                  464.9   460.7     461.6    465.1      49.3   456.4      457.5     456.7     453.6   458.9   461.6   464.7   467.7   473.1
Productio-Peak Day, thond m3lday  c)                      505.4   500.8     501.7     505.6     4S9.2   496.3     497.2       6.4     493.1   496.6   502.0   505.2   509.4   514.3
Capacity, thosand e3rday                                  40.0   440.0      440.0     530.0     530.0   530.0     530.0     530.0     530.0   530.0   530.0   530.0   530.0   530.0
Capacity  inus Prodctio-ry Sasn, thousand  3lday          (24.9)  (20.7)    (21.6)     64.9      70.7    71.6      72.5      73.3      76.4    71.1    66.2    65.3    62.3    5L9
Capaity sims Production-Peak Day, thousand  3day          (65.4)  (60.9)    161.7)     24.4      30.8    31.7      32.8      33.6      36.9    31.2    29.0    24.9    21.6    15.7
Cnwmption pr tcpita, liday             I0
Ppulation Density, iB.IcoMnet.           5
Consumption per Contion, u31oonth       29
Dry Season DayAverage Dky Ratio  (b)   1.15
Ped DayAverag  Dky Ratio  Ic)          1.25
la) System Efficiency is eatr billed as percete of ater proueod.
(b) Daily ded in dry season is estinted at 1.15 of aera  daily  md  and occKurs ey yea.
Ic) Peak daily d_ed is estiated at 1.25 of averg  daily demnd and my occur once in s"eral yms.
Id) Tl. sbhp inrea  in n  of conctions and population wrvd is d,. to the inration of m  swrvice ares in 1990.
.o
0



-24-                             ANNEX 2
PRODUCTION vs. CAPACY                                        a 
DAJLY DEMAND-CRY SASON
so -
t  "0                                   PRODUCTION-W/0O PEPAnoiAL imP         o 
,,  240 -           r               ROWTINWrH  PRSOK               U
MO 
4 80-
440
420 -
400 -
340
320 
1967 168 1969 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1996 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
PRODUCTION vs. CAPACITY
PEAK DAILY DEMAN
680 4SO -         /PRODUCTION-W/0 OPERATIONAL IMPROVE
Saa
s     6400-
E     320-
3800-                           PRODUCT|IONWf  OPERAIONA  IMPRVEMNT
460 
440-
a 420 
c  400-
06
340-
320-
1967 1968 1969 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
Y ea rs



-25-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Description
1.        The project includes the following components:  (a) institutional
development of OSE; (b) rehabilitation of water supply systems; (c)
expansion of Montevideo distribution system; and (d) preparation of OSE's
Water Supply and Sanitation Plan.
2.        Below is a list of the main project components:
Part A. - Institutional Development of OSE
A.1 Technical cooperation and training through a corporate twinning
contractual arrangement with a highly effective and efficient
utility. The technical cooperation and training would emphasise
increased labor productivity, improved water and sewerage systems
operations, and customer relations.   It would also include the
improvement of logistic and administrative systems required to
support the, above activities, inter alia, personnel management,
transportation,   purchasing  and   inventory  management,   and
accounting and information systems; and
A.2 Technical cooperation for planning and coordination of the pro-
posed project.
Part B. - Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems
B.1  Upgrading of "Aguas Corrientes" Treatment Plant.   Hydraulic,
structural and process modifications to improve the plant
performance and to increase its capacity from about 440,000 to
530,000 m3 per day;
B.2 Restoration of carrying capacity of transmission mains. Lining
and  partial  substitution  of  two  transmission  mains  from
the "Aguas Corrientes" Treatment Plant to the Montevideo
reservoirs (second and third transmission mains with a diameter
of 30 inch and 36 inch and a total length of 35 and 46
kilometers, respeutively). Rehabilitating and replacing a short
section of another transmission main in Las Piedras zone.
B.3 Water distribution network rehabilitation. Repair and replace-
ment of 160 kms of pipelines in Montevideo and in medium-size
cities (about 80 kms. in the Montevideo system and about 80 kin.
in medium-size cities).     P



-26-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
B.4  Purchasing and installing equipment for the operation, control
and maintenance of the water and sewer systems, and support
equipment required for improving OSE's operations and customer
services:
-    Purchase and installation of water meters in water
treatment plants, water storage tanks amd water
mains;
-    Purchase of vehicles, equipment and tools, and contracting
of civil works required for maintaining water distribution
pipes, sewers and equipment, including meters.   Setting up
of systems for preventive and corrective maintenance for
water distribution and sewerage networks;
-    Purchase of pitometers and accessory equipment, and setting
up of a system for routine surveys;
-    Purchase of data processing and telecommunications
equipment, upgrading of OSE-users communication practices
and procedures, updating of consumer files, upgrading of
billing   and   collection   systems,   and   purchase   and
installation of water consumption meters (about 70,000 for
the Montevideo System and about 30,000 for medium-sise
cities);
-    Purchase of equipment and materials, and contracting of
civil works required to support and complement activities
above.    The  systems  include,  inter  alia,  personnel,
transportation, purchasing and inventory management, and
accounting and information systems.
Part C. - Expansion of Montevideo Distribution System
C.1  Construction of about 40 kms. of water distribution networks,
about 5,000 house connections, and standpipes; and
Part D. - Preparation of OSE's Water Supply and Sanitation Plan
D.1   Technical assistance including consulting services, on-the-job
training for OSE staff, and fellowships for formulating:
-    demand projections and service targets and standards;
-    a cost-effective investment plan for 1990-95 to meet the
demand for water and sewerage services in the long term;



-27-
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
a tariff policy and structure adequate to:  (a) reflect as
accurately as possible the economic cost of meeting the
projected demand for water in all country and for sewerage
services in places outside Montevideo; (b) provide such
services   by   the   public   sector   in  a   financially
self-sufficient manner; and (c) ensure that services will
be affordable to the whole population;
procedures for tariff and other charges adjustments on a
regular basis to reflect inflation and cost reductions
resulting from increased labor and technological   effi-
ciency;
a manpower development plan for the sector, including the
services of institutional aspects related to execution of
such plan, and
feasibility studies and detailed engineering designs for
further expansion of the Montevideo Water Supply System,
and for other priority projects included in the 1990-95
investment plan.



-28-
AN=EX 4
Page 1 of 13
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
MONTEVIDEO WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
Technical Background
The Montevideo Water Supply System consists of three main com-
ponents:
(1) the Aguas Corrientes production system, which includes: the
intake from the Santa Lucia River, the treatment plant and the
main pumping stations;
(2) the transmission system from the Aguas Corrientes headvorks to
the main reservoirs of the city, which includes: four transmis-
sion mains and several booster pumping stations; and
(3) the distribution system.
The proposed project includes the following major items:
(1) upgrading and rehabilitation of the Aguas Corrientes treatment
plant in order to improve the plant performance and to increase
its capacity (item B.1);
(2) rehabilitation of two transmission lines in order to restore
their carrying capacity (item B.2); and
(3) expansion of the distribution system to serve new areas (item C).
Each of these items is briefly described below.
1. AGUAS CORRIENTES TREATMENT PLAIT
1.1 Brief Description and History
The Aguas Corrientes treatment plant consists of two separate
plants, referred to as the "Old Plant" and the "New Plant" (Figure 1).
The Old Plant was constructed at various stages between 1890 and 1952,
and consists of: addition of alum as chemical coagulant; a rapid mix basin
for coagulation, but no flocculation units; six rectangular sedimentation
basins; and three batteries of rapid sand filters.
The New Plant was constructed in 1964 and consists of:  addition of
alum as chemical coagulant; four circular clarifiers, of the "Acoelator"
type, i.e. solids-contact reactor-clarifiers, which combine rapid mix,
flocculation and sedimentation in one unit; and twenty rapid sand filters,
with an underdrainage system of the "Wheeler" type (with false bottom).



ANNEX 4
-29-                          Page 2 of 13
The two plants share common facilities for filtered water stor-
age, alum preparation and storage, lime addition for reducing the acidity
of the treated water, and chlorination for disinfection.
1.2 Present Capacity
The present capacity of the plant is 440,000 m3/d (treated water)
or 460,000 m3/d (raw water). This capacity is obtained by operating both
the "old" and the "new" installations at full capacity; an interconnection
between the two plants has been recently constructed to facilitate pumping
of part of the water treated in the old sedimentation basins (in excess of
the capacity of the old filters) to the new filters. The following table
summarizes the present capacities of the various units (figures given cor-
respond to raw water capacity).
Table No. 1: Present Capacity of Treatment Units (m0/d)
Old Plant        New Plant       Total
Sedimentation Basins               2'- 000 (a)        240,000      460,000(b)
Filters                            180,000            280,000      460,000
Transfer from Old to New Plant(c)        40,000-80,000
(a)  The capacity of the old sedimentation basins is normally 220,000 m5/d,
but occasionally they have been operated at 260,000 m3/d.
(b) The sedimentation basins of the Old Plant and those of the New Plant
are not operated simultaneously at maximum capacity.
(c) Pumping from the old sedimentation basins to the new filters.
1.3. Water Quality
In spite of the problems associated with the operation and main-
tenance of the treatment plant installations, some of which have been in
service for a very long time, the quality of the treated water is accept-
able. Turbidity, which is the best single indicator of overall water qual-
ity, has been reduced over the years from average yearly values of 20-50
units in the raw water to 1-2 units in the filtered water (Figure 2).
A major water quality problem of the Montevideo system is the
acidity of the water after treatment.   Average yearly pH values in the
treated water are in the range 6.5 to 7.5 and minimum average yearly values
are as low as 4.5 to 6.0 (Figure 3). Correspondingly, negative saturation
(Langelier) indexes characterize the treated water, thus indicating its
high corrosiveness. Average yearly Tangelier index varies within the range
(-1) to (-2), with minimum average yearly values between (-2.5) and
(-5.0). The high acidity of the water, which is caused by the high alum
dosages used and the lack of suitable lime neutralization facilities, is
presumably responsible to a great extent for the corrosion of conveyance
and distribution mains which are made of non-resistant materials (e.g.
unlined steel pipes), and the consequent high water losses in the system.
The quality of the water treated in the New Plant is generally
better than in the Old Plant.   The average monthly turbidity removal
usually varies between 95-99% in the New Plant, and between 90-95% in the



ANNEX 4
-30-                          Page 3 of 13
Old Plant (Figure 4).  However, during the dry months of the year, when raw
water turbidities are low, much lower removals are obtained (80-85% in the
New Plant and 70-80% in the Old Plant).
1.4. Future Plant Capacity
The future capacity of the plant, after improvements and expan-
sion, will be: 530,000 m3/d (treated water) or 560,000 m3/d (raw water).
In order to satisfy the future requirements, the capacity of the
plant has to be expanded by about 20%, in addition to a series of improve-
ments needed in order to be able to continue operating the existing facili-
ties. Table No. 2 summarizes the capacity of the main treatment units at
each plant, under two operation alternatives which are discussed further
(design figures corresponding to raw water capacity are given).
Sedimentation Basins.   The design capacity of the Accelators - the
sedimentation basins of the new plant - is 440,000 m3/d or 110,000 for each
tank, which corresponds to a high overflow rate of 3.5 m/h. In practice,
they could never be operated at more than 240,000 m3/d or 60,000 m3/d for
each tank, which corresponds to a maximum overflow rate of 1.9 m/h.  At
higher rates, rising of the sludge blanket occurs, and the quality of the
settled water worsens considerably.   However, it might be possible to
increase the treatment capacity of the Accelators to a certain extent, by
using coagulant aids such as polymers or activated silica.  These would
have the effect of improving coagulation and flocculation, and mainly of
increasing the weight of the flocs, and, thus, their settleability.   A
study, consisting of both laboratory jar tests and full-scale field tests
in one Accelator, is being carried out by OSE and its consultant in order
to determine its maximum treatment capacity when both alum and a coagulant
aid are employed.   Good results were obtained in the dry season when raw
water turbidities were low; additional tests are being carried out in the
rainy season with high-turbidity water.
Another possibility envisaged for increasing the treatment capa-
city of the Accelators is by installation of modular tube settlers, which
would increase the effective surface settling area and, thus, permit their
operation at higher loading rates. Pilot scale tests will be undertaken by
OSE and its consultant, in cooperation with manufacturers of modular tubes,
in order to evaluate the maximum treatment capacity of the Accelators uti-
lizing this technique, and its cost.
As long as the possibility of increasing the capacity of the
Accelators has not be fully proved, they must be considered as limited to
their present capacity of 240,000 m3/d.   However,  it is possible to
increase the capacity of the plant by upgrading the sedimentation basins of
the Old Plant, in order to: (1) create a flocculation zone which, at pres-
ent, does not exist; and (2) improve their hydraulic behavior by modifying
the inlet and outlet conditions and partitioning the basin to correct
short-circuiting.   The quality of the settled water in the Old Plant is
virtually the same as that obtained in the Accelators of the New Plant
(Figure 5).  After the upgrading is carried out, the maximum treatment
capacity of the sedimentation basins of the Old Plant would be increased
from 260,000 m3/d to 320,000 m3/d, i.e. by about 25%.



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 13
-31-
Other alternatives, which were considered at the preliminary
design stage by OSE and its consultant, consisting of construction of new
flocculation - sedimentation units, have been discarded because of their
higher cost; they are deemed unnecessary, as long as the existing installa-
tions can be upgraded at a lower cost. The upgrading of the existing sedi-
mentation basins is estimated to cost about US$1.0 million, whereas the
construction of new sedimentation units would cost about US$3.0 million.
If the tests that are being carried out prove that the capacity
of the Accelators can be increased, the extra capacity available would pro-
vide better water quality and greater flexibility of operation that would
facilitate regular maintenance of the installations.
Filters. The rapid sand filters of the Old Plant treat, at present, a
total flow of 180,000 m3/d, which corresponds to a filtration rate of about
4.5 m/h. Considering that the average turbidity handled by these filters
is usually in the range 2-6 units (average monthly values in the settled
water), the filtration rate employed is acceptable and should provide a
high quality filtered water. However, the quality of the filtered water of
the Old Plant is low and much poorer than that of the New Plant. Figure 5
indicates that the efficiency of the sedimentation basins is very similar
in both the old and the new plants, whereas the performance of the old fil-
ters is much poorer than that of the new ones. The low average efficien-
cies of less than 50% and average turbidities in the range 1-3 units, which
are obtained in the old filters, at the filtration rate and influent water
quality indicated, are presumably due to poor operation and inadequate
maintenance of the filters.
The rapid sand filters of the New Plant were originally designed
for a total flow of 440,000 m3/d, which corresponds to a filtration rate of
4.6 m/h. However, as the Old Plant was maintained in service (because of
the limited capacity of the new iccelators), the new filters have been usu-
ally operated at a total flow of only 280,000 m3/d, and occasionally at
320,000 m3/d, corresponding to an average filtration rate of 3-3.3 m/h.
The filtered water of the New Plant is generally of high quality - average
monthly turbidity below 1 - and the efficiency of the new filters varies
between 60-90%. The high variability in the efficiency of the new filters,
as indicated by the diagram in Figure 5, reflects serious operation and
maintenance problems which have already been identified by OSE and its con-
sultant. But even more serious than that is the structural condition of
the filters.  Both the false bottom, which is of the "Wheeler" type, and
the real (structural) bottom, which also serves as the ceiling of the fil-
tered water basins, need to be urgently repaired and, possibly, replaced.
All the improvements required must be undertaken, even without increasing
the treatment capacity of the new filters. Otherwise, there is danger of
structural collapse of the filters of the New Plant and of the plant's fil-
tered water deposit located below, with the tremendous consequence of para-
lyzing the entire water supply to Montevideo.
With respect to the expansion of the plant capacity, two extreme
modes  of  operation  are  envisaged  for  the  filters.    If,  after  the
rehabilitation of the old filters which is carried out by OSE, they will
prove capable of producing a high-quality water, they will be able to
continue operating at their present maximum capacity of 180,000 m3/d
(Operation Mode 1).



-32-                          ANNEX     t3
Page 5 of 13
On the other hand, the new filters - after improvements are car-
ried out - could treat the whole flow of 560,000 m3/d (Operation Mode 2).
This would correspond to a filtration rate of 5.8 m3/h, which is accept-
able, considering that the improvements to be carried out include replace-
ment of the filter media.
An 'niterim operation mode between the two extremes might be the
most attracti,d, i.e. using the old filters at less than their maximum
capacity to ensure high-quality water (e.g. two thirds or 120,000 m3/d) and
treating in the new filters the remainder of the flow (440,000 m3/d), which
corresponds to their original design capacity.
The amount of water that has to be transferred from the old sedi-
mentation basins to the new filters varies in accordance with the mode of
operation selected for the filters. Evaluations carried out by OSE and its
consultant have shown that this transfer oan be done by means of a gravity
channel which, is more economical than pumping.   This solution involves
some minor structural modification of the old sedimentation basins.
Table No. 2: Future Capacity of Treatment Units (m3/d)
Old Plant      New Plant        Total
Sedimentation
Basins                                320,000 (a)    240,000 (b)   560,000
Filters       Operation Mode I (c)   180,000          380,000       560,000
Operation Mode 2 (d)       -    (d)    560,000(d)    560,000
Interim Mode   (e)   120,000         440,000       500,000
Transfer from Old to New Plant (f)
Operation Mode 1                140,000
Operation Mode 2                320,000
Interim Mode                  200,000
(a) To be obtained by upgrading two of the old sedimentation basins.
(b) Might increase if tests prove that the Accelators can be operated at
higher capacity than at present.
(c) The old filters continue to operate at their present capacity, after
thorough maintenance is carried out.
(d) The new filters are operated at maximum capacity and take care of all
the plant flow, while the old filters are maintained only as a standby
facility.
(e) Any interim combination between Modes 1 and 2 can be adopted, i.e.
operating the old filters at less than the present capacity and the
new filters at less than the maximum capacity.
(f) Transfer from old sedimentation basins to new filters.



-33-                           ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 13
1.5. ProJect Components and Cost
The proposed project includes the rehabilitation, upgrading and
expansion of the Agua Corrientes treatment plant and consists of the fol-
lowing components:
1) - Repair and upgrading of the Accelatora
2) - Itpgrading of two of the old sedimentation basins
3) - Rehabilitation, repair and upgrading of the new filters
4) - Construction of a gravity channel from the old sedimentation basins to
the new filters
5) - Installation of facilities for storage, preparation and dosing of
coagulant aid
6) - Upgrading, repair and safety improvement of the alum preparation
facilities
7) - Rehabilitation and expansion of the lime neutralization facilities
8) - Upgrading, rehabilitation and expansion of the chlorination facilities
9) - Flood protection of the pumping stations
10)- Improvement of the raw water tunnels
1)- Instrumentation
The total cost of these items is estimated at US$3.4 million.
1.6. Studies Required
The proposed project also includes a series of studies required
for the optimization of the plant operation, from a technical as well as an
economical point of view.  The most important studies to be carried out
are the following:
(a)  Optimization of the chemical treatment, with the objective of
reducing water corrosivity and overall treatment costs. Various
chemical treatment alternatives are being investigated, both in
jar tests and at field-scale, including: use of lower dosages of
alum in combination with coagulant aids (various polyelectro-
lites, activated silica, eto); use of lime, caustic soda or other
alkaline chemicals; use of ferric chloride together with lime,
instead of alum followed by lime; etc.
(b) Umgrading of the Accelators, with the obJective of increasing
their treatment capacity.
(o) Seasonal Use of the Direct Filtration Process. It has been sug-
gested that, during the dry season, when raw water turbidities
are low, chemical coagulation-flocculation and clarification
could be bypassed. This process, which consists of the addition
of small doses of alum and/or polyelectrolites prior to the
filters, require certain amount of expertise in the operation of
the filters.   Thus,  it will have to be investigated in the
laboratory and in a small pilot plant, prior to its large-scale
implementation.   It has good potential for reducing treatment
costs,  especially  when  considering  that  the  dry  season
corresponds to the peak water demand period of the year.



-34-                           ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 13
2. TRANSMISSION LINES
The transmission system from the Aguas Corrientes plant to the
main Montevideo reservoirs consists of four pipelines laid at various
stages between 1890 and 1964:
(a) the first line - cast iron pipe, 24 inch diameter;
(b) the second line - steel pipe, 30-inoh;
(c) the third line - steel pipe, 36-inch; and
(d) the fourth line - prestressed concrete, 60 - inch.
The length of each of these lines varies between 35 and 50 km.
Booster pumping stations have been added along each line to increase their
hydraulic capacity. The last of these - a booster pumping station on the
fourth line - is presently under construction, with an IDB loan.
OSE has been facing major problems in the operation and main-
tenance of the 2nd and 3rd lines, with the consequent effect of reduction
in hydraulic capacity and water losses. These two lines, which have been
laid in 1909 and 1931, respectively, have a total length of 35 km and 46
km, respectively, and are made of steel, coated with bitumen both intern-
ally and externally; no cathodic protection has been applied to these
pipes. Two types of problems have been identified: (1) internal corrosion
due to the corrosivity of the water along the whole pipe length; and (2)
external corrosion at specific locations, presumably due to soil corrosi-
vity and to aggressive sewage water flowing in some of the streams crossing
the area.   According to available records, a total number of about 250
leaks per year occur along these tow lines.
A study carried out recently by Swedish consultants recommended
in-situ internal cement - mortar lining of these two pipes, as a solution
to the leakage problem and in order to restore their carrying capacity. In
some defined sections, the condition of the pipe is so bad that replacement
of about 1 km of each of the two pipes will be required.  In addition, it
was found that about 2 km of Line 2 (and also 2 km of Line 1), which are
found under houses in Las Piedras Zone, have to be replaced and laid along
streets.  The total cost of lining and replacement of transmission mains
(including relaying of pipes in Las Piedras Zone) is estimated at US$6.5
million. The Swedish consultants are presently engaged in the preparation
of the bidding documents for the above job.
3. DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
The project includes the following new areas:
-    Villa Garcia
-    Las Flores
-    Pajas Blancas
-    Sta. Catalina
-    San Rafael
-    Sta. Ana



-35-                         ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 13
The total length of the distribution system in these areas is
about 40 km and the pipe diameters vary between 4 and 8 inches.
Additionally, the disinfection system will be strengthened, by
installing secondary chlorination facilities along the 3rd and 4th trans-
mission lines. Similar facilities already exist for the water supplied by
the 1st and 2nd transmission lines. Since the primary chlorination carried
out at the Aguas Corrientes plant is not sufficient to ensure residual
chlorine in the distribution system, secondary chlorination at some point
near the city is necessary as preventive disinfection, in order to minimize
the regrowth of bacteria in the distribution system and mainly in the sec-
ondary storage reservoirs located throughout the city.  Sites to be con-
sidered for the additional chlorination facilities are:  the new booster
pumping station along the 4th line and the Cerrito storage reservoirs.
The total cost of the distribution system expansion (including
the secondary chlorination facilities) is estimated at US$0.8 million.



AGUAS CORRIENTES TREATMENT PLANT
OLD PLANT
APum            a
FW     Lime
o            Sedirn. Basins       Filters.
3 RW
Alum            ci                        ___
5Cl ear Water
It            FW      Reservoir 
kcelators         Filters
NEW  PLANT            RW - Raw Water
SW - Settled Water
FW - Filtered Water



-37-                                MiE   4
Pa   0of 13
TREATMENT PLANT PERFORMANCE   ySl^ure 2
AVER YDALY TURBIOITY
400-
30
*      20
10R                                          TX 
*   70  71  7      3  74  76  76  77  76  79  60  IL   S              84  U   a
Y E A R *
3'
2.68
24
0.4
n2
,- ii                                          , , ,-| w I
*  1.0 
1.6 
'I1.4
1.2 
1
0.4                     TR A E                   AE
0.2
*   70  71  72  73  74  7076  77  78  7    0  61  ;U   U   04  as  as
EA RS



pH before and dter Trea"t
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ on
Op tW 416
4
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
fO ;O    n        n  73 n47     n  n n  a ez a es a4 ;5 4IS              -     -vi am- Wcm                    s_ hwM *W.T__be
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* SUtur tion lndex
0~
.                                   o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
i - b~~Sauato Index                                                                                           W
-0.2 
-0 .4 _
-0.6      *5
,    8-l.
-2  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~                                      -I.E~~~~~~~~-
-s                                            i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
&                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&
0 .4t -243                                                                                                                             5// T"
_6~~~~~ ~ ~ .                                        4*       ,,/{//z 
XD~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t;                                                              77S 74w7 0X oe Qs8 D1  -Wd    l,T
Y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ a



Ove0a Turty Remova_ - Ms
to.                                           .                                   X                               *
to                                                 t
A   '      *X8*
7e                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
fs                                       _r
7' 
Overall Turbidity Removal - 1986
24
1.2 424
to             MD PtAw ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                        24
L.a                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22
02.                                        14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r..
so -                                        12 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-0
70      ______                                                                                                                        Z



-4                                    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
0                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to
to
4rwe ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~c
(JO ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    V 
fA~~~    ~      ~                                                                                                       -I 0
as
atg 
gm                                      ~~ ~~~~~~~gme - v11Al4 WiOmmdV A!PPP'..L
nit as ES  en aIQsa   Po2wVWlw ft 44 io                                                       V    -
'0                 4              4    4    4                 
Snu ama
to                                                                   IS
'at
'S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~iuw
-8 - =Ing '"'w  *FACC34 O              pp



VATU WIZM AU0   flfA RC OJUCT
ftoict cost lBst.' ,te
(ill W Shomed
I of                   S
CeOMP t/lbwo_OPmt                            Toeta Total  Lca Frdip Feroip              1w7    1l99    196    19"    1991    1m        19      194    1995
A- INh9TITUTIhUIL DEIJt
. Tmical Ceqoeration I Training                                1,500     6     315   1,125      75        100      0      200    200      200     200    200  200    100
2. ProeKt Planing   Coordintion                                  300      1    10      120     40         40      60      30      30      30      30      30      30      20
SUI8TOTL4)                                                   1,00     7     55   1,245       69        140    260      230    230    230       230    230      130      120
IF IEAILITATIUN OF UIER SFL? SYSTEMS
1. Upgrading of Al   Corrientes Treamnt Plant                  3,500    13  2,100   1,400       40         50   1,100   1,350   1,000
2. Restoring Capcity of Transmission Nains to Ilnmtevideo      6,500    25   1,625  4,975       75                400   t,300   1,700   1,900   1,300
3. Nntevideo Distribution System
Pipelins                                                 2,90    It    667   2,233                          400    N40      200    400    400    700        250      150
NwQse Connections                                         1,900     7     437   1,463                       300     250      150    300    350      300      100    150
ater Reters & Other Installations                         1,800     7    414   1,386                        300     250    250      250    250    300        100     100
Subtotal (3)                                             6,600    25   t,518   5,082      77               1,000    900     600    950   1,000   1,300      450    400
4. adium-Size Cities
Pipelines                                                 1,200    5      274    924                                         100    250    250    350        150     100
s Cennections                                              500     2      115    385                                         50      50      100    tOO      100     100
Materw Rtors6lt&        Installatios                        400     2      92    308                                         50      50      100     10o    100
Subtotal t41                                              2,100    8      483    1617     77                                200    350    450    550        350     200
5. 0    11 Eqipot                                               3,400    13    792  2,619       77                200     200    500      700     700     700    400
6. Sppwt Eqipmnt                                                 500     2      115    395      77                                200     200      100
SUTOTAPL (B)                                                22,600    86  6,623  15,977      71         50   2,700  3,750   4,200   4,000   3,550   2,550   1,200      600
t- EIPSIN OF WI IEVIIIEO DI8TRIITIOK SYSl EI0                                 3    480     320      40         20    tOO      200      150    t50      100     s0
I- PTIuTII OF STIllS  VATERt AND tTTIII    IINPU
1. Iltionl P       n1990-95                                      400     2     132    26                                  100     100     100    100
2. Feasibility 9bies & hies                                      800    3      264    56                                  200    200    200    200
SI3tOTm. (DI                                                 1,200    5     3%      904      67                        300    300    300       300
US COST tMcWr   37W  ricsl                                        26,400   100   ,054  18,346       69        210  3,060   4,490   4,110   4,690   4,190   2,360   1,330    720
hysica  Cutimcin  (1OU                                             2,640           805   1,95       69         21     306     44      49      468    418    286       133      72
Price Contin ci                                                    1,650          503   1,147      69                 17      74     135    249      391     38      237    161
TAL PlECT c                                                       30,60          9,363  21,327      6         231   3,313   5,002   5,503   5,396   4,919  3,533   1,70t  ,i3
anrly Cot t2)                                                         100                                       1      11      16      18      19      16      12       &       3



ANN  6
-42-
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Obras Sonitorlos Del Estodo (OSE)
Organizotion Chart
BaWd
AdvbW
Nstwck               Labora~~U)Dtory  Supliftotlleon                          WorehoWe
R                                       _                              Ao
r   ,   ,   |   ,   r   |   |   |         r- Other  __    ,irtime
mud".                                     Trotningk                   Treaur
{H~~~~Cnsos                                                            M E   E   E   E  {
won I
WOld Bk- 31444:2



-43-
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
URUGUA
WATER SUPPLY REiABILITATION PROJECT
OSE - IDstitutional Overview
Present Situation                   Proposed
Lm2rovements
Institutional         Decentralized service under         The project includes
Arrangements        the Ministry of Public              review of OSE's
Works.  Its statute (Law            statute and the for-
11907 of 1952) constraints         mulation of propos-
Board and Managements's ef-         als to update it, so
forts to run the Company in         as to provide the
accordance with modern com-         company with suffi-
mercial and managerial prac-        cient stimulus and
tices. Personnel regulations        autonomy to operate
make it difficult to perform        according to econom-
required job restructurings         ically justified
and personnel reallocation.         state-of-the-art
The statutory distribution of       technologies and
profits among employees con-        practices which are
straints the resources for          attainable in Uru-
system expansion.  There is         guay.
no formal policy to introduce
tariff adjustments to compen-
sate for inflation.
Operations and        Unsatisfactory.  Insufficient       The project includes
Maintenance         maintenance budget, and over-       technical assistance
spending in maintaining obso-       for better organiz-
lete facilities in running          ing 0. and M. activ-
conditions.  Lack of of water       ities, the purchase
production metering.  Low           of vehicles and
personnel and equipment pro-        equipment, and the
ductivity.  Excessive person-       rehabilitation and
nel and poor planning of            replacement of de-
activities.  Insufficient and       teriorated or obso-
inadequate vehicles and             lete facilities.
equipment.
Commercial            Customer services need im-          The technical as-
Management          provement.  The registration        sistance will con-
and the installation of new         tribute to the in-
connections requires exces-         troduction of mar-
sive paper work and often          keting concepts
takes a long time.  Customers      which emphasize the
complaints and notifications        need to promptly and
of failures in the system are       adequately satisfy
handled with substantial de-        the customers'
lays.                               needs, and better
coordinate commer-
cial and 0. and M.
activities.



-44-
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
WATER SUPPLY             OPROJE
ose - Institutional Overview
Present Situation                  Proposed
Improvements
Customer Files        Satisfactory
Metering              90% of connections metered.        The project Includes
Consumption underestimated as      increased and im-
a result of some poorly cal-       proved metering.
ibrated and old meters. In-
adequate meters specifica-
tions for small consumers.
Meters read by OSE's staff.
Billing and          Computerized monthly bill-          The project would
Collection         ing.  Lenghtly process from         help improve proce-
meter reading to bill deliv-       dures and increase
ery to customers outside           collection.
Montevideo. Bill collection
only in OSE's offices and in
some designated places during
certain days of the month.
Collection of about 90% bill-
ing. Insufficient action to
collect accounts in arrears
from Government and public
entities.
Accounting           Detailed financial statements       The project includes
issued once a year with a          the updating and re-
long 4-5 months' lag.  The         vision of accounting
reports contain useful infor-      procedures and re-
mation on the performance of       porting so as to
regional offices.  Fixed           tailor them to the
assets revalued yearly.  The       users needs both in
reports are, however, not          timing and format.
tailored to the users needs.
Procurement and      Computerized inventory con-         Development of m8-
Inventory           trol.  An annual inventory is       terials and equip-
conducted.  Lack of specifi-       ment specifications
cations for principal mater-       to be carried out
ials and equipment.                under the project.



-45-
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY Y EHILIThTION PROJECT
051 - Institutional Overview
Present Situation                  Proposed
Improvements
Personnel            6,900.  Qualified but               Technical assistance
excessive.  Not functioning        will be provided to
classification, evaluation or      strengthen personnel
merit increase system.             policies and
Strong union.  No systematic       practices.  An
training.                          ongoing training
program will be
implemented.
Planning              In a transitional stage.           Project will support
The current five-year plan         current OSE's ef-
(1985-89) provides a good          forts to improve the
starting point in the design       planning system.
of a more desirable future
for OSE. The plan focuses on
improving performance in sev-
eral areas: operations, fi-
nancial, personnel, and proj-
ect preparation and execu-
tion.
Project
Preparation        Done by OSE's staff except in       Technical assistance
the case of some major proj-       will be provided to
ects.   Feasibility studies        improve criteria for
are being prepared under an        designing and exe-
IDB-financed project.  Proj-       cuting vorks.
ect design does not take suf-
ficiently into consideration
the conditions in the project
site and the operation and
maintenance requirements.
Project
Execution          Done by independent contrac-
tors.



-46-
AW  8
I. Ievel Of Crmhptlm per 111U:
Duetio                                    Ibivdeo and nte?ow            Resort Arm
0^5 tB M                                      OA2Mif                     0.U2^Wn-th
6 -10 DB                                      0./wmfth                   1.23/mnth
11-15 95                                      0.13 /10                  00.nM
16-20z                                        0.18 /D                   0.22/0
21-25 nO                                      0.21 / .0                 0.30/nO
26-3010                           o~~~~~~.2/no               0.33/u3
31-50 9O                                      0.37 / '0                  0.45/8D
over 50 '5                                    0.41 / ID                  0 /60
Ind1td1 & C _1mre
0-100D 0M 0.5                                                           0.78
s   1000 me                                   0.45/aD                   0.65/nO
Gove'm_ t & Pubio 
GoweTt                                         0.51/nO                   0.51/nO
Selwted Iibo   CoaLn1e                         0.64/0                    0.64/0
gpO,w taD@b,  0mn, port)
Na.mts    Omat1e                               1.94/mnt                  1.94/uDuth
II.  md Qii' (m=ULV)
Dmstf Io Idsfral and CamwiLal  GOwiuut ad Puio
cano  Dianeter 2d Intewco  Resrt Area  and Ihtoro Reort Ann   and Intewir                 bsort Aiw
12...              0.83        1.65           4.14     8a27            1.67           3.35
19..               1.24        2.49           6.18      12.35          2.50           5.00
25 amn             1.99        3.99           9.92      19.83          4.00           8.01
Ower 25 t          8.f        17.64          44.10     882O            17.W75        35.51
3. _____
varaea
PrIvate Cus==  : 5C% of vmter bM up to a mm    of W$$W452
publc CUta B  : 50% of later bm  up to a imin of WMT%.59
ixlC1s (.~ti)
Domsi           : UB30D8
Pubic           : 1BD54
ldustia         : U367m93 to UBO.60 depnI1Wan the 1p of in&wtry
O.  _ l    lm    (par oonti) : MO3.11
Nota  T1a, as of Juy 19B7.          raa ite D$0$1



WA'R SUPPY REHASUAR                PROJECT
Pro  Orgnfw  chaf
PISddod
I                        tOO~ftA1t
I                               - I                 I                               COOON
bd* DePOOMnta
*P-MIcotw                                     aeoc                              I              as
L_m_   _      _        __                _        ___ wow  _W___i
(4) Adff*OaMw                                                                                          Waft Ba*-S3iii:i
1!



-48-
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 4
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Cooperation
(Between OSE and the Twinning Institution)
Undertakings by the Twinning Institution
1.         Provide through its employees, technical cooperation to OS  in
systems operation and control as well as in the relations between OS and
its customers. The technical cooperation will also include the improvement
of the logistic and administrative systems required to support the above
activities, inter-alia, personnel, transportation, purchasing and inventory
management  and  accounting  and  information  systems.    The  technical
cooperation activities would take place both in Uruguay and in the
installations of the twinning institution.
2.        Provide on-the-job and formal training (courses, seminars,
workshops) in Montevideo, in the selected medium-size cities and in the
trinning city.
3.        Provide a permanent team in OSE for helping in planning,
programming and coordinating all project rel2ted activities.
4.          More specifically, the task to be carried out by the twinning
institutions under this agreement will be as follows:
Prepare, jointly with OSE, a study identifying the priority
activities in which significant improvements can be made in the
operations and their support systems, and ensuring that these
improvements are sustained over the long term. Proposed priority
activities identified on the basis of preliminary studies
conducted by OSE staff and consultants are:
A.        Operational Areas
1. Operations Control
-     Prepare standards and procedures to operate the system;
-     Design monitoring  indicators  and  the  information  system  to
control the operations;
-     Design a center to control the operations in Montevideo and in
the selected cities;
-     Plan medium and long-term operations needs; and
-     Train OSE employees to the new procedures.



-49-
ANNEX  10
Page 2 of 4
2. PitometrZ
Establish a pitometry program, organize the unit in charge of the
program, its staffing requirements and prepare the specifications
for the needed equipment; and
Train OE employees to operate the pitometry program.
3.Netering
Establish a production and consumption metering strateey, needs
and programs; and
Train the staff in the activity.
4. Rehabilitation of the Distribution Network
Define the criteria to replace branches;
Define specifications for materials and procedures to substitute
or rehabilitate a branch; and
Quantify, in Montevideo and selected cities, the pipes to sub-
stitute and to rehabilitate.
5. Reduction of Operating Costs
Special attention should be paid to the electromechanic equip-
ment, operations of treatment plants, and analysis of the power
tariffs in each selected city to identify possible reduction in
the power binls; and
Prepare programs to reduce operating costs.
6. Maintenance
Prepare corrective and preventive maintenance programs (produc-
tion, transmission, storage, distribution, electro-mechanical,
valves, vehicles, etc.) including analyses of in-house repair
vs. outside contracting; and
Train OSE staff in new maintenance procedures.
7. Consumer Relations
Prepare a program of consumer relations, education and resolution
of complaints;
Define optimum reading and billing cycles; and
Prepare a program for new customer promotions.



-50-
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 4
B.        Support Systems
1. Information and Financial Management System
Establish a system of management reports;
Establish  a  program  for better  utilization  of the existing
main-frame computer and define the number of microcomputers
needed to support the recommended information system; and
Establish timely and accurate financial reports and budget and
cash management control.
2. Purchases and Inventory
Prepare an inventory of all the material in use by OSE;
Analyse the national market for parts and materials required by
OSE, the import needs and recommend a purchasing strategy; and
Prepare a purchasing program with special emphasis in quality
control.
3. Training
Define a training program to provide OSE staff with the skills
and knowledge required to support the entity's institutional
rehabilitation and increased staff productivity programs.   The
training program should not be limited to meeting project related
training needs, but should also provide a continuous capability
to identify and meet human resources development requirements in
the future.



URUGUAY
WATtR SUPPLY RRHAEILITATION PROJECT
Technical Cooperation - Pirst 24-Month Action Plan
Activity                                                                                   Months
A. Operational Areas                               1- 3      4 -6      7 -9       10 -12      13 -15       16- 18      19 -21       22 -24
Macrometering and Pitometry
Establishment of a macro-metering and
pitometry system
Operation and maintenance of the system
Micrometering
Establishment of criteria for planning
and control
Establishment of criteria for designing
water connections
Replacement and improvement of existing
water connections
Upgrading the meter repair shop
Purchasing of equipment and materials
Meter installation and repair
Customer Services and Systeo Maintenance
Sectorization of customer services
Purchasing of equipment and materials
Preparation of uanuals
Personnel selection and twinning
Analysis of results
Sectorization of the Distribution System
Establishment of sector 1
Establishe nt of sector 2
Establishment of sector 3                                                                                                               "
Analysis of results                                                                       --
Billing and Collection                                                                                                                   0 w
Montevideo
Other cities
Purchasing ot equipment and materials



-52-
AN   11
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Iedium-Size Cities Tentatively Included in the Project
- Colonia
- Maldonado
- Mercedes
- Ninas
- Paysandu
- Rivera
- Salto
- Treinta y Tres



UMUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY RZIAULITATION PROJXCT
P?olect IaplnU&Ut&tlou Schbdule - Cumulativa Co@sletlon (S)
_        _mgp gt              1907       iE        190       t10        ImI        19"2       13        f9         1
1 2 3 4  1 2 3  4  1234  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3  4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4
1.talcmicalC&qU&Tralisq                        7  0 13 17 2e 223 Ve30 33       43 47  3 S 7  037073   IU n U    ESU  95 9 n n 61
2.f cht dlmllurdiiath                         13 A 233X 33 3    41 43 4 05153  50 3    U3  0.* 7173 7n 71U U         9 4 1 93 . .   1.
3- UILITATM U -   FUL SWtUM
1. IWah  of Apo Cwrrius Trr*tam Plot           1  9 17 25 3  43 5206 71 7n  n    93100
2. sitwigCWKity of TrinsIilstolnt.is              2 3  5 1   11 16 21 2 3 39 4   52 9 U n73 0 5 90   1
3 bmtwl hiulsrlbti.                              4 7 11U 17 20 22 25 26 2 3S 32 3 41 45 0 54 1 *t 1 7 n    n     U U   n5    9293  7   1
4. bila4zC lUU                                             ,111 72                              3 2t2en 4 U  4  50*1 7  72n 7 3 n 92 91I
L561 lipt                                         1  3 4    7 9 0 If 12 15 19 23 26 32 7 42 47 52 57 U3 0  73 2n     91 " 971*
. bowt 5p1Pt                                                           1 20 3   SO A r70 0 5 " *5 I1
C- Brow I    Un oT3ITiuI                         3  0 9 12 15 21 23 36 e 64  54 5  63  373 71 U 0 7 0    9n 9n 1*
t- omnmm w um nLmu uS =mzu  nom
t. _bt.   na 1991U"                                         0 13 1 25     U 3 4 6  U 530915   0 " Uto
L FmdUitt nIlips                                            * 131 n U25 St U 0SO s U a    7   U  941"



P2uYnkt 8*Isu  for IbJOr CMtTe
TaTlp DatOO (XaMWer)
Contrat                                                                    Deliwve-  rzLtlatlon
albs         Tyrs af    no. of    1Tj of DalmM*t   BidProp.   C=rat          of        of
C _y2mt                (MS 'OM0)    Contn#ts   Contraets   M&irg       B       tl1ibd    Situr       Goods  ____s
1. T%doca1 Coopmtim             1,5a)       Ssls           1      Otlbr       1-          _         5/87      -        6/17
2. Project Cooixtlon            300        Servies       I       Other-/   9/e7       10/87      12/87       -         /
B. RIblituatlra ofitr siwly d   st ue
i. *iter Trealzmt Plant         3,50D    59b0y/wo2         1-2     lB         2/8        4/8        7/        2/89     9/88
2. T_Jt  1Ym                    6,5M0      Sezvics/Voirts   1-2    lEB       11/87       1/%        4/88      6/i       5/"9/89  V
3. intwihso (Dist. 33st3)       6,300      9zlyIorkcs      4-7      1wIC     10/87      11/87     2/B-1/9D  3/82-9D 4/8&-3/90
4. Interior                     2,000      SUIY/VO2ii      3-6    ICB         8/89      12/89     1/90-1/93 2/9)2/93  3/9D-3/9T
5. 0 a ii tU1hut                3,900         3apY         3-6    LK/WIB  10/87-6/89  21/-9/89   4/"3/9D  5/84/90    -
C. htn.m  of Mmte,deso
Dlatrl1tuLi BEyth              800   rzWb/Voxt           2-4     IVWB    11/87        3/88        7/8J     10/88     9/88
D. P aepmtim of 1til Wtr Plan
1. Ytlmml Plan 199D)4995         400         Ssiewic       1-2     Ottb/    6/88         9/88       1/as       -        3/93
2. FeinbLlii   S Skule a Dg0aSm Ies                        1-2     Otthr t/    5/89      7/89      11/89       -       12/89
B/    C  eo                tn 06



-55-
ANNEX 14
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Limits on Types of Procurement
(US$'000)
Contract       Aggregate
Description           Value           Limit           Type of Procurement
Goods           >        200           -            ICB.
50-200          1,000          LCB.
50            200         Price quotations from
at least three quali-
fied bidders.
Civil Works            1,000           -           ICB.
200-1,000          5,000          LCB.
200            500         Price quotations from
at least three quali-
fied bidders.



-56-
ALit 15
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Allooatiou of Loan Proceeds
The proposed disbursement oategories, the allocation of loan funds and the
disbursement peroentages are as follows:
Amount of Loan Allooation
(Expressed in US            % Expenditures
Category              Dollars Equivalent)          to be linmnced
1. Civil Works                 7,600,000.00                   45%
2. Equipment and
materials                 10,000,000.00        100% of foreign expen-
ditures and 60% of
looal expenditures
3.  Training, supervision
of wo*ks and other
consulting services.       3,700,000.00                 100%
4.  Interest and other
Charges on the Loan        1,000,000.00        Amount due
TOTAL           S22,300,000.00
main.mammminmu



AhM     16
Pag I of 2
URUGUAY
VATER SUPPLY RERABILITATION PROJBCT-
Loan Disbursement Schedule
Quarterly
Bank Fiscal Year       Disbursement          Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending    (UsS millions)    (US llilliono)            of Total)
FY 1988
June 30, 1988                 2.0                2.0                 9.0
71 1989
September 30, 1988           0.2                 2.2                9.9
December 31, 1988             0.2                2.4               10.8
March 31, 1989                0.4                2.8               12.6
June 30, 1989                0.6                 3.4               15.2
pT 1990
September 30, 1989           0.8                4.2                18.8
Deoember 31, 1989             0.8                5.0               22.4
March 31, 1990                0.8                5.8               26.0
June 30, 1990                0.9                6.7                30.0
py 1991
September 30, 1990           0.9                7.6                34.1
December 31, 1990             1.2               8.8                39.5
March 31, 1991                1.5              10.3                46.2
June 30, 1991                 1.5              11.8                52.9
Pr 1992
September 30, 1991            1.2              13.0                58.3
December 31, 1991             1.0              14.0                62.8
March 31, 1992               0.8               14.8                66.4
June 30, 1992                0.8               15.6                70.0
PY 1993
September 30, 1992           0.8               16.4                73.5
December 31, 1992            0.8               17.2                77.1
Maich 31, 1993               0.6                17.8               79.8
June 30, 1993                0.6               18.4                82.5



-58-
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 2
PY 1994
September 30, 1993            0.6               19.0                 85.2
Deoember 31, 1993             0.5                19.5                87.4
March 31, 1994                0.5               20.0                 89.7
June 30, 1994                 0.5               20.5                 91.9
pY 1995
September 30, 1994            0.4               20.9                 93.7
December 31, 1994             0.3               21.2                 95.1
March 31, 1995                0.3               21.5                 96.4
June 30, 1995                 0.3               21.8                 97.8
PT t996
September 30, 1995            0.2               22.0                 98.6
December 31, 1.995            0.1               22.1                 99.1
March 31, 1996                0.1               22.2                 99.6
June 30, 1996                 0.1               22.3                100.0



-59-
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 3
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
083's Income Statement
(us$ million) 1/
1983       1984        1985       1986 2
(Audited) (Audited) (Aud-ited) (Au-dit;
Water Revenues                      25.50      24.21       30.18      41.99
Sewerage Revenues                    1.36       1.30        1.58       2.30
Connection Fees                      1.07       1.01        1.12       0.93
Other                                2.10       1.68        1.40       1.78
Operating Revenues               30.03       28.20       34.28      47.00
Personnel                           10.81      10.67       17.15      23.20
Chemioal                             1.62       1.56        1.58        1.86
Power                                4.03       4,05        4.34       5.87
Materials, Fuel and Oil              1.97       2.19        1.79       2.41
Private Contractors                  0.31       0.58        0.32       0.74
Other Expenditures and Taxes        3.53        2.92        2.25       3.04
Losses on Receivables 1-                         -          0.25       0.40
Operating Costs                 22.27       21.97       27.68      37.52
Inoome Before Depreciation       7.76        6.23       6.60        9.48
Depreoiation                         6.93       6.59        6.11       7.27
Operating Inoome                 0.83       (0.36)      0.49        2.21
Interest Expenses                  (0.07)      (0.44)      (0.17)     (0.18)
Interest Earned                     2.00        2.25        2.17       2.90
Foreign Exohange Losses             (0.96)     (3.49)      (2.50)       -
Other                               0.52        1.75         -          -
Net Income                       2.32       (0.29)      (0.01)      4.93
=====on#"   =as=--      ==s-ma     msm===
1/  Exohange rates:             Year         Average      Year-end
(N* - US$)
1983         34.54          42.73
1984         56.12          74.25
1985        101.43         124.95
1986        151.96         178.24
2/ Tariffs, revenues and costs in 1986 inoreased roughly in line with
domestio inflation. The translation to dollars results in signifioant
increases over 1985 beoause of the differential between domestio infla-
tion (71% from January to December 1986) and the variation in the
exchange rate (45%).



-60-
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 3
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
OSE's Balanoe Sheet
(US$ million)
1983       1984       1985        1986 1/
(Audited) (Audited) (Audited) (iu-ditid-
Fixed Assets                      304.28     283.44      288.34     359.07
Accumulated Depreciation          i53.50     140.68      144.62     190.75
Net Fixed Assets                150.78     142.76      143.72     168.32
Work in Progress                    6.89      10.04       14.71      21.41
Cash                                4.80       4.10        5.07       6.62
Acounts Receivable                 9.55       6.39        9.01      10.50
Provision for Bad Debts 1/         (2.82)     (0.30)      (0.39)     (0.61)
Inventory                          12.99       9.29        9.09       7.29
Total Current Assets             24.52      19.48       22.78      23.80
Total Assets                 182.19     172.28     181.21      213.53
11110= 32210   mo ==  3  M1M1     magnu ms
Long-term Debt                      2.84       3.58        3.30       2.64
Aooounts Payable                    7.15       6.81       10.41       8.91
Long-term Debt - Current
Portion                           1.03       0.95        0.86       0.94
Other                               0.98       0.56       0.45        0.55
Totgal Current L9nbltvo                   8.32       11.72      10.40
Total Liabilities             12.00      11.90      15.02       13.04
Equity                       170.19     160.38     166.19      200.49
Total Equity and
Liabilities                182.19     172.28     181.21      213.53
1/ OSE Is currently reviewing the net realizable value of aaeounts reeeiv-
able. The provision for bad debts would be adjusted accordingly.



-61-
ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 3
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
OSE's Cash Flow Statement
(Uss million)
1984       1985        1986
(Non-audited)
Inoome before Depreoiation                      6.23        6.60       9.48
Interest earned and other
non-operating inoome                          4.00        2.17       2.90
Internal Cash Generation                       10.23        8.77      12.38
Amortisation                                    1.03        0.95       0.86
Interest expense                                0.44        0.17       0.18
Total Debt Service Needs                      1.47        1.12       1.04
Working Capital Needs                          (3.50)      (1.07)      0.79
Contribution to Investment                   12.26        8.72      10.55
Investments - water                            12.50       11.70
Investments - sewerage                          0.70        0.10
Investments - customers                          -           -
Investments - other                             0.50         -
Total Investment Costs                       13.'0       11.80      12.40
Required Financing                              1.44        3.08        1.85
Loans                                                       0.58       0.28
Government Contribution                          -          3.47       3.12
-Locally Financed                                NA          NA         NA
-IDB Financed                                    NA          NA         NA
Total Financing                               2.14        4.05       3.40
Change in cash                                  0.70        0.97       1.55



URUGUY
WATER SUPPLY  RMAIITION  PROJECT
OSZ'8 law".st&tint
(US$ Million)
<  AJCTUAL     ->< - - -- - - - -- - - - ECTED -                                    --                  - -
195       1936       1937       199       1999       190        191        Im        193        19         19
INCKIE STATEN
EATER EVES                                                          30.18     41."       47.37      49.82     51.43      52.88      55.03      57.95     61.01      64.21      67.56
SENEIUGE REVERS                                                      1.59      2.30       2.n        2.61      2.73       2.99       3.10       3.35      3.62       3.91       4.21
COEIN FEES                                                           1.12      0.93       0.06       0.04      0.03       0.03       0.03       0.03      0.03       0.04       0.04
EC10TIN FEES5  OTfiA                                                1.40       M.79      2.27       2.38      2.46       2.53       2.6.       2.77      2.92       3.07       3.23
LOSEOS  N REMEIVADES                                               -0.25      -0.40      -3.13      -3.62      -3.40     -3.21      -3.04     -2.98      -2.70      -2.49      -2.25
WERtATIS REVEES                                                     34.03     46.60      49.05      51.23     53.25      55.12      57.75      61.22     64.88      68.73      72.78
PERSIEII   COSTS                                                    17.15     23.20      24.32      24.96     25.14      25.07      25.65      26.11     27.33      27.86      28.65
CUENICAL COSTS                                                       1.58      I.86       I.9        1.93       1.62      1.79       1.79       1.82       1.82      1.82       1.63
PER COSTS                                                           4.34       5.97       6.62       6.5       4.96       6.93       6.9        7.25      7.52       7.90       7.93
IATERIALS,FUEL AIN OIL                                              1.79       2.41       2.70       2.98      3.17       3.42       3.59       3.97      4.22       4.5.       4.77
PRIVATE CINTRCTORS                                                  0.32       0.74       0S3        0.91      0.99       1.07       1.17       1.29      1.39       1.49       1.57
UTNER EIPEUDITURES MIM TAXES                                         2.25      3.04       3.40       3.76      3.92       4.23       4.40       4.56      5.20       5.58       5.87
TOTAL OERAtTINB COST                                                27.43     37.12      39.76      41.28     41.9       42.50      43.60      45.36     47.49      49.09      50.62
ICINE SEFORE  PRECIATION                                            6.60       9.48       9.29       9.95     11.27      12.62      14.15      15.95     17.39      19.64      22.17
IEPRECIATI. 6.11                                                               7.27       7.70       9.43      8.80       9.13       9.54      16.16      10.97     11.91      12.69
WERATINB INCOME                                                     0.49       2.21       1.59       1.53      2.47       3.48       4.61       5.68      6.42       7.83       9.40
INTRS EPEIISES                                                      0.17       0.19       0.         0.34      0.51       0.75       1.02       1.20      1.29       1.29       1.23
INTEREST EARNED ON INVESTMENTS                                      2.17       2.90       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
FOREIGN EICHSE LOSSES                                                2.50      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
NEt IICOME                                                          -0.01      4.93       1.41       1.19       1.97      2.74       3.60       4.4        5.14      6.54       8.25
NOIN6 RAitl                                                         90.611    79.6?      81.063    90.57      75.84?     77.11?     75.49?     74.121    73.19?     71.43      69.54 
OPERATIN6 RATIO                                                     98.56?    95.26?     96.76t     97.02?    95.36?     93.681     92.01?     9.72?      90.10?    98.61?     86.9 
RATE OF RETURN (t                                                   0.34       1.42       0.07       0.76      1.19       1.62       2.09       2.41      2.51       2.64       3.19       g
.__s.     r%....X_* ....... +*ss* .s     .* ^*s *s ......................... _+  ......   __ ............................................_. 



VAT, SUPPU                nD           O3UCT
OSI'e Ualaee. Sbhet
(1LA  uilt )
__-- --    -r                                                    -
1965       198        193        1t         198        1990        199        1992       399        1.'         196
Fl 9ETS                                                               26.4         9.01     411.00     431.62     447.99 476             436         27.83     119.13      "L.       W.15
5033*1  IWCITIEN                                                     144.12      110.75     212.76     2L.44      234        24.9        21311      2mu4       303        3L.6       39.
UT FtED 45ETS                                                         143.72     11432      19.24      201.1!     211.50     217.35      22L45      24.5       265.           32     3W7.2
on N11 Plllll                                                          14.71      21.41       0.41        .3        9.13       3L93       2i.01      29.87      30.9       3L4         3L.
com                                                                    5.07         .12       3.11       3.71       9.10       7.49       649         5.31       4.4        4.36       2.93
mt        KuEI "  swims                                                9.01       10.0       13.24      13.03      13.31       12.66      12.03      12.75      13.51      14.32       11
PUPSU  FOR       13 KM                                                -0.39       -0.61
KMe                                                                    9.9        7.29        9.00      3.0o       10.00       9.8        9.1         L85        L17        7.79       L3.
TAT  OJuT *6513                                                       22.78       23.N       2535       27."0      32."9      29.71       2.39       26.76      26.14      26.47       2.51
TOT. METS                                                             181.21     213.53     232.06     242.71     254.12     26.03       282.5      301.93     322.2      3527        39.3
U   MlN NIT, TUIT                                                      4.16        3.3       2L.7        4.4        7.57       10."       14.57      2I.t0      27.4       34.9       40.3
LIE noE uET, m T  POITE                                                0.u6        0."        03         0.35       0.35       0.20        I.E        1.3        1.6        1.6         1.76
TOTAL LE  TEEN LII3UTIS                                                3.30        2.14       2.3        4.13       7.22       10.74      12.9       19.30      2.06       32.66       349
hUII PAIFIIK                                                          10.41        3.91       9.00       4.43       4.47       5.30         .4O       552        5.65       5.34         .07
LUlml TMIE  KT,  ai ENTPTN                                             0.86        0."        0.39       0.35       0.35       0.20        1.E        1.w        1.3        I.U         1.76
OMR ClI'T LIAILTIES                                                    0.45        0.55       0.59       0.11       0.62       0.63        0.5        0.67       0.70       0.73       0.71
MALT  QWEJIT LIAILITIES                                                11.72      10.40       8.93       5.39       5.44       1.13        7.92       6.T7       8.23       L.4         LS
TMALU LIAILITIES                                                       15.02      13.04      11.37       9.52      12.66       16.67      20.61      27.37      34.29      41.09       47.17
EMllY                                                                 16619      200.4      220.19     23L11      241.46     249.16      22.24      274.11     21.32      304.1       322.32
TMT.L 0I1T1 ME LNILITI                                                181.21     213.53     232.06     242.7t     254.12     266.03      22.15      301.98     322.62     3527        39.50 
IEPTIDEBTIEIUITY) IUT7                                                  1.9        1.3M       L.on       1.7m       2.M0        MU3        4.2        6.         3.2n       9.         10.69
Cl  TIIO                                                          1.94        2.29       2.82       5.12       1.07       4.65        3.1        3.32       3.1        3.13        3.09



WATn SMUPLT RMUMiLTATION IKOZECT
0SIIPPS cat      &   tmt
(US$ miion)
:-
1ms5      193        117w       19U        199        199        19I        1992       19         14   - 95
CM FLOE STAMMUIT
IC1    PE UECIATIU                                                   6.40       9.48       9.29       9.95      11.27      12.62      14.1U     1.5        17.39      t9.64      22.17
INTEES   U 11W. N  OMeR NWERATI  1NC11                               2.17       2.91       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.9        1.
INTE. CMII  ITI                                                      6.77       12.38      9.29       9.5       11.2       12.42      14.15       L5.5      17.39     t1.64       22.1
UTizATION                                                             0.95      0.66       0."        0.39       0.35       0.35       0.20       t.u        I.1        I.E        1.w
lNTEsT E9IE                                                          0.17       0.13       0.16       0.34       0.51       0.75       1.02       1.20       1.29       1.29       1.23
WTO    IIBT ERYICE                                                    1.12       1.04       1.12      0.73       0.86       1.10       1.22       3.06       3.17       3.17       31l
MIII CWITUL NM                                                      -1.07      0.79       t.4        5.17      -0.56      -1.74      -2.15      -0.65       0.12       0.22       1.23
CONlRIUTI0 TO IsIET                                                   5.72      10.55       1.6?      4.05       10.97     13.2t      15.06      13.42      14.11      IL25       17.73
IWVESTENT COST, kW  PJICT                                                                  0.23       3.37       4.75       5.17       5.63       5.03       3.65       1.2        O.1
IINIESTET CST, PAS SEWERING                                                                5.65       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.91
IPE    eNN COST, NTM  PIIITTI1                                                             0.55       1.50       1.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.91       0.91
INESTIET0 CST, STER TNISSIU                                                                2.32       1.00       1.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.91
INVEIIST  COST, "TR OISIRIIuTnI                                                            0.76       2.00       2.50       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
IlEIITtl CST, SEIEE                                                                        1.09       3.00       2.50       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.91       0.oe
IVBESIEUT COST, 0. MD R. EDUIIPIENT                                                        1.45       2.00       1.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.e0
IIIESTEIIT CST, TO    DET 1E D                                                             0.00       0.00       0.00      17.00      17.00       LOe       20.00      23.00      26.9e
TMTAL INESTET COSTS                                                  11.80      12.40      12.05      12.07      2.75     22.17      22.83      23.03      23.65      24.32      26.U
RE1IRED FlINA'll                                                      3.06       1.85      10.34      6.52       1.7S       8.91       7.75       9.61       9.54       3.57       9.eo
DISDITS, 18RI LUIN                                                    0.00      0.00       0.14       2.0        3.44       3.n        3.33       3.49       2.64       1.47       0.71
DISIEN, SUPIERS CREDIT                                               0.58       0.28       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0o.0
DISSlESEEIITS, LUl  TO IWETIFY                                        0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       5.00       6.00       7.00       7.00
TOTAL LUD                                                            0.58       0.26       0.14       2.09       3.44       3.72       3.83       8.49       9.64       3.47       7.71
UTOUtS   CoNTRI3TO                                                                         2.79       3.27
UVNERlIIET CORII TNIOS                                               3.47       3.12
-LOCALLY FINAN                                                                              1.92      1.12       1.25
-I8 FINOWED                                                                                2.00       3.00       3.00       3.00       2.91
TOTAL FIKIIS                                                         4.05       3.0        6.65       9.48       7.69       6.7        6.74       8.4?       8.64       B.47       7.7J
CHlE 1 CASK                                                           0.97       1.55      -3.51      0.65       5.92      -2.19      -1.01      -1.12      -o.9       -0.10      -1.37
OUT SERNICE RATIO                                                     7.33      11.90      3.31      13.57      13.17      11.49      11.61       5.14       5.4        6.20       7.13      *
PERCNT COTRIIITION To IllEStlENT                                     73.90?    15.081      14.002    31.45:      6.0n      59.822     66.07      5.26?      5Y.651     65.48%     66.91



VAXZR SUP?Y IZAIIAINPROJECT
083t. Nesitgz1na !ndi*Ator
(U8$ lil1on)
m_            -                                        --- ----   PUaCT                --      _     __       __ 
1915       193         1917       198         199        1990       191         1992        19         199         195
min nmss
vorkat
late  Enucuems oW-aId (000)
twiba                                                                  254.60     262.10      274.60     27.30       28310      2.90        299.50     302.10      05.0       39.30       311.40
Oeu  Cities                                                            235.40     253L.      257.90      270.10      275.30     274.60     279.9       286.30      29270      29.10       307.00
tw e     ni (.3 mlii)
Umtaid.                                                               U.70        91.20      ss.         96.50      S9.20      1O0."       103.50     104.60      106.00     107.30      100.00
Ohew   tUn                                                            34.20       34.92      3644        39.93      41.26       40.06      41.00       42.22      43.54       44.76      46.3
kW          CmAttes  W-Wad (000)                                        90.50       91.0        93.00      9.O        100.00     105.00      110.00     115.00      120.00     125.00      130.00
ftfttiiu ad  yst. ad Staff Effliciu
ker prdd  (b3 dllil)
luA Sw                                                                133.50     144.10      144.20     146.21     146.57      147.68      14.77        5.56      145.21     145.00      144.00
Uh. cUins                                                             66.20       66.10      71.45       76.79       7.54       74.22      r4.21       74.06      75.06       75.86      77.63
Vabtr odIAtew Prod.u  (2)
NWAaiud                                                               66.44       63.29       65.00      66.00      67.00       69.00      71.00       72.00      73.00       74.00       75.0
oWr  Itiin                                                            50.15s      52.53      51.00       52.00      53.00       54.00      56.00       57.00      55.00       59.00      10.00
Saff Efficiaty
Total EW1,e  1w-a   lb.)                                            6349.00    6300.00    6900.00    6750.00    66.00    65.00  6400.00    6150.00    6000.00    530.00    5700.00
EIesIIO   it.' CAKtiuS  1ur-r                                                     13.03       13.04      12.41      12.06       11.58      11.12       10.67      t0.24        9.92       9.41
Naw/23 aitd (cmut 1967 INI                                              0.24        0.37       0.35        03         0.33        0.35       0.33        0.39       0.38        0.38       0.38
CoutI3 sld. Icztant ISll Us 41                                          0.21        0.31       0.30        0.30       0.29        0.29       0.29        0.28       0.29        0.27       0.27
PnM_1 cutlU3 3o1 Ccostt 1937 US *)                                      0.13        0.20       0.13        0.19       0.17        0.17       0.17        0.16       0.           .16       0.15
Parumul Cut oam  Total Cratinl  Cot (t)                                62.52       62.50      61.16       60.46      59.10       56.97      50.34       57.69      57.36       56.75      56.60
tkiq tbUo Lqaratnl  cost mw  raw..,)                                    0.61        0.90       0.61        0.31       0.79        0.77       0.75        0.74       0.73        0.71       0.70
ate of htua . h  lwd Fisld buts (U                                      0.34        1.42       0.37        0.76       1.1U        1.62       2.06        2.41       2.51        2.64       3.19
Cuatrihstlic to 1nwett  (t)                                             0.74        0.65       0.14        0.31       0.36        0.60       0.66        0.58       0.60        0.6S       0.66
kct_s Rci.wahl aw -        al  Ibtly Sal"                               3.13o       2.70       3.24        3.24       3.00        2.76       L50         2.50       2.50        2.50       2.50
Iastints (cemtac t 19M  US6. il1)                                      11.03       13.19      12.05       12.62      12.30       21.31      21.46       20.9       20.75       21.04      22.00
Swap ba_a   lfais"   a tU2                                             -0.01        0.06       0.06        0.02       0.01        0.01       0.02        0.03       0.03        0.03       0.03



-66-
ANNEX 19
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Minimum Performance Targets
YEAR
Performance Area
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Personnel costs as a
percentage of
operating costs          60.0    60.0    59.0    59.0    58.0    58.0    57.0    57.0
Working ratio (Z)           81.0    79.0    77.0    76.0    74.0    73.0    71.0    70.0
Connections with working
meters (%)               88.0    89.0    90.0    93.0    93.0    94.0    94.0    94.0
Current ratio                2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5



URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABT ITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)
Umteidmn o-      l u_ tal Vals                                                      Uhole Project -  Irstruntal Values
Yeur     atw   Capital  0 & U    Total   Total Not Cash                             Yer    lter   Capital  0 & N    Total   Total  Nit Cash
Billed  Costs    Costs   Costs Revuus   Flow                                        Bill    Costs   Csts   Cots Rnmu   Flo
1987       0.0     201      (470)    (277)      0      277                            1917     0.0      231        0      231       0      (231)
l1        0.5    2,871      (621)   2,250     164  (2,094)                            19       0.5    3,3       (401)   2,965      164   (2,902)
199        0.0   4,020  (1,263)   2,757        (4)  (2,761)                           IM       0.0    4,748   (1,18)   3,561        (43  (3,565)
M99O      0.0   4,337   11,934)   2,402         0   (2,402)                           19       0.3    5,173   (1,9)   3,221        131   (3,069)
19l        1.6   4,778   (2,347)   2,431      490   (1,940)                           199l    2.4    5,828  (2,527)   3,301       7      12,517)
1992      2.8   3,992    2,728)   1,253       873    (380)                            1M       4.2   5,027   (3,0493   1,978    1,363      (615)
1993      4.0   2,792   (3,117)    (325)   1,254    1,579                             1993    6.0    3,649   (3,592)      56    1,910    1,953
1994      5.3    1,343   (3,535)  (2,192)   1,644   3,9836                            14       8.1   1,817  (4,144)  (2,327)   2,557    4,994
1995      6.0    1,784   14,011)  (2,227)   1,9861    4,907                           1995     9.7   2,319   (4,18)  (2,438)   3,043    5,481
1996      7.3    1,170   (3,933   (2,763)   2,250   5,012                             1996    13.3    1,460   (4,631)  13,171)   3,54    6,715
1997      8.0   1,170   (3,905)  (2,735)   2,459    5,195                             1997    12.4   1,460   (4,534)  (3,074)   3,902   6,975
1998      B.7    1,170   (3,978)  (2,706)   2,675   5,383                             1999    13.5    1,460   (4,435)  (2,975)   4,22    7,227
199       9.4    1,170   (3,8511  (2,6611   2,891    5,572                            199    14.6   1,460   (4,335)  (2,875)  4,602    7,478
2000      10.7   1,170   (3,771)   2,601)  3,m       5,893                            2000    16.4    1,460   (4,210)  (2,750)  5,151    7,90l
2001      11.9   1,170   (3,698)  (2,526)   3,6S    6,194                             2001    18.0    1,460   (4,08)  (2,621)   5,6    8,282
2002      13.1    1,170   (3,626   (2,456)   4,038    6,494                           202    19.7   1,460   (3,960)  (2,500)   6,185    8,6
2003      14.3    I1,70  (3,554)  (2,384)   4,411    6,795                            2003   21.4   1,460   (3,839)  (2,379)   6615   9,065
2004      15.5   1,170   (3,482)  (2,312)   4,7M    ;o09n                             2004    23.1    1,460O  (3713)  (2,253)  7,216   9,469
2005      16.7   1,170  (3,4111  (2,241)   5,157    7,399                             2005    24.8    1,460   (3,587)  (2,1271  7,747    9,873
2006      11.0   1,170  (3,37B)  (2,206)   5,531    7,739                             2006   26.5   1,460   (3,452)  (1,992)  9,281  10,M
2007      19.2   1,170   (3,306)  (2,138)   5,904   9,042                             2007    20.2   1,460   (3,327)  (1,867)   8,910   10,677
2008      20.4   1,170  (3,239)  (2,069)   6,277    8,345                             2008    29.9   1,460   (3,202)  (1,7421  9,341   11,63
2009     21.6    1,170   (3,169)  (1,999)   6,650   8,649                             2009    31.6    1,U40   (3,076)  (,68)   9,871   11,49
2010      22.9   1,170   (3,101)  (1,931)   7,023    9,953                            2010   33.4    1,460   12,9541  (,494)  10,402   11,896
2011     24.0    1,170   43,032)  (1,862)   7,396   9,258                             2011    35.0    1,460   (2,8371  (1t,377  10,903   12,279
in          26.1?                                                                   IIR          25.0       -
o .o
ater billed is give. in million v3tyr
All other colus ae in thoad MS



-68-
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 5
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Assumptions of IRR Calculations
(1) Incremental costs and benefits were calculated by deducting
"without-projectt  values from "with project" values.
(2) Capital costs include: project costs (as detailed in Annex 5)
and, starting in 1995, replacement costs of equipment and
vehicles having an average life of 10 years.
(3) 0 & N costs include: personnel, chemicals, power, materials and
other costs.
(4)  Personnel costs were calculated from the number of employees and
an average remuneration of US$3550/yr, which was estimated to
grow at 1% per year.  OSE's personnel reduction "with project"
was estimated at about 20%.
(5) Cost of chemicals was taken at 0.01 US$ per m3 of water produced.
(6) Cost of power was taken at 0.03 US$ per m3 of water produced.
(7) Cost of materials including fuel, oil and others was taken at
US$13 per connection.
(8)  Revenues  include:  water sales and other revenues.   For the
purpose of economic evaluation, only 90% of the incremental
revenues were taken into account as representing project
benefits. The remaining 10% was assumed to correspond to water
already being consumed, although not paid for.
(9) Water sales were based on a uniform tariff of US$0.33 per m7 of
water billed.
(10) Other revenues were calculated at US$4 per connection plus US$3
per new connection.
(11) Number of connections as well as population served by the
project, are shown on Page 3 of this Annex.
(12) System efficiency, i.e. water billed as percentage of water
produced, was assumed to increase if project is implemented, and
to decrease if project is not implemented (see diagram on Page 4
of this Annex.)
Results of IR' Calculations
For entire Project :  25%
For Montevideo only:   26%



URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHAILITATION PROJECT
Population Served and No. of Connections
Year  Population Served, thousnd ihab.  ft. of Cnectioa, thont          ft. of kew Cunectims, thous
Nottwiduo Interior   Total      F.tvuidu, Interior   Total       Nhutniduo Interior   Total
1997    1,395.0  360.6 1,77S.6             276.6   91.4  375.0
1999    1,414.1  3B7.9 1,602.0             27.    102.1  361.9               3.2    3.7    6.9
1969    1,422.9   395.7 1,1BB.6            283.1   103.7  396.8              3.2    1.6    4.9
1990(1)  1,476.7  404.2 1,180.9            293.8  110.3  404.1               10.7    6.6    17.3
1I91    1,501.9  411.2 1,913.1             26.5   114.3  412.8               4.7    4.0    6.7
1M      1,523.2   417.6 1,941.0            302.1    11t   420.1               3.6    3.7    7.3
193     1,542.   424.6 1,967.3             305.7   121.4  427.1              3.6    3.4    7.0
1994    1,557.9   431.5 1,969.5            309.3  124.1   433.4              3.7    2.7    6.4
1995    1,570.0  439.1 2,009.1             311.4   129.4  439.8               2.1    4.3    6.4
16      1,593.2  446.3 2,029.6             315.0  130.8  445.9                3.6    2.4    6.0
1997    1,596.6  453.7 2,050.3             317.0   134.9  451.9               2.0    4.1    6.1
1M      1,610.1   461.8 2,071.9            319.0   139.1  456.1               2.0    4.2    6.2
M       1,623.7  469.4 2,093.1             321.1  143.4   464.5               2.0    4.3    6.3
2000    1,635.7  477.3 2,112.9             324.3  145.1   469.9               3.7    1.7    5.4
2001    1,647.9  485.4 2,133.3             329.3  147.6  475.9                3.5    2.5    6.0
2002    1,660.2  494.2 2,154.4             331.8  150.1   41.9                3.5    2.5    6.0
2003    1,672.6  502.7 2,175.2             335.3  152.6  467.9                3.5    2.5    6.0
2004    1,666.9  511.7 2,199.5             336.6  155.1  493.9                3.5    2.5    6.0
2005    1,699.3   520.5 2,219.8            342.3  157.6  49.9                 3.5    2.5    6.0
2006    1,712.1   529.6 2,241.6            345.8  160.1  505L9                3.5    2L5     6.0
2007    1,723.2  539.4 2,262.6             349.3  162.6  511.9                3.5    2.5    6.0
2009    1,736.1   549.9 2,235.0            352.6  165.1  517.9                3.5    2.5    6.0
2009    1,747.3  559.1 2,306.              356.3   167.6  523.9               3.5    2.5    6.0
2010    1,756.6  568.9 2,327.4             359.8  170.1   529.9               3.5    2.5    6.0
2011    1,769.9   569.0 2,339.0            363.3  172.6  533.9                3.5    2.5    6.0
(a) Ih sharp inKrease in no. of canuections and populatim sered is                                                      w
dut to the incorpwation of new service areas in 0ont.iduo in 190.                                                    0  o



URUGUAY
VATER SUPPLY RUABILITATION PROJICT
WATER SYSTEM EFFICIENCY
loo               Water biled as % of water produced
90 
.ontemdeo w/o Projecto75ct
3'  70-
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |                           . x --x   i( ) 657
E   60 -                                      f~'~~~-^~---a  _*___   ,___i6070
50 -
50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .   ..:......       .....       ..;.,...;.   ............... ......  45%
40 - Interior with Project
Inlerior w/o Project
30o 00
1987 198 1 989 1990 1991  1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
Years



URUGUAY
WATE1 SUPPLY RP1ABILTTATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Sensitivity Tests on IRR
insitivity Tnts -           hIgt6widoo                                              Susitiwity Tests -         EUtire Project
lter                    Capital                     PumeI                           btin                    Capital
Tariff                     Costs                         Costs                       Tariff                     Costs                         Costs
(SImI3    tRR            (ratiol     IRR               (ratio)     11113               e3)    in IRratio)                 IRR               (ratio)     in1
0.33   26.12                 1    26.1?                    1    26.1?                0.33   25.01                 1    25.0t                    1    25.01
0.3   25.21              1.05    24.51                 1.05    17.51                 0.3   24.01              1.05    23.61                 1.05    16.3?
0.27   24.4?               1.1    23.0?                 1.06    16.31                0.27   23.11               1.1    22.41                 1.06    15.61
0.24   23.5              1.15    21.71                 1.07   15I.                 0.24   22.1?              1.15    21.3?                 1.07    14.4?
0.21   22.51               1.2    20.52                 1.08    14.0?                0.21   21.01               1.2    20.21                 1.0      13.41
1.25    19.41                 1.09    13.01                                          1.25    19.3?                 1.09    12.41
1.3    18.41                  1.1    12.11                                           1.3    184?                   1.1    11.4?
14.0?                  . IIR v. System Efficiency                                                            IRI vs. Syste  Efficiecy
13.0t
12.1?                            W/o Projet                                                                           Wo Projet
with Project     65    62.5       60    57.5       55                                uith Projct      65    62.5       60    57.5       55
65                20.91   21.1?   21.21   21.4t   21.6?                              65                21.3%   21.4?   21.5t   21.71   21.01
67.5                22.11   22.3?   22.51   22.7?   22.9?                            47.5                22.21   22.3?   22.5?   22.6?   22.8?
70               23.3?   23.51   23.8?   24.0?   24.21                               70                23.0?   23.2?   23.3?   23.5?   23.61 
72.5               24.51   24.7?   24.9?   25.21   25.4?                             72.5                23.9?   24.0?   24.21   24.3?   24.5t              (II
75               25.6?   25.9?   26.1?   26.3%   26.6?                               75                24.7?   24.9?   25O.   25.11   25.31
77.5               26.7?   27.0    27.21   27.51   27.7?                             77.5                25.4?   25.6?   25.n    25.91   26.1?              'I%
80               27.8?   28.0?   28.3?   2B.?   23.91                                80                26.1?   26.3?   26.51   26.n    26.8?               0   0
U'



-72-                    ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 3
URUG UAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
List of Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Piles
A.    Sector Report and Studies
1)    Uruguay - Water Supply and Sanitation Study - Cooperative
Program Pan American Health Organization/World Bank (April
1979).
2)    Saneamiento Urbano de Montevideo.  Estudio sobre el Sistema de
Alcantarillado del Departamento de Montevideo - Intendencia
Municipal de Montevideo/Camp Dresser and McKee (March 1986).
3)    Uruguay - Plan Preliminar de Obras de Saneamiento para la
Poblaci6n del Interior del Pais, 1981-90 - OSE (Undated).
4)   Plan Quinquenal de la Administraci6n de las obras Sanitarias
del Estado 1985-1989 - OSE (January 1986).
5)   Plan Preliminar de Obras de Saneamiento de Interior - Adolfo
Cutinella, OSE (December 1980).
6)    Proyecto de Cooperacion T'ecnica al BID para el Programa de
Abastecimiento de Agua Potable y Disposicion de Exeretas a
Localidades Rurales Menores de 1000 habitantes (July 1983).
7)    Municipal Works National Plan - Project Report BID (April
1984).
B.   Project Related Reports and Documentation
1)    Proposal of consulting services for 1988-89 - SANEPAR
2)    Desarrollo Institucional de OSBE - OSE/OPS (June 1986).
3)    Proyecto de Mejoramiento y Rehabilitaci6n de los Servicios de
Agua Potable de OSE a financiar por el BIRF - OSE (February
1986).
4)   Proyecto de Mejoramiento y Rehabilitaci'n de los Servicios de
Agua Potable de OSE a Financiar por el BIRF. Project
Preparation Facility - PPF. Gilberto Meirelles Menezes,
OPS/OMS (April 1986).
5)    Informe de Visitas de Tecnicos de OS   a SANEPAR (May 1986).
6)    Planejamento Preliminar dos Acoes para os 24 Meses do Programa
de Desenvolvimento Institucional de OS - SANEPAR (August
1987).



-73-                   ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 3
7)    Informe de MisiSn - Gilberto Neirelles de Menezes - OPS/OMS
(two parts, November 1985).
8)    Proyecto de Mejoramiento y Rehabilitaci6n de los Servicios de
OSE a Financiar por el BIRF - OSE (undated).
9)    Informes de Consultor:  Parte I - Distribucion de Agua
Montevideo; Parte II - Suministro de Agua al Interior en el
Uruguay; J. Tomas (November 1983).
10)    Ampliaci6n de Redes de Alcantarillado en las Ciudades de
Tacuarembo, Melo, Colonia y Artigas - Plan Nacional de Obras
Sanitarias (Undated).
11)    Mejora del Rendimiento del Sistema de Agua de Montevideo.
Diagnostico y Plan de Mejora (July 1985).
12)    Sistema Productor de Aguas Corrientes. Anteproyecto de
Ampliaci6n y Mejoras. Marcial Gil (February 1987).
13)    Montevideo Water Supply.  Aguas Corrientes Treatment Plant -
Emanuel Idelovitch (April 1987).
14)    Montevideo Water Supply Rehabilitation of 2nd and 3rd Water
Mains. Feasibility Study Report - VIAK (May 1987).
15)    Monterideo Water Supply Rehabilitation of 2nd and 3rd Water
Mains. Feasibility Study Report - VIAK (Revised July 1987).
16)    OSE - Politicas y Planes de Desarrollo (August 1986).
17)   MeJora del Rendimiento del Sistema de Agua de Montevideo;
Diagnostico y Plan de Mejora - IESA (July 1985).
18)    Three Task Reports - IESA (Undated).
19)    Report on Water Treatment for Montevideo - Jose P6rez WHO/PAHO
(February 1980).
C. OE - Organizational and Financial Information
1)    Statutes (Law 11907, December 1952).
2)    1983-86 Financial Statements
3)    1986-87 Budgets
4)    1985 Annual Report



-74-                      ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 3
5)    Tariff Study - Pan American Health Organization
(June 1980).
6)    Plan Quinquenal 1985-89 (January 1986).
7)    Politicas y Planes de Desarrollo de OSE (August 1986).
8)    Board Resolution establishing the Project Committee
(RD 1947/87 of August 1987).
D.    Other
1)    Public Sector Investment Review - Draft of World 9ank's
Consultant Report (February 1987).
2)    Ley de Rendici'on de Cuentas (Law 15,903 of November 10, 1987).
3)    Tax on hydrocarbons and tobacco (Decree 235/987 of
May 12, 1987).



___________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     lOw t  l  IERD   20420
PAkGUUAY RALToTI"
ARGENTINA,,                                                                             URUGUA
r                                                                              u R u u A      . 
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
o ArloNrS                                MONTEVIDEO WATER PRODUCTION AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
~CASNPON1A':.N.
ACUA CRRENESPLN
S.         A f\    I D-o r-
X  W  v                                            /                                                                                             w   G  '.                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATLANTIC
CoX                                                                                                                         OCEAN
1 1                                                        KI--    vLtOMETERS 3
INSET A - AGUAS  CORRIENTES PLANT                                                                                         _ M
i t  OLD TREATMENT PLANT     Umo   Chlodn f                      lST MAIN       -                  FEATURES TO AE TEAN9ICITATIED
F.aai., Fooii                                       _                 AND UPGRADED UNDER THE PROJECT              EXISTING FEATURES
Agm _oojOoMo                       -                               D:2ND MAIN                                                          TREATMENT PLANT FACILLITIES                  TRANSMISSION TMAINS                         RIVERS
So- DCmlz   ,   iedm,enso,o  z  t    hhers   8 <                    2ND A                        _      TRANSMISSION MAINS                   -       DISTRDIUTION PIRES                    --CNPE-RAILROADS
17o   j0u0R  Fl1                         ]_........4~.....................                                                 *                                           PUMPING STATIONS                       - DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
lin9k. _I Taoo. w                               PIa.A                                                 D    I R                                                                      DAMS                                       BINTERNATIONAL OUNDARIES
PTroping             AoOoIo,o~      XI,               OSWR                                                                                                        0    RESERVOIRS
4TH MAIN
NEW TREATMENT PLANT
MAY 19R7



