Document of the
World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19640
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2921-UR)
September 10, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 7
Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
[exchange rate as of August 18, 1999]
Currency Unit   =  Peso Uruguayo (UYU)
Peso Uruguayo   =  US$0.0861
US$1.00         =  11.630 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANTEL       -  National Telephone Company
APL         -  Adaptable Program Loan
GoU         -  Government of Uruguay
ICB         -  International Competitive Bidding
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
LCB         -  Local Competitive Bidding
LYSA        -  Lyonnaise Des Eaux America Latina
OSE         -  Administraci6n de las Obras Sanitarias del
Estado
PMU         -  Project Management Unit
SANEPAR  -  Companhia de Saneamento de Parana
(BRAZIL)
SAR         -  Staff Appraisal Report
UFW         -  Unaccounted-for-water
UTE         -  National Electric Company
Vice-President                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Unit Director        Myrna Alexander
Sector Management Unit Director         Danny Leipziger
Task Manager                            Anna Wellenstein



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
Table of Contents
Preface.
Evaluation Summary ........................................................ii
Part I - Implementation Assesment from the Bank's Perspective
A . Project Identity.I
B. Backgrounnd.
C. Project Objectives and Description                            .3
D. Project Design and Preparation                              .5
E. Project implementation                                   .6
F.  Project Results.9
G. Project Sustainability .18
H. Bank Performance.18
1. Borrower Performance .19
J. Bank-Borrower Relationship .20
K. Assessment of Outcome .21
L.   Future Operations.21
M. Lessons Learned.22
Part 11 - Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .25
Table 2: Related Bank LoansCredits .26
Table 3: Project Timetable .27
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated vs. Actual .28
Table 5: Project Scope and Implementation .29
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .31
Table 7: Implementation Schedule and Procurement Method .32
Table 8: Procurement Method by Disbursement Category .34
Table 9: Project Costs.35
Table 10: Project Financing .36
Table I 1: Comparative Price Indices .37
Table 12: Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Disbursement Category .38
Table 13: Minimum Performance Targets .39
Table 14: Recalculation of Rate of Return - Additional Water Production from Aguas Corrientes Water
Treatment Plant .40
Table 15: Recalculation of Rate of Return - New Water Connections .41
Table 16: Ex-Post Qualitative Review of OSE With and Without Project .42
Table 17: Evolution of Tariff Structure and Levels .43
Table 18: OSE's Cash Flow Statements .44
Table 19: OSE's Income Statements .........................                                  45
Table 20: OSE's Balance Sheets .46
i ~Table 21: Staff Inputs.47
Table 22: Status of Legal Covenants .48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Appendices:
A  Borrower's Contribution to ICR .......................                                                                        50
B Comments from the Borrower .......................                                                                             59
C Mission Aide Memoire .......................                                                                                   62
D Map .......................                                                                                                     65



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Water Supply Rehabilitation
Project in Uruguay, for which a US$23.3 million equivalent loan was approved on March
22, 1988, and made effective July I1, 1988. The borrower was the Republica Oriental
del Uruguay.
The loan closed on January 31, 1999, ten and a half years after Board approval and two
and a half years after the original closing date. Disbursements total US$22,221,449.45,
leaving a balance of US$78,550.55 (of the adjusted loan amount of US$22.3 million) in
the loan account, which was cancelled on June 24, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Anna Wellenstein, Task Manager, and Franz Drees, Engineer,
of the Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department of the Latin America and
Caribbean Region, and reviewed by Myma Alexander, Country Director, Asif Faiz,
Sector Leader (LCC7C), and Carlos E. Velez, Senior Economist (LSCFP). Antonio
Trivizo of LCSFP provided support in preparation of document tables and formatting.
The Task Manager for project appraisal was Bernardo Gomez (Principal Financial
Analyst), assisted by Emanuel Idelovitch (Engineer), Roberto Cucullu (Lawyer), Pablo
Carraro (Consultant) and Carlos Pasten (Consultant). Task managers during
implementation were Emanuel Idelovitch, Franz Kriegler, Luis Chang, Emilio Rodriguez,
and Abel Mejia.
Preparation of this ICR began in December of 1998, and in March 1999 a mission was
carried out to gather information for the preparation of the ICR. The report is based on
the findings of that mission, interviews with Bank staff involved in the preparation and
execution of the project, as well as semester progress reports by the Borrower, Bank
supervision reports, correspondence, and internal Bank documents found in the project
files. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by submitting technical and
economic data, and by facilitating and participating in discussions regarding the loan
during Bank mission. The Borrower's contribution and comments are to be included as
Appendices A and B.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
i.    The project proposed to assist the Government of Uruguay (GoU) to improve the
efficiency and quality of services provided by the public water and sanitation utility
(OSE) while reducing its reliance on government subsidies. Specific project objectives
were: (i) to meet short- to medium-term water demand through rehabilitation of existing
facilities, operational improvements and expansion of water production, transmission and
distribution capacity; (ii) to improve the quality and reliability of water service; (iii) to
improve OSE's financial performance by reducing recurrent costs; and, (iv) to implement
a revised sector strategy to meet the long-term demand for water and sewerage services.
The conceptual approach was based on the premise that improved service quality and
utility performance hinged on increasing the technical and financial capacity of OSE.
Efficiency gains were to be brought about through intensive training in the context of a
corporate twinning arrangement and through loan financing of infrastructure and
equipment. Improvements in OSE efficiency were to be coupled with tariff reform and
cost-effective investment planning to increase financial self-sufficiency.
ii.    The project was made up of four components comprising investment and
technical assistance for the systems in Montevideo and up to eight medium-sized cities in
the interior. Component A, Institutional Development, provided for the corporate
twinning arrangement which emphasized increased labor productivity, and improved
operations, customer relations, personnel management, transportation, purchasing and
inventory management, and accounting and information systems.   Under this
arrangement, OSE worked closely with SANEPAR, the water company of the Brazilian
State of Parana, which had a track record as a strong performer in the sector. Component
B, Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems, supported rehabilitation works including the
upgrading of the Aguas Corrientes treatment plant and transmission mains, repair and
replacement of deteriorated equipment and installations in the production and distribution
systems of several medium-size cities and Montevideo, and the purchase and installation
of equipment for improving OSE's operations, including water metering. Component C,
Expansion of the Montevideo Distribution System, provided for the expansion of the
distribution network and for household connections. Component D, Preparation of a
National Water and Sanitation Plan, included financing for long term planning, tariff
studies, and feasibility studies for priority works.



ii
Project Implententation
iii.   The project was appraised in February of 1987, approved by the Board on March
22, 1988, and made effective on July 11, 1988. Implementation took two and a half years
longer than anticipated at appraisal. The loan closed on January 31. 1999, after three
extensions. The long delay between appraisal and loan effectiveness is attributed to
lengthy discussions on the Uruguayan side regarding the details of the on-lending
agreement between the Borrower, through the Ministry of Transport and OSE (Executing
Agency). Implementation lags were due to the slow pace at which OSE finalized designs
and bid documents as well as delays in conducting the tendering process itself.
iv.   Total project cost including contingencies was appraised at US$30.7 million. By
the time the loan closed, total project costs had risen to US$34.3 million. While, the
overall project cost increased only 7% over the contingency adjusted SAR estimates,
actual cost increased substantially for several individual components and activities. Costs
for the Institutional Development Component increased by 1 17%, the Expansion of the
Montevideo Distribution System Component by 79% and the National Water and
Sanitation Plan component by 33%. Cost overruns were due to incomplete design
definition at the time of appraisal, changes in project scope over the long life of the loan,
procurement delays and country-wide cost increases.
v.    Throughout project implementation, OSE financial statemenits were subimitted
with delays of 18 to 24 months after the close of the fiscal year. Until 1996, similar
delays were common with the project and special account audits. The delays had several
causes. In the early years of the project, OSE could be characterized as a company
organized according to engineering needs, with only a rudimentary accounting system.
Certain changes stemming from the corporate twinning arrangement with SANEPAR
further deteriorated the accounting capacity by changing particular components of the
information system without regard for accounting procedures. In 1994, the National
Electricity Company (UTE) was contracted to develop a new financial infornation
system.   Several years were required to establish  links between the new
financial/accounting system and other OSE departments. The 1996 financial statements
were the first to be developed under the new systems and were issued in January of 1998.
OSE issued the 1998 audited statements within the required time frame.
Project Results
vi.   The gradual approach of improving services through rehabilitation and expansion
of physical infrastructure along with institutional improvements through the SANEPAR
corporate twinning arrangement met the modest objectives defined at appraisal. While
the project's four objectives remained unchanged, the specific set of investment
measures, studies and technical assistance services that contributed to meeting the
objectives evolved over the course of the project. The project met short to medium-term
water demand in Montevideo by expanding production capacity at the Aguas Corrientes
treatment plant from 440,000 m3/day to 540,000 m3/day, though not by water savings
(unaccounted-for-water in Montevideo was 34% in 1988 and 45% in 1997). Montevideo



iii
water quality, particularly residual chlorine concentrations, improved with the
introduction of rechlorination stations at intermediate points in the transmission system.
OSE's financial performance improved through increased labor productivity from 12.7
employees/1000 connections in 1987 to 7.9 employees/1000 connections in 1997. While
the corporate twinning arrangement had little impact on OSE overall, it contributed to
achieving these goals by significantly improving performance in several specific areas
including operations, maintenance and customer service activities, as well as
procurement, inventory and stock control functions. On an organizational level,
SANEPAR provided the guidance and technical support that allowed OSE to
deconcentrate its operations by shifting limited responsibilities to four regional offices
and a Metropolitan Montevideo operating unit.
vii.  Progress toward the fourth objective, implementation of a revised sector strategy,
was more modest, as the relevant project components emphasized improvements to OSE
rather thanl changes to the incentives driving utility management. The proposed changes
to increase efficiency were planned within a sector structure devoid of real competition
and consumer pressure to make such changes necessary. Tariff reform studies were never
completed, though tariffs were increased to cover salary increases and growing
investment costs. A long-term plan was prepared in place of the five-year plan originally
proposed. Significantly, the project did little to endow OSE with a cost-effective
investment planning process, though studies to this effect were undertaken. The twinning
arrangement's impact on human resource management was limited and its benefits for
planning and finance were virtually imperceptible. Nonetheless, OSE increased the
percentage of investments financed from operations from 52% (1988) to over 74%
(1997). This improvement has been achieved in spite of a significant increase in
investments from about US$8 million/year in the mid-eighties to between US$60 and
US$85 million/year today.
viii.  OSE's financial performance improved during the project implementation period.
OSE drastically increased revenues and investment. Steep tariff increases during project
implementation boosted the average price of water over 70%. As noted above, internal
financing of investment was always well above the 30% minimum established in the
Project Agreement. Personnel costs versus operating costs outperformed the targets
during all but one year of project implementation. While income and investment grew,
OSE progress on improving financial management in terms of efficient investment
planning and maximization of revenue generation has been modest at best. Major
investments are increasingly financed through short-term debt. By 1997, OSE had over
twice the total assets projected, but also over twice the long term liabilities and almost ten
times the current liabilities. The slow growth and recent downward trend of the rate of
return on fixed assets points to the decreasing revenue generating capacity of
investments, due in part to OSE's supply-side investment planning. OSE met targets for
accounts receivable in only four of the eleven years of the project. In these years, the
reductions were due to large debt write-downs rather than improvements in collection
procedures.



iv
ix.   Economic returns were re-evaluated on a limited set of investments, specifically
water supply expansion and new connections.  Production capacity of the Aguas
Corrientes water treatment plant increased from 440,000 m3/day to 540,000 m3/day, with
an estimated internal rate of return of 41% and a net present value of US$14 million
using a 10% discount rate. The internal rate of return for the 3,500 additional household
water connections and the new water supply distribution network financed by the project
is 10%. The benefit stream was estimated over a 25 year time frame (1988-2012).
Returns on other investments were not analyzed due to the lack of accurate benefit
measures.
x.    The project as a whole was not re-evaluated due to the diluted impact of project
measures on overall OSE performance. The original SAR estimates used 90% of all
projected revenue growth as the project benefit stream, and correspondingly the project
monitoring indicators tracked utility performance as a whole, rather than particular
investments. However, during the project implementation period OSE investments grew
at a rate far above that foreseen in the SAR (over US$365 million from 1988-1997).
Given the actual size of the OSE investment program and the extended implementation
period, project activities formed only a small fraction of the investments undertaken to
achieve the observed revenue increase. The impact of US$31 million in works and
activities funded under the project on the monitoring indicators is considerably diluted
and the indicators capture far more than the impact of project activities alone.
xi.   At appraisal, about one third of the population to benefit from water supply
expansion was thought to be poor. SAR estimates indicate that approximately 175,000
additional people in Montevideo and 58,000 in medium-sized cities in the interior were to
benefit from 49,000 and 16,000 new connections respectively. While the project was to
improve production and transmission capacity to supply water to all of the new
connections, the project proposed to fund construction of only 5,000 of the 65,000 new
connections. By loan closure, 235,000 additional people were served by 169,000 new
connections in Metropolitan Montevideo. The production capacity increases (though not
the transmission improvements) necessary to reach these new customers had been
financed entirely with project funds. The project came near its coverage targets in
metropolitan Montevideo, but did little to improve service in the interior. Only 3,500 (of
the 5,000) new connections to be directly financed under the project were actually built,
serving 12,600 new customers. Nonetheless, 13,400 additional new customers for whom
the IDB had financed distribution networks in a marginal area not considered at appraisal
were connected through small transmission mains financed under the project.  In
summary, the project met its general coverage target and came near its connection target.
The project failed to balance benefits between Montevideo and the interior.
Project Sustain ability
xii.  Though the project's attempt to promote institutional development through
twinning with SANEPAR had very limited impact on OSE overall, it managed to
improve performance in several areas including (i) operations, maintenance and customer
service activities, (ii) procurement, inventory and stock control, and, to a lesser extent,



v
(iii) human resource management. The twinning arrangement also developed the details
of OSE's deconcentration strategy. All of the above organizational changes are well-
entrenched and show positive results. At the same time it is clear that in the absence of
competition and effective regulation in Uruguay's water and sanitation sector, further
institutional improvements are very unlikely. High tariffs insulate the company from the
need to overcome organizational rigidities and reduce costs.
xiii.  Improvements to OSE's water production, transmission and distribution capacity
are both critical to the company's operations and highly visible, and as a result they will
undoubtedly enjoy the management support necessary to ensure their sustainability.
Given the company's insulation from cost-recovery considerations, the sustainability of
other project investments that are not immediately related to service delivery is far more
questionable. Since OSE still does not have a dedicated budget line item that ensures the
replacement of a defined number of obsolete water meters every year, there is no
guarantee, for example, that recent gains in the number of connections with working
meters can be sustained over time. Similarly, though the UFW reduction program piloted
in Minas reduced UFW from 53% to 34%, experience with public water utilities in the
region suggests that such gains are very difficult to maintain without sustained market-
driven attention to cost reduction.
Bank Performance
xiv.   Bank performance was satisfactory during identification and preparation and
marginally satisfactory during appraisal and supervision. In retrospect, a higher level of
project definition at appraisal, including detailed designs and tender documents for the
first year's works, might have accelerated implementation. However, since the Bank had
never before worked with OSE as an executing agency, this chain of events would have
been difficult to foresee at the time of project preparation.  The composition of
monitoring indicators tracks the overall performance of OSE well. However, given the
unanticipated ten-fold increase in OSE's investment budget and the small percentage of
overall investment that the loan came to represent, the utility-level indicators are not
meaningful in terms of the impact of project funded activities.
xv.   Due to the length of implementation and the large number of task managers (6)
that worked on the project from identification to loan closure, documentation in Bank
files is incomplete. It appears that task managers prioritized project elements differently
and requested what seemed to the counterparts to be arbitrary changes in project
reporting requirements. Moreover, the Bank did not provide sufficient periodic feedback
on some of the less successful technical assistance, most notable on the tariff study and
the financial management system. OSE has commented that despite high task manager
turn-over, it never encountered significant delays in operational support. Given the small
size of the loan and the length of implementation, supervision performance may be
considered moderately satisfactory.



vi
Borrowver Performance
xvi.  Borrower performance over the life of the loan was satisfactory. Support from the
top tier of OSE waned temporarily following the appointment of new management after
the 1991 and 1996 national elections. Despite these periods of weak political backing,
the Project Management Unit (PMU) displayed a high level of continuity. The PMU
demonstrated generally good technical and administrative capacity, though at times it
lacked the political and administrative authority to move project measures through OSE
expeditiously.
Assessment of Outcomes and Future Operation
xvii.  The overall outcome is considered satisfactory. The physical objectives were
fully met and the institutional objectives partially achieved.
xviii. OSE will continue to provide water and sanitation services to the majority of the
country over the short to medium tenn. Given the technical and financial capacity of
OSE, it is likely that project funded investments and reforms will be maintained.
However, further efficiency improvements beyond those envisioned in Loan 2921 will
require the introduction of competition and regulation into the sector. An adaptable
program loan (ALP) is under preparation to support these sector refomls.
Lessons Learned
Project Design Lessons
xix.  Twinning arrangements may have a positive yet limited impact in the context of a
company with a clear vision and well defined mandate and where the company lending
assistance has considerable expertise in priority areas. In the case of OSE, the company
lacked a clear vision of its future and where assistance was needed. As a result, the
twinning arrangement was neither defined or controlled. Moreover, because OSE did not
have a clear and well defined mandate, changes in members of the Board lead to a
weakening of support for improvements in company operations.
xx.   Project implementation should be timed to coincide with election cycles and be
within a reasonable span to assure consistency in implementation teams. The long time
period for preparation and implementation of Loan 2921 (13 years) made the project
vulnerable to changes in the leadership of OSE, the Government of Uruguay and the
Bank project team. The impact of these changes included shifts in priorities of OSE
leadership and failure to adopt previously agreed upon policies, poorly maintained Bank
project records, what at times appears arbitrary changes in reporting requirements and lax
enforcement of project and loan agreement covenants.
xxi.  Policy and institutional changes must be realistic for the country context, be
agreed on prior to loan approval, andform part of a clearly defined reform agenda. In
cases where the details of policy and reform cannot be defined at the time of loan



vii
approval, a flexible lending instrument (APL) could provide the opportunity to advance
on reform while refining agreements and commitments from the borrower and the Bank.
Many of the policy changes originally proposed under Loan 2921 were not part of a clear
agenda for OSE nor the GoU. In particular, the changes necessary to substantially
advance project objectives on financial performance were not among company priorities
at the time of project design, and throughout most of project implementation.
Consequently, little progress was made toward achieving these objectives. At the time of
loan preparation, Uruguay had recently ended a period of military government, during
which OSE staff grew and sector investment deteriorated sharply.  As a result,
government priorities in the sector were to improve investment and service rather than to
strengtheni the commercial orientation/efficiency of OSE operations. While strengtheninig
the commercial orientation of activities would likely have improved the cost
effectiveness of investments, the government and OSE prioritized quick physical results
on the most urgent infrastructure needs. As a result, physical investments, and measures
to increase the pace and scope of these investments, were consistently prioritized over
measures to improve financial management and planning of the company.
Policy Lessons
xxii.  Sustainable improvement in utility performance requires a sector structure which
provides incentives for economic efficiency.  Due to the current, non-competitive
environment, OSE leadership is able to manage the utility based on social and political
objectives and teclnical principles which result in the continued weak financial
performance of the company. Loan 2921's financing for investment and improvements
in OSE operations did not address the causes of poor service, only the symptoms. OSE
continues to need external investment financing due to poor management of internally
generated fumds. Focused sector reform, specifically increased competition, would help to
improve incentives for more efficient operations and investment based on customer
demand.
xxiii. Mustering the political will to increase tariffs for a monopoly provider may
insulate the utility from pressures to invest more efficiently. In higher income countries
such as Uruguay, the population's tolerance of relatively high tariffs (that remain low as a
fraction of disposable household income) may result in less pressure for reform than in
poorer countries where high water tariffs are felt more acutely. During the project
implementation period, OSE increased combined water and sewer tariffs by over 70% in
real terms. OSE improved cost recovery due to increased tariffs, not improved investment
planning. In fact, tariff increases may have insulated OSE from the need to reform.
Implementation Lessons
xxiv. Designs and tender documents should be prepared prior to loan approval where
feasible.
Operational improvement depends not only on managerial buy-in, but on the support of
various levels of company stakeholders. In this regard, the twinning arrangement was



viii
effective. The first hand knowledge gained by taking several dozen workers to see lhow
services were organized in the State of Parana (Brazil) proved more effective at
convincing workers of the benefits of change than managers' directives or intellectual
discussions.
xxv   Project monitoring and reporting requtirements should be scheduled to coincide
wi/h utility and government budgeting cycles. OSE was required to submit project
budgets and projections three months prior to the establishment of the government
budget. As a result, the project budget and action plan were consistently delayed and
when submitted on time, were only in draft form.
xxvi. Projecl financial and monitoring inidicators should hlive mneaning not only /br
Bank reporJing purposes, but .for the utility itself: Project financial and monitoring
indicators were detached from OSE financial planning, or lack thereof. Even though the
names of the indicators are the same as those commonly used in the Bank and OSE, the
method for calculating the indicators was different than the norm and the indicators were
not calculated directly from OSE financial statements. As a result, the indicators held no
meaning for the utility, nor could one look to the utility's financial reporting for further
insight into particular indicators. The importance of the indicators as measures of
company performance should be understood and agreed upon between the utility and the
Bank. It is also recommended that standard indicators be used to allow for benchmarking
against other utilities, as currently undertaken by the Bank's TWUWS unit.
xxvii. Monitoring indicators should be designed to track project implementation and
impact. Loan 2921 monitoring indicators tracked the overall performance of OSE, but
did not allow a clear assessment of the contribution of project activities to performance
improvements. The currently used log-framework, when fully employed, addresses this
need through planning of investments and monitoring at the level of disbursement of
funds, execution of works and technical assistance and contribution of executed works
and assistance toward project objectives. In order to realistically use the indicators to
monitor progress and to quantify impacts, the indicators must be specific, measurable,
accountable, reliable and time bound (SMART).



PART 1- PROJECT IMPLEMENT ASSEMENT
A.   Background
General
1.    Uruguay is divided into 19 departments, including the capital, Montevideo.
Population growth is low, estimated at 0.5% between 1975 and 1986. The 1986 total
population was 3.0 million, of which 2.5 million (85%) was urban with over 50% of the
urban population concentrated in Montevideo. For 1986, the SAR reported that 83% of
the urban and 27% of the rural population had domestic water connections, and 63% of
the urban and 20% of the rural population was served by public sewerage. The rest of the
population had access to acceptable alternative systems (standpipes, private wells, septic
tanks and latrines). Service quality was deemed satisfactory. Infrastructure suffered
from insufficient maintenance, rehabilitation and replacements. Unaccounted for water
was estimated at 20% in 1952 and 40% in 1987. At this time, water related diseases such
as enteritis and other diarrheal diseases still figured among the five main causes of
mortality. Infant mortality in 1984 was 27 per 1,000 live births, compared to 21 in Chile,
30 in Argentina and 55 in southern Brazil.
2.    Starting in the 1950's, the Adminstracion de las Obras Sanitarias del Estado
(OSE) became an instrument of income redistribution and fiscal policy at the cost of
economic efficiency. Tariffs were held below the cost of services in the presumed
interest of slowing inflation and benefiting low-income populations. Over-employment,
together with the payment of non-competitive salaries to qualified personnel, was
encouraged as a means of redistributing income to and among public employees.
Operation, maintenance and investment budgets were tailored to sector financial
constraints and the Government's fiscal situation, rather than to the requirements of
orderly sector development.
Sector Objectives
3.    At the time of project preparation, the GoU and OSE intended to redress past
policies with aims to: (a) modernize and restructure sector institutions, with emphasis on
increasing staff and technological efficiency; (b) expand sector infrastructure to provide
services to low-income population and to meet the expanding requirements of the
economy; and (c) introduce financial and cost recovery policies that were to promote
efficient water use, and ensure the affordability of services to low-income population.
4.    OSE's US$24 million investment plan for 1988-89 was designed to extend and
improve water and sewerage services by more fully utilizing the capacity of existing
facilities. The plan included: expansion of services in medium-size cities; rehabilitation
and replacement of obsolete installations and equipment; and modernization and
efficiency improvements in OSE's operations. The first item was funded by an IDB loan
-1-



and by Government counterpart funds. The last two items were to be financed through
OSE's internal cash generation and the Bank loan.
Sector Organization
5.    All urban and rural water supply and sewer systems were planned, constructed
and operated by OSE, with the exception of Montevideo sewerage which was, and still is,
the responsibility of the Municipality. OSE was created by Law 11907 in 1952 and
initiated operations by taking over the water system in Montevideo and water supply and
sewer systems outside the capital. In 1987, OSE was a decentralized service provider
under the Ministry of Transport and Public Works. About one half of the 6,900 OSE
employees worked in Montevideo, the rest were located in 20 regional offices, which
operated 240 systems. Water and sanitation services in Montevideo were coordinated by
two committees, one at the policy-making level and another at the teclnical level.
6.   In 1990 OSE was transferred the newly created  Ministry of Housing, Land
Management and Environment.  The creation of this Ministry and its supporting
regulations had little effect on OSE operations, outside of the new requirements
applicable to all agencies, to carry out environmental impact assessments of new civil
works. Several structural changes occurred within OSE during execution of the loan. In
1991, the General Manager, previously a career service position, became a politically
appointed post. Seven years after loan signing, two additional positions of sub-manager
were added, with one manager handling OSE operations, a second the Maldonado
concession, and the third special projects.  Additional changes resulted from the
recommendations of the corporate twinning arrangement between Companhia de
Saneamento de Parana (SANEPAR) and OSE undertaken as part of the Project. Most
notable among these were the creation of training and regional management units and the
unification of the planning, budget, investment, and organization & metlhodologies
departmnents.
Bank Sector Lending
7.    A key aspect of the Bank's strategy in Uruguay was to pursue structural and
financial reforms of public enterprises. This, the first Bank-financed project in the water
and sanitation sector in Uruguay, aimed to assist the Government and OSE in
implementing essential components of an overall sector strategy that included: (i) the
improvement of OSE's financial perfornance by reducing costs through increased labor
productivity and staff reductions; (ii) the maintenance, rehabilitation and technological
upgrading of existing installations and equipment; and, (iii) the implementation of cost-
effective investments in system expansion. Previously, the Bank had assisted OSE in
establishing a twinning relationship with the SANEPAR, in the identification of system
rehabilitation investments, and in operations and maintenance improvements.  The
twinning arrangement was continued under the Bank loan. At the time the project was
designed, it was anticipated that further Bank initiatives would emphasize system
expansion, particularly outside of Montevideo, and better coordination and more efficient
operation of the water and sewer systems in Montevideo. During project implementation,
-2 -



the World Bank funded the 1996 study, Reform Options for Uruguay's Wcaler cand
Sanitation SecJor, and in 1997 the sector study, Towarrds a Nemw Role fir the Slate in
Uruguay's Utilities.
B.    Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
8.    The project aimed to modernize and restructure OSE by reducing operating costs
and increasing productivity to enable it to operate without subsidies. The project also
emphasized the provision of adequate services to low-income groups at affordable prices.
Specific project objectives were:
(a) to meet short- to medium-term water demand at minimum cost through: (i) water
savings resulting from the rehabilitation of existing facilities and the introduction of
effective operations, maintenance and commercial practices; and, (ii) increased
expansion of water production, transmission and distribution capacity from the
technological upgrading and improvement of water treatment installations, the
rehabilitation of transmission mains, and the expansion of the distribution network to
new areas in Montevideo;
(b) to improve the quality of the water supplied to consumers and the reliability of
service;
(c) to improve OSE's financial performance by reducing operating costs, particularly
through increased labor productivity; and
(d) to implement a revised sector strategy, including cost recovery policies and a cost-
effective investment plan (1990-95) to meet the long-term demand for water and
sewerage services.
Project Description
9.    The project comprised four components of investment and technical assistance for
the systems in Montevideo and up to eight medium-sized cities. The following describes
the components and their percentage of overall project budget at the time of loan signing.
Component A: Institutional Development of OSE (7% of project cost)
Al)  technical cooperation and training through  a corporate twinning
arrangement, emphasizing increased labor productivity, and improved
operations, customer relations, personnel management, transportation,
purchasing and inventory management, and accounting and information
systems; and
-3 -



A2)  technical cooperation for planning and coordination of the proposed
project.
Component B: Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems (85% of project cost)
B])   upgrade the Aguas Corrientes treatment plant to incr-ease its production
capacity by about 20% and to improve water quality;
B2)  restore the carrying capacity of two transmission mains from the Aguas
Corrientes Treatment Plant to the Montevideo reservoirs, and rehabilitate/
replace a short section of another transmission main in the Las Piedras
zone;
B3)  repair and replace deteriorated equipment and installations in the
production and distribution systems of several medium-size cities and in
the Montevideo distribution system; and
B4)   purchase and install equipment for the operation, control and maintenance
of the water and sewer systems, and support equipment required for
improving OSE's operations and customer services, including water
metering.
Component C: Expansion of Montevideo Distribution System (3% of project cost)
C1)  construction of water distribution networks (about 40 km), and
C2)   construction of house connections (about 5,000) and standpipes.
Component D: Preparation of OSE's Water Supply and Sanitation Plan (5% of project
cost)
Dl)  technical assistance, including consulting services, on the job training for
OSE staff, and fellowships for formulating:
-  demand projections, and service targets and standards;
-  a cost-effective investment plan for 1990-95 to meet the demand for water and
sewerage services in the long-term;
-  a tariff policy adequate to: (a) reflect as accurately as possible the economic
cost of meeting the projected demand for water and sewer services; (b)
provide such services by the public sector in a financially self-sufficient
manner; and (c) ensure that services will be affordable to the whole
population;
-4 -



-  procedures to adjust tariffs and other charges on a regular basis to reflect
inflation and cost reductions resulting from increased labor and technological
efficiency;
- a manpower development plan for the sector, including the revision of
institutional aspects related to the execution of such a plan; and
-  feasibility studies and final designs for further expansion of the Montevideo
Water Supply System, and for other priority projects included in the 1990-95
investment plan.
Executing Agencies
10.   The Repuiblica Oriental del UruLguay (the Borrower), through the Ministry of
Transportation, made the loan proceeds available to OSE, as the project executing
agency, on the same terms and conditions as those of the loan. As a condition for loan
effectiveness, the Borrower through the Ministry of Transportation entered into a
subsidiary loan agreement with OSE.
11.   The overall direction and supervision of project implementation was to be carried
out by a committee made up of OSE's President, the General Manager and a full-time
Project Director. The Committee was established and a qualified Project Director
appointed at the time of appraisal. The day-to-day activities under the project were to be
directed by the Project Management Unit and carried out by OSE's operating departments
as were the technical assistance and the project-related training executed under the
twiniing arrangement.
C.    Project Design and Preparation
Project Design
12.   The Project was designed in response to the government's request for assistance
to improve the efficiency and quality of services of public utilities and reduce utility
reliance on government subsidies. The conceptual approach of the project was based on
the premise that improved service quality and utility performance hinged on increasing
the technical and financial capacity of OSE. Efficiency gains were to be brought about
through intensive training in the context of a corporate twinning arrangement and through
loan financing of infrastructure and equipment. Improvements in OSE efficiency were to
be coupled with tariff reform and cost-effective investment planning to increase financial
self-sufficiency. The approach assumed that necessary institutional and operational
reforms would be carried out based on the commitment and professional capacity of OSE
leadership.
-5-



Project Preparation
13.   Bank assistance was first requested in 1985, preappraisal took place in late 1986
and appraisal in February/March of 1987. The project was prepared by OSE with the
assistance of Pan American Health Organization consultants and SANEPAR. At the time
of appraisal, an overall strategy and plan for the institutional development program for
the first two years of project execution had been completed. The staff appraisal report
also states that investment designs were well advanced for the upgrading and
rehabilitation of the Montevideo treatment plant and well advanced for distribution
network expansions. It was anticipated that all designs would be finished within four
months of appraisal. The time required for completing designs was underestimated,
likely due to the lack of World Bank experience in working with OSE. Delays in
preparation of designs and bid documents were a principal cause of slow-downs during
project implementation.
D.    Project implementation
Project Start-Up and Completion
14.   There was a large time lapse between the February/March 1987 appraisal, the
March 22, 1988 Board approval, and the July 11, 1988 loan effectiveness. Most of this
delay is attributable to lengthy discussions on the Uruguayan side regarding the details of
the on-lending agreement between the Borrower through the Ministry of Transport and
OSE (Executing Agency). After three extensions, the loan finally closed on January 31,
1999.
Project Implementation Schedule and Procurement
15.   Despite a delay of 16 months between appraisal and loan effectiveness, OSE was
not ready to proceed with physical investments (components B and C) when funding
ultimately became available. Despite SAR statements on the advanced state of design
and bid documents, no invitation to tender was issued for any works until August, 1989.
Delays in finalizing designs and bid documents as well as delays in conducting the
tendering process itself continued to push back civil works thereafter, as shown in the
following table.
Table I: Delays in Bidding Schedule of Major Works
tem  Component / Sub-Component                 Bid inv. target Bid inv. actual
B. I  Rehab of WS Systems / Water Treatment Plant   4/88          8/89
B.2  Rehab of WS Systems ! Transmission Mains        1/88        12/92
B.3  Rehab of WS Systems / Montevideo distribution syst.  11/87  11/89
B.4  Rehab of WS Systems / Interior distribution syst.  12/89    12/95
C  4Expansion of Montevideo distribution system     3/88          6/89
-6 -



Implementation accelerated temporarily between August 1990 and March 1995 when
most of the project's operating equipment purchases (sub-components B5 and B6, 17%
of total project cost) were made. Overall, the project took 10.5 years to implement,
compared with 8 years initially planned.
Procurement Plan
16.   The project's procurement plan evolved over the life of the loan to favor more
international competitive bidding (ICB, 70% vs. 64% initially projected) over local
competitive bidding (LCB, 7% vs. 20% initially projected, see Statistical Table 8 for
more information). An increase in the scope of consulting services contracted resulted in
a higher percentage of "other" procurement than initially projected (24 % vs. 17%). In
part, these modifications reflect changes in project design toward more equipment,
engineering and technical assistance and less civil works (see section F below). They
also reflect OSE's preference for ICB, even in situations where contract amounts were
below agreed ICB thresholds. This is due to the fact that Uruguayan legislation allows
import duty exemptions for goods procured under ICB when financing is provided
through international loan agreements.
Project Costs
17.   Total project cost including contingencies was appraised at US$30.7 million and
total financing requirements, including taxes and interest on the Bank loan, estimated at
US$33.2 million (Bank: US$22.3 million, OSE: US$10.9 million). By the time the loan
closed, total project costs had risen to US$34.3 million due both to delays in project
implementation, and changes in project scope over the long life of the loan. A detailed
overview of final project costs is provided in Statistical Table 9. Table II below
summarizes changes in project cost by component. The outputs achieved as a result of
these investments are discussed in detail in section E of this report.
Table II: Change in Project Cost by Component
Component                                          Costs (US$ millions)
SAR w/o c SAR w/ c Actual  Change
A. Institutional Development               1.80      2.09      4.53     117 %
B. Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems  22.60     26.27    26.29     0 %
C. Expansion of Montevideo Distribution System  0.80  0.93     1.67     79 %
D. Preparation of Nati. Water and San. Plan  1.20    1.40      1.86     33 %
TOTAL         SAR wlo c:                                                 7%
Key:     SAR w/o c:    appraisal estimate without contingencies
SAR w/ c:    appraisal estimate with contingencies
Actual:      actual component costs by project close
Change:      percentage change Actual vs. SAR w/contingencies
The table shows that despite significant cost increases for Components A, C, and D
(particularly for the Institutional Development component which more than doubled in
size), overall cost increased only 7% over the contingency adjusted SAR estimates. The
relative weight of Component B (Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems) which
-7 -



accounted for 86% of all spending at appraisal, masks the size of cost overruns on the
other components. Component B costs held steady only because its single largest
investment, a US$7.6 million restoration of the carrying capacity of two transmission
mains to Montevideo, was dropped from the project altogether. The reasons for project
scope modifications in general and the decision not to go forward with the transmission
mains sub-component in particular are discussed in section E.
Disbursements
18.   Disbursement Categories.  Four disbursement categories ((i) civil works; (ii)
equipment and materials; (iii) consulting services, training and supervision of works; and
(iv) interest and other charges on the Bank's loan during its grace period) were defined at
appraisal. Allocation of financing for works and activities among the categories was
revised on December 30, 1994 and again on July 10, 1998. The net result was that civil
works decreased from US$7.60 million to US$5.76 million, while equipment increased
from US$10.00 million to US$10.73 million and consulting services increased from
US$3.70 million to US$4.81 million. Details on disbursement are provided in Statistical
Table 12.
19.   As of 1 March, 1999, all but US$249,693.98 of the Bank's loan had been
disbursed. As the disbursement profile presented below indicates, the loan disbursed
more slowly than expected, due largely to delays in packaging and tendering civil works.
A period of relatively rapid disbursement (August 1990 - March 1995) occurred mainly
as a result of significant materials and equipment purchases as described above.
Figure 1: Loan Disbursement
25
5  . - - - -   ,   -- --
20 
-              (Q N    'w  Cq   N      N   11  N
to o a000a               00000
,-      Planned -----Actual to-date - - - F.Revised !
20.   Loan 2921-UR was approved as a Currency Pool Loan (2921-0) which was
converted to a Single Currency Pool instrument on July 1, 1998. At that time the
disbursed and repaid portion of the loan was designated 2921-0, the disbursed
outstanding balance was designated 2921-S, and the undisbursed portion of the original
loan became 2921-A.
-8 -



E.    Project Results
Achievement of Project Objectives
21.   The project's four objectives remained unchanged over the life of the loan,
though the specific set of investment measures, studies and technical assistance services
evolved over the course of the project. The first three objectives were largely met. The
project met short to medium-term water demand in Montevideo by expanding production
capacity at the Aguas Corrientes treatment plant from 440,000 m3/day to 540,000 m3/day,
though not by water savings (Unaccounted-for-water (UFW) in Montevideo was 34% in
1988 and 45% in 1997). Montevideo water quality, particularly residual chlorine
concentrations, improved with the introduction of rechlorination stations at intermediate
points in the transmission system.  OSE's financial performance improved through
increased labor productivity from 12.7 employees/1000 connections in 1987 to 7.9
employees/1000 connections in 1997.
22.   Progress toward the fourth objective, implementation of a revised sector strategy,
was more modest, as the relevant project components (particularly A and D) emphasized
improvements to OSE rather than changes to the incentives driving utility management.
The proposed changes to increase efficiency were planned within a sector structure
devoid of real competition and consumer pressure to make such changes necessary.
Nonetheless, during project implementation OSE increased average water and sanitation
tariffs over 70% in real terms and increased the percentage of investments financed from
operations from 52% (1988) to over 74% (1997). This improvement has been achieved
in spite of a significant increase in investments from about US$8 million/year in the mid-
eighties to between US$60 and US$85 million/year today. Significantly, the project did
little to endow OSE with a cost-effective investment planning process, though studies to
this effect were undertaken. Table III below presents selected performance targets.
Table III: Selected Minimum Performance Targets
Target                                    1989       1995      1997
Employees/1000 water       Target        12.10        9.40
connections                 Real          11.80       8.90      7.90
Operating Expenses/Operating  Target    79.00%     70.00%
Income                      Real        83.00%     69.22%    71.86%
Internally generated funds/total    Target  30.00%  30.00%
investments'                Real        79.12%     61.98%    74.35%
23.   The following sections discuss the project's physical outputs (components B and
C), study results (component D), and benefits derived from institutional changes
(component A). Statistical Table 5 provides an overview of the project's scope and
implementation results.
'Three year average
-9-



Physical Results
24.   Component B: Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems (86% of appraised project
cost). Under sub-component Bl, the production capacity at the Aguas Corrientes plant
was indeed increased from 440,000 m3/day to 540,000 m3/day (+23%) though costs
increased from US$4.1 million (SAR w/contingencies) to US$8.4 million. There were
several reasons for th e cost overrun.  First, detailed designs for the proposed
rehabilitation measures to civil structures (mainly, repairs to sedimentation basins and
filters and construction of a gravity channel between "old" and "new" plant) were not
finalized by appraisal and costs rose as the true extent of works became apparent.
Second, the cost of refurbishing the plant's instrumentation (US$1.2 million) was not
considered at the time of appraisal.  Finally, construction costs in Uruguay rose
significantly both in Peso and Dollar terms over the life of the loan, meaning that
procurement delays resulted in significant cost increases (see Statistical Table 11 for a
comparison of cost indices).
25.   Sub-component B2 proposed an in-situ application of cement-mortar lining to two
steel transmission mains (No. 2 built in 1909 and No. 3 built in 1931) that had suffered
significant corrosion due to the acidity of treated water from Aguas Corrientes (minimum
average pH values as low as 4.5 to 6.0 pre-project). The repairs were budgeted at US$6.5
million (US$7.6 million with contingencies) at appraisal. As a result of procurement
delays and the growth in demand that occurred during the delay, it was no longer feasible
to take either line out of service for the duration of the repair. Actual bids came in in
excess of US$15.0 million when OSE added the constraint that the pipelines could not be
taken completely out of service. An expensive "moving by-pass" would have been
required that made this sub-component economically unviable, and as a result, the
originally planned works were dropped. In 1995/96, construction of a fifth transmission
main between the Aguas Corrientes treatment plant and Montevideo (financed by OSE
alone) made the repairs to lines 2 and 3 superfluous.
26.   Under sub-component B3, the costs of replacement/rehabilitation of pipes, house
connections, water meters and other installations in Montevideo increased from US$7.7
million (SAR with contingencies) to US$9.2 million due to a significant expansion in the
scope of works. 100 km of pipes were replaced instead of 80 km originally budgeted,
and 140,000 new water meters were installed instead of 70,000 initially proposed. In
addition, secondary chlorination facilities for several transmission lines were
satisfactorily installed, reducing bacteria regrowth in distribution systems and secondary
storage reservoirs. A comprehensive macro-metering system also installed under this
sub-component has since become incomplete, as it has yet to be fully adapted to the
needs of the new fifth transmission line.
27.   The focus of sub-component B4 changed somewhat over the life of the loan as did
its costs which increased from US$2.4 million (SAR w/ contingencies) to US$2.9
million. Instead of replacing/rehabilitating 80 km of distribution system pipes in
secondary cities, the project focused investments on an integrated package of UFW
reduction measures in Minas (which reduced UFW from 53% to 35%) and upgrades to
- 10-



the Minas water treatment plant (pumps, overflow channels, instrumentation). Finally,
60,000 new household water meters were installed instead of the 30,000 initially
projected.
28.   The SAR is vague about the number and type of O&M equipment that were to
have been procured for a contingency-adjusted amount of US$3.9 million as part of sub-
component B5. In fact, OSE acquired US$3.9 million worth of pick-up trucks, excavator
trucks, back-hoe excavators, compressors and miscellaneous equipment (Statistical Table
5) in support of operational improvements that grew out of the SANEPAR/OSE twinning
arrangement. OSE spent an additional US$2.0 million on upgrades to customer service
facilities and support equipment. On balance, these investments appear to have improved
OSE's operations and customer services significantly (for furtlher discussion of
operational improvements, see paragraph 33).
29.   C'omponent C: Expansion of the Montevideo Distributtion System (3%  of
appraised project cost). Approximately 43 km of pipes and 3,500 connections were
installed to provide services to Villa Garcia, Pajas Blancas and Santa Ana and to connect
Pueblo General Artigas, where a distribution system had been financed by IDB, to the
Montevideo network. Costs increased to US$1.7 million when detailed designs were
prepared after appraisal and the full scope of civil works to be undertaken became clear.
The remaining 1,500 connections planned were not constructed due to lack of demand
(actual demand below projected growth). However, more than 1,500 households have
since connected to the project funded distribution network. Later connections were
financed by OSE and users.
30.   Component D: Preparation of OSE's Water Supply and Sanitation Plan (5% of
appraised project cost). After three years under execution, the contracted tariff study was
cancelled in its final phase due to unsatisfactory quality (for further discussion on tariffs,
see paragraph 43). A long term investment plan was prepared in place of the five-year
plan (1990-95) initially proposed. US$1.55 million (against US$0.93 budgeted with
contingencies) were spent on diagnostic and feasibility studies by Tahal for four interior
cities and UFW studies by LYSA in Montevideo and a range of cities in the interior.
Given limits on project funds, only the Tahal studies for Minas resulted in works under
loan 2921 -UR. The other three, as well as the UFW work was conducted in preparation
for a follow-on loan. Statistical Table 6 provides an overview of all studies contracted
under the loan.
Institutional Results
31.   Component A: Institutional Development of OSE (7% of cost at appraisal). The
project provided for a twinning arrangement between OSE and the Companhia de
Saneamento do Parana (SANEPAR), a highly effective water utility in southern Brazil,
that was to strengthen OSE in operational areas (operations control, pitometry,
metering, distribution system rehabilitation, reduction of operating costs, maintenance
and customer relations) and support systems (information and financial management
systems, purchasing and inventory, and training). Later, it became clear that SANEPAR
- 11 -



was unable to provide OSE with an appropriate financial information system. OSE then
contracted the National Electricity Company (UTE), in support of component A
objectives using OSE resources. Two contracts, valued at US$4.4 million were
concluded between OSE and SANEPAR, and provided for a level of cooperation far in
excess of the US$1.7 million (SAR with contingencies) program envisioned at appraisal.
32.   Though quite successful in several areas discussed in greater detail below, OSE
itself concluded in a 1996 internal report that the twinning arrangement had been unable
to significantly change the existing situation. The report concludes that though the
twinning arrangement included the appropriate areas of the company, the set of projects
undertaken had been backed neither by a cohesive vision of the type of company OSE
wished to become, nor by clear water and sanitation sector policies at a national level.
The report emphasized that insufficient attention had been paid to the difficulty of
transferring efficient systems from the state of Parana to OSE, which operates in a
different statutory, political, social and cultural context. It is worth mentioning that OSE
emerged from the mid-1980's with low investment levels of only about US$8 million per
year and tended to look more outward at pressing rehabilitation needs and service targets
than inward at structural change. Thus, in spite of the fact that the twinning arrangement
fit neatly with the first post-military government's policy of helping public companies to
change internally (first Sanguinetti presidency, 1985-90), internal reform competed for
OSE management "mind space" along side pressing investment needs and lost.
Significantly, the national government's policy (second Sanguinetti presidency, 1995-00)
has since shifted to helping public companies to change by changing their sector and by
introducing competition. Against this backdrop it is clear that new Bank lending must
take a sector, rather than a utility-centered approach.
33.   Despite low  overall impact, the twinning arrangement brought significant
improvement to OSE's operations, maintenance and customer service activities.
Work crews, office employees, and managers went to Parana to see first hand how
operations could improve. On SANEPAR's advice, OSE procured 36 back-hoe trucks
with project funds and slimmed metropolitan Montevideo maintenance crews from 600
workers to 300 while increasing service calls from 70,000 to 110,000/year. In addition,
metropolitan Montevideo was divided into three customer service zones that reduced
work-crew travel times from zonal offices to network locations where repairs were
needed. Telephone receptionists that take customer service requests were trained and
increased in number from 5 to 25. Service orders were computerized and prioritized,
allowing workers to attend to the most pressing problems first.  The twinning
arrangement had limited impact on human resource management but did create OSE's
first internal training unit. SANEPAR proposed the creation of OSE's micrometering unit
which since 1996 has standardized policy on metering, calibration and connection
procedures. Finally, SANEPAR had a significant impact on OSE's procurement,
inventory and stock control functions.  Streamlined work procedures, clear job
descriptions and the addition of new fork lifts have reduced personnel in the Procurement
Department from 190 to 87 since 1990, even as turn-around times on materials orders
have been cut from 30 - 45 to 10 - 15 days.
- 12 -



34.   On a more macro level, SANEPAR proposed that OSE reorganize into
metropolitan Montevideo and 4 interior regions. This deconcentration has brought OSE
closer to its customers, particularly in the interior which accounts for half of Uruguay's
population.
35.   Planning and finance are two areas that benefited little from the twinning
arrangement. The reason, in part, appears to be that SANEPAR itself did not have a top-
flight financial management system so that after 1994 OSE turned to UTE for assistance.
A more fundamental reason, however, stems from the difficulty of trying to introduce
cost-effective planning and financial management systems in a utility that has not
traditionally faced any competition and can pass the consequences of poor investment
decisions and inefficient operations to consumers in the form of higher tariffs.
36.   The twinning arrangement with SANEPAR helped OSE to meet or approachl two
of the minimum performance targets set out in the SAR. According to project design,
OSE was to improve from 12.7 employees/I 000 connections in 1987 to 9.4
employees/l000 connections in 1995.  In fact, OSE reached 8.9 employees/1000
connections in 1995 and improved to 7.9 employees/1000 connections by 1997. While
OSE's workforce did decrease from 6,670 in 1988 to 5,375 in 1997 - thaanks largely to
severance initiatives supported by the government in 1990/91 and again in 1996/97 -
most of the improvement in efficiency is due to the significant increase in total water
connections from 542,000 in 1988 to 712,000 in 1997. The number of connections with
working meters has not increased as rapidly, climbing slowly from 89% in 1988 to 93%
in 1997. This falls short of the SAR target of 94% effective metering by 1995. It also
masks the fact that the fraction of connections with working meters remained virtually
unchanged for the first eight years of the loan and has only recently improved with the
creation of a dedicated micrometering unit. Nonetheless, OSE will continue to struggle
with metering targets, despite the 200,000 meters purchased under the loan, as long as it
fails to establish a permanent budget line item that commits the company to replacing a
fixed fraction of obsolete meters every year.
Statutory Changes
37.   The Project Agreement (section 2.06 (ii)) committed the Borrower to reviewing
OSE's statutes and submitting a reform proposal to the Legislature that would facilitate
implementation of Component A (Institutional Reform). Specific reform requirements
were never specified and an agenda for legal change was never mapped out. In the
absence of a well-defined reform agenda, there was little movement during the loan
implementation period to develop the legal tools that might have supported reform.
Ultimately, the Borrower prepared a draft law that would have converted OSE's status
from that of a decentralized service to an autonomous corporation, the status already
enjoyed by UTE and state telephone company (ANTEL). The change in status would
have given OSE greater autonomy from its supervising ministry in the areas of personnel,
budgeting and dispute resolution procedures. The proposed law has never left the
Legislature. Thus at loan closure in 1999, OSE's legal set-up is no different than it had
been in 1988.
- 13 -



Financial Performnance
38.   OSE financial statements were reviewed for the project implementation period.
As a result of changes and anomalies in financial reporting, the statements were reviewed
for broad trends rather than detailed findings. Most notably, in 1991 OSE revised its
accounting classification system, and in 1996 OSE revised its accounting procedures in
accordance with the independent auditor's recommendations. OSE also wrote down a
substantial amount of accounts receivable in 1990 and then annually starting in 1997.
Financial statements with projected and actual data are presented in Statistical Tables 18
-20.
39.   Income cand Investment.  During the project implementatioll period, OSE
drastically increased revenues and investment.  OSE outperformed SAR  income
projections, with the exception of a downturn in 1989-90.  Internal financing of
investment was well above the 30% minimum established in the Project Agreement,
actually averaging over 70%  per year.  The performance is particularly notable
considering the increase in investment from US$8 million in 1988 to over US$84 million
in 1997.
40.   Financial Planning. The audited statements show a financial profile matching the
previous description of OSE as a company that generates large investments, but with little
consideration for financial management in terms of efficient investment planning and
maximizing revenue generation. A 1994 Ayuda Memoria agreement to create an internal
unit in OSE to prepare financial projections was never fulfilled. Though the Planning
Department carries out projections each year, the projections have yet to become an
integral part of OSE management. Evidence of the lack of long tern financial planning is
shown in OSE balance sheets, as major investments are increasingly financed through
short-term debt. While the debtl(debt+equity) ratio is well below the original projections,
the perspective on OSE solvency is very different when short-term debt is considered.
Short term debt was double that of long term debt by 1997, with short term loans
reaching over US$50 million. Accounts payable for services also rose during the project
implementation period. The current ratio is well below the levels projected in the SAR
and indicates the trend toward financing investments with short term debt. By 1997, OSE
had over twice the total assets projected, but also over twice the long term liabilities and
almost ten times the current liabilities. The slow growth and recent downward trend of
the rate of return on fixed assets points to the decreasing revenue generating capacity of
investments, due in part to OSE's supply-side investment planning.
41.   Accounts Receivable. OSE met targets for accounts receivable in only four of the
eleven years of the project. In these years the reductions were due to large debt write-
downs rather than improvements in collection procedures. In 1990 OSE and other public
utilities, wrote downa mutual debts, after which accounts receivable grew steadily.
Following the recommendation of the 1996 external auditor, Tea Deloitte Touche, OSE
wrote off a large portion of accounts receivable and instituted a debt write-down policy.
- 14 -



42.   Personnel Costs. Personnel costs versus operating costs outperformed the targets
each year, with the exception of 1996. The increase in 1996 is largely due to changes in
accounting standards after which subsistence expenses were reclassified as personnel
costs. A slight downward trend was again noted for 1997. No information was available
on personnel cost incurred through outsourcing, though outsourcing increased from 7% to
15% of operating cost during project implementation.
43.   Tarif Increases. Though the tariff study agreed to in the loan document was
never completed, OSE increased the average water and sanitation tariff over 70% in real
terms during the project implementation period to keep pace with salary increases and to
cover growing operation and investment costs. Increases were also necessary due to the
fact that OSE had no policy of debt write-down during most of the project
implementation period and the cumulative effect of the collectibles threatened OSE
solvency. Changes in tariff structure and level are presented in Statistical Table 17. In
addition to tariff increases, OSE has levied additional charges (tacrfiis adicionales) to
cover part of investment costs. These charges recover cost directly from the customers to
benefit from the new infrastructure. On average over the last four years, OSE has taken in
US$10 million per year in revenues from these additional charges.
Project Accounts and Auditing Reports
44.   Throughout project implementation, OSE financial statements were submitted
with delays of 18 to 24 months after the close of the fiscal year. Until 1996, similar
delays were common with the project and special account audits. The delays have
several causes. In the early years of the project, OSE could be characterized as a
company organized according to engineering needs, with only a rudimentary accounting
system. In some cases, the SANEPAR twinning program further deteriorated the
accounting capacity. For example, SANEPAR recommended reform of stock codes for
the procurement and storage department; however, these reforms were based on
optimizing the operations of the storage system and in isolation of other information
system reforms. The end result was a deterioration of the accounting department's
capacity to track and value inventory, and, consequently, to produce yearly financial
statements.
45.   In 1994 UTE was contracted to develop a new financial/accounting information
system. The UTE financial/accounting system formed part of a company-wide integrated
information system, while OSE only contracted the transfer of the financial/accounting
component of this system. As a result, several years were required to adapt the UTE
system so as to be able to establish the links between the new financial/accounting system
and other OSE departments. The 1996 financial statements were the first to be developed
under the new system and were issued in January of 1998. OSE issued the 1998 audited
within the required time frame.
- 15 -



Economic Reevaluation
46.   Economic returns were re-evaluated on a limited set of investments, specifically
water supply expansion and new connections (see Statistical Tables 14 and 15).
Statistical Table 16 presents scenarios with and without the project and describes
qualitative impacts for these project components. The returns of other investments were
not analyzed due to the lack of accurate benefit measures.
47.   The project as a whole was not re-evaluated due to the following reasons:
Diluted impact of project on overall OSE performance. Project monitoring
indicators present the performance of OSE, not particular project activities.
During the project implementation period, OSE investments grew at a rate above
that foreseen in the SAR, for a total of over US$365 million from 1988-1997.
Given the actual size of the OSE investment program, the impact of US$31
million in works and activities funded by the project on the monitoring indicators
may be considerably diluted and the indicators may not represent the impact of
project activities.
Sparse Physical Monitoring Indicators. The majority of project funds were
used to finance physical works (over 80% of project financed activities), however
the project included few physical monitoring indicators. As a result, there are no
clear measures of the overall physical impact of project activities and investments,
though in specific cases, impacts can be estimated (see below).
48.   Applying a methodology comparable to that used for the SAR would yield an
inaccurate measure of project returns. The original analysis took 90% of all projected
revenue growth as the project benefit stream. In fact, project activities formed only a
small portion of the investments undertaken to achieve that incremental revenue,
particularly given the extended project implementation period. Consequently, the returns
estimated in this ICR employ a substantially different approach and are not comparable to
the original SAR estimates.
49.   Estimated Returns. Production Capacity of the Aguas Corrientes plant increased
from 440,000 m3/day to 540,000 m3 /day due to project investments, with an estimated
internal rate of return of 41% and a net present value of US$14 million using a 10%
discount rate. The return is based on the benefits and costs of avoided rationing. The
benefit stream is estimated over a 25 year time frame (1988-2012), and includes the
incremental water revenue generated from the additional production capacity. The new
capacity was assumed to be fully utilized by year 1999. Incremental costs include project
investment costs and variable cost (energy, chemical, personnel, materials and
administrative costs). All values were calculated in US dollars, with a base year of 1987.
This approach is likely to overestimate as it assumes excess capacity in all other
infrastructure necessary to delivery treated water to the customer.
- 16-



50.   The internal rate of return for the 3,500 additional connections and the new
distribution network is estimated at 10% and the net present value at zero using a 10%
discount rate. The returns are based on the incremental water revenues derived from the
new connections over a 25-year time span (1988-2012). The cost stream includes project
investment costs and variable costs associated with water produced (energy, cheemicals,
personnel, materials and administrative costs). All values were calculated in US dollars
with a base year of 1987.
51.   The estimated return on new connections likely underestimates project benefits.
The approach takes financial benefits (revenues) as equal to economic benefits, and
therefore underestimates economic returns by not accounting for consumer surplus. The
methodology employed also likely undervalues the positive environmental and health
externalities associated with potable water supply.
52.   The impact of institutional development activities and associated equipment
purchases were not clearly defined at project initiation, and therefore monitoring
indicators are not available to distinguish the impact of these activities from others
undertaken in OSE over the 11 year project implementation period. Installation of water
meters yielded only financial benefits and the rehabilitation of pipes is considered part of
regular maintenance undertaken by the utility, therefore not yielding economic benefits.
There are no quantifiable estimates of benefits available for the installation of secondary
chlorination facilities.
Impact on the Poor
53.   At appraisal, it was estimated that approximately 175,000 additional people in
Montevideo and 58,000 in medium-sized cities in the interior were to benefit from 49,000
and 16,000 new connections respectively. While the project was to improve production
and transmission capacity to supply water to all of the new connections, only 5,000 of the
65,000 connections listed above were actually to be constructed with project funds.
About a third of the population to be served by the new connections was thought to be
poor.
54.   By loan closure, 235,000 additional people (slightly more than the 233,000
projected for Montevideo plus the interior at appraisal) were served by 169,000 new
connections in Metropolitan Montevideo. The production capacity increases (though not
the transmission improvements) necessary to reach these new customers had been
financed entirely with project funds. The project came near its coverage targets in
metropolitan Montevideo, but was less effective in improving service in the interior.
Only 3,500 of the 5,000 new connections to be directly financed under the project in
marginal areas were actually built. The connections built served 12,600 new customers
in the Villa Garcia, Pajas Blancas and Santa Ana neighborhoods. Nonetheless, 13,400
additional new customers for whom the IDB had financed distribution networks in a
marginal area known as "Pueblo General Artigas" not considered at appraisal were
connected through small transmission mains financed under the project. Thus, in
summary, it is fair to conclude that the project met its general coverage target (production
- 17 -



capacity for 235,000 new customers versus 233,000 at appraisal) and came near its
connection target (3,500 project-financed new connections in Villa Garcia plus 3,900
new connections supplied with water in Pueblo General Artigas, as compared with 5,000
new connections projected at appraisal). The project failed to balance benefits between
Montevideo and the interior.
F.    Project Sustainability
Institutional Reform
55.   Though the project's attempt to promote institutional development through
twinning with SANEPAR had very limited impact on OSE overall, it managed to
improve performance in several areas including (i) operations, maintenance and customer
service activities, (ii) procurement, inventory and stock control, and, to a lesser extent,
(iii) hlunman resource management. The twinning arrangement also developed the details
of OSE's deconcentration strategy. All of the above organizational changes are well-
entrenched and show positive results as previously described. At the same time it is clear
that in the absence of competition and effective regulation in Uruguay's water and
sanitation sector, further institutional improvements are very unlikely. High tariffs
insulate the company from the need to overcome organizational rigidities and reduce
costs. The twinning arrangement has taken OSE from the ranks of the very poor
performers to a new plateau of mediocrity from which it will not rise without meaningful
sector reform.
Physical Achievements
56.   Since improvements to OSE's water production, transmission and distribution
capacity are both critical to the company's operations and highly visible, they will
undoubtedly enjoy the management support necessary to ensure their sustainability.
Given the company's insulation from cost-recovery considerations, the sustainability of
other project investmnents that are not immediately related to service delivery is far more
questionable. Since OSE still does not have a dedicated budget line item that ensures the
replacement of a defined number of obsolete water meters every year, there is no
guarantee, for example, that recent gains in the ;.umber of connections with working
meters can be sustained over time. Similarly, though the UFW reduction program piloted
in Minas reduced UFW from 53% to 34%, experience with public water utilities in the
region suggests that such gains are very difficult to maintain without sustained market-
driven attention to cost reduction.
G.   Bank Performance
Identifi cation, Preparation and Appraisal
57.   Bank performance was satisfactory during identification and preparation and
marginally satisfactory during appraisal and supervision. In retrospect, a higher level of
- 18-



project definition at appraisal, including detailed designs and tender documelnts for the
first year's works, might have accelerated implementation. However, since the Bank had
never before worked with OSE as an executing agency, this chain of events would have
been difficult to foresee at the time of project preparation.  The composition of
monitoring indicators tracks the overall performance of OSE well. However, given the
unanticipated ten-fold increase in OSE's investment budget and the small percentage of
overall investment that the loan came to represent, the utility-level indicators are not
meaningful in terms of the impact of project funded activities.
Supervision
58.   Due to the length of implementation (10.5 years) and the large number of task
managers (6) that worked on the project from identification to loan closure,
documentation in Bank files is incomplete. Supervision performance was uneven as
shown in Table IV2.
Table IV: Supervision Missions
| Year      j 1988  1989  1990  1991 | 1992  1993 11994 11995  1996 j 1997 119981
Missions     1    2       1     1    I      1     1    2      4     2     0
On average, the Bank conducted only one to two full supervision missions per year.
Only in 1996, when preparations for a new loan picked-up speed, did Bank supervision
intensify. OSE has commented that despite high task manager turn-over, it never
encountered significant delays in obtaining "no-objections" from the Bank team.
Nonetheless, Bank technical support during supervision was less smooth than support for
operational aspects of the project. It appears that task managers prioritized project
elements differently and requested what seemed to the counterparts to be arbitrary
changes in project reporting requirements. Moreover, the Bank did not provide sufficient
periodic feedback on some of the less successful technical assistance, most notable on the
tariff study and the financial management system. Nonetheless, given the small size of
the loan and the length of implementation, supervision performance may be considered
moderately satisfactory.
H.    Borrower Performance
Overall Assessment
59.   Borrower performance over the life of the loan was satisfactory. Support from the
top tier of OSE waned temporarily following the appointment of new management after
the 1991 and 1996 national elections. Despite these periods of weak political backing,
the Project Management Unit (PMU) displayed a high level of continuity. The PMU
2 The table counts only full supervision missions conducted after loan effectiveness that left Aide-
Memoires in the field. OSE reports that the actual number of missions (counting brief stopovers by Bank
staff involved with the project) was higher.
- 19 -



demonstrated generally good technical and administrative capacity, tlhougli at times it
lacked the political and administrative authority to move project measures tlhrough OSE
expeditiously.
Procuirement and Financial Reporting
60.   Nowhere is the absence of high-level managerial backing witlhin OSE more
apparent than in the areas of procurement and financial reporting. Many of the project's
final designs were prepared in-house by OSE's technical department.  Project
investments competed for the technical department's engineering time alongside the
company's other investments (approximately US$ 8 million at the beginling and US$60
- 85 million at the end of the project). Consequently, detailed designls and tender
documents took far longer to finalize than projected at appraisal. Once works had been
tendered, additional delays occurred before contracts witlh successful bidders were
ultimately signed. It is clear that consistent senior management support over the life of
the project would have allowed the loan to disburse on schedule. Financial reporting is
another case in point. While technical difficulties with an antiquated accounting system
and then with the UTE system explain a part of the annual delays in producing OSE's
financial statements in a timely manner, a significant part of the delay is also due to a
lack of senior management priority on financial reporting and management.
Institutional Continuity
61.   Despite the uneven performance of senior OSE management, the PMU displayed
a high level of continuity. The PMU demonstrated generally good technical and
administrative capacity, but lacked the political and administrative authority to move
project measures through OSE expeditiously.
62.   OSE complied with most loan and project agreement covenants, though often
with delays. The Borrower and OSE met requirements of the on lending agreement and
maintenance of special and project accounts. OSE established and maintained a project
committee and a director, carried out a study on personnel management, presented
revisions of OSE statues to the legislature (see paragraph 37), and carried out a training
program according to agreed timelines. With regular delays, OSE submitted yearly
action plans and audited financial statements, and niaintained adequate insurance. OSE
only partially met performance targets as shown in Statistical Table 13 of this document.
Submission of forecasts and plans for meeting targets for subsequent years were often
delayed. OSE never fully completed the required tariff study, though it has since
contracted the final stages of the study with its own funds. Further details on loan
covenant compliance are presented in Statistical Table 22.
I.    Bank-Borrower Relationship
63.   The Bank and the Borrower maintained a constructive working relationship
throughout the long implementation period. The Bank showed flexibility in authorizing
-20 -



works and equipment purchases that were only defined in relatively general terms at
appraisal. It did so while maintaining a clear focus on the established project objectives.
As previously discussed in the section on Bank Performance, the Bank was prompt in
responding to Borrower requests for "no-objections". Another factor underpinning the
relatively smooth operating relationship was that the Bank for niany years remained
content not to push OSE harder on institutional change than the company itself was
willing to go. The project opted for a soft-touch, gradualist internal reforn process within
OSE that successfully improved the company in several areas while never exposing it to
the hard choices that strong sector reform with competition from outside providers would
have demanded.
J.    Assessment of Outcome
Physical Objectives and Outcomes
64.   The project achieved both of its physical objectives, (i) meeting short- to medium
tern water demand, and (ii) improving the quality of water supplied to consumers and the
reliability of the service. The project also met most of its physical outcomes: (i)
upgrading the Aguas Corrientes treatment plant; (ii) repairing and replacing deteriorated
equipment and installations in the production and distribution systems of several
medium-sized cities and in the Montevideo distribution system; (iii) purchasing and
installing equipment; and, (iv) expanding the Montevideo distribution system. With good
reason, it did not follow through on a sub-component to restore the carrying capacity of
two transmission mains which proved to be economically unviable. The elimination of
this sub-component freed up funds that financed cost overruns on other physical
investments, which occurred due to procurement delays and country-wide construction
cost increases, as well as incomplete design definition at appraisal.
Institutional Objectives and Outcomes
65.   While the corporate twinning arrangement with SANEPAR had little impact on
OSE overall, it significantly improved performance in several areas including operations,
maintenance and customer service activities, and procurement, inventory and stock
control functions. The twinning arrangement's impact on human resource management
was limited and its benefits for planning and finance were virtually imperceptible. On an
organizational level, SANEPAR provided the guidance and technical support that
allowed OSE to deconcentrate its operations by shifting limited responsibilities to four
regional offices and a Metropolitan Montevideo operating unit.
K.   Future Operations
66.   OSE will continue to provide water and sanitation services to the majority of the
country over the short to medium term. The project investments, particularly in water
production, transmission and distribution still form critical elements of the company's
- 21 -



operations. Some of the loan funded institutional reforms continue show benefits for
OSE, particularly those in (i) operations, maintenance and customer service, and (ii)
procurement, inventory and stock control. The deconcentration strategy developed as
part of the SANEPAR twinning arrangement formed the basis for the decentralization
project funded by IDB (scheduled to close in 2000). Given the technical and financial
capacity of OSE, it is likely that project funded investments and reforms will be
maintained.
67.   Further efficiency improvements beyond those envisioned in Loan 2921 will
require the introduction of competition and regulation into the sector. An adaptable
program loan (ALP) is under preparation to support these sector reforms. The project
team for the APL prepared this ICR and several lessons have been directly brought into
the strategy of the new project. Major issues include the emphasis on sector reform as
opposed to a utility based investment loan, incremental reform through increased
competition and strengthening of the regulatory framework, loan disbursement in phases
triggered by the achievement of reform targets, and public commitment to performance
improvements. The project under preparation also takes into account lessons learned on
election cycles and the timing of project preparation and implementation. The proposed
APL includes a short first phase (APL 1) with moderate reforms, with subsequent phases
(APL2 and APL3) including deeper sector reform to be appraised, negotiated and
implemented with the new government taking office in January 2000.
L.   Lessons Learned
Project Design Lessons
68.   Twinning arrangements may have a positive yet limited impact in the context of a
company with a clear vision and well defined mandate and where the company lending
assistance has considerable expertise in priority areas. In the case of OSE, the company
lacked a clear vision of its future and where assistance was needed. As a result, the
twinning arrangement was neither defined or controlled. Moreover, because OSE did not
have a clear and well defined mandate, changes in members of the Board lead to a
weakening of support for improvements in company operations.
69.   Project implementation should be timed to coincide with election cycles and be
within a reasonable span to assure consistency in implementation teams. The long time
period for preparation and implementation of Loan 2921 (13 years) made the project
vulnerable to changes in the leadership of OSE, the Government of Uruguay and the
Bank project team. The impact of these changes included shifts in priorities of OSE
leadership and failure to adopt previously agreed upon policies, poorly maintained Bank
project records, what at times appears arbitrary changes in reporting requirements and lax
enforcement of project and loan agreement covenants.
70.   Policy and institutional changes must be realistic for the country context, be
agreed on prior to loan approval, and form part of a clearly defined reform agenda. In
- 22 -



cases where the details of policy and reform cannot be defined at the time of loan
approval, a flexible lending instrument (APL) could provide the opportunity to advance
on reform while refining agreements and commitments from the borrower and the Bank.
Many of the policy changes originally proposed under Loan 2921 were not part of a clear
agenda for OSE nor the GoU. In particular, the changes necessary to substantially
advance project objectives on financial performance were not among company priorities
at the time of project design, and throughout most of project implementation.
Consequently, little progress was made toward achieving these objectives. At the time of
loan preparation, Uruguay had recently ended a period of military government, during
which OSE staff grew and sector investment deteriorated sharply.  As a result,
government priorities in the sector were to improve investment and service rather than to
strengthen the commercial orientation/efficiency of OSE operations. While strengthening
the commercial orientation of activities would likely have improved the cost
effectiveness of investments, the government and OSE prioritized quick physical results
on the most urgent infrastructure needs. As a result, physical investments, and measures
to increase the pace and scope of these investments, were consistently prioritized over
measures to improve financial management and planning of the company.
Policy Lessons
71.   Sustainable improvement in utility performance requires a sector structure which
provides incentives for economic efficiency.  Due to the current, non-competitive
environment, OSE leadership is able to manage the utility based on social and political
objectives and technical principles which result in the continued weak financial
performance of the company. Loan 2921's financing for investment and improvements
in OSE operations did not address the causes of poor service, only the symptoms. OSE
continues to need external investment financing due to poor management of internally
generated funds. Focused sector reform, specifically increased competition, would help to
improve incentives for more efficient operations and investment based on customer
demand.
72.   Mustering the political will to increase tariffs for a monopoly provider may
insulate the utility from pressures to invest more efficiently. In higher income countries
such as Uruguay, the population's tolerance of relatively high tariffs (that remain low as a
fraction of disposable household income) may result in less pressure for reform than in
poorer countries where high water tariffs are felt more acutely. During the project
implementation period, OSE increased combined water and sewer tariffs by over 70% in
real terms. OSE improved cost recovery due to increased tariffs, not improved investment
planning. In fact, tariff increases may have insulated OSE from the need to reform.
Implementation Lessons
73.   Designs and tender documents should be prepared prior to loan approval where
feasible.
- 23 -



74.   Operational improvement depends not only on managerial buty-in, but on the
support of various levels of company slakeholders.  In this regard, the twinning
arrangement was effective. The first hand knowledge gained by taking several dozen
workers to see how services were organized in the State of Parana (Brazil) proved more
effective at convincing workers of the benefits of change than managers' directives or
intellectual discussions.
75.   Project monitoring and reporting requirements should be scheduled to coincide
wRith utility and government budgeting cycles. OSE was required to submit project
budgets and projections three months prior to the establishment of the government
budget. As a result, the project budget and action plan were consistently delayed and
when submitted on time, were only in draft form.
76.   Project financial and monitoring indicators should have 7eaning nol only for
Bank reporting purposes, but,for the utility itself  Project financial and monitoring
indicators were detached from OSE financial planning, or lack thereof. As a result, the
indicators held no meaning for the utility, nor could one look to the utility's financial
reporting for further insight into particular indicators. The importance of the indicators as
measures of company performance should be understood and agreed upon between the
utility and the Bank. It is also recommended that standard indicators be used to allow for
benchmarking against other utilities, as currently undertaken by the Bank's TWUWS
unit.
77.   Monitoring indicators should be designed to track project implementation and
impact. Loan 2921 monitoring indicators tracked the overall performance of OSE, but
did not allow a clear assessment of the contribution of project activities to performance
improvements. The currently used log-framework, when fully employed, addresses this
need through planning of investments and monitoring at the level of disbursement of
funds, execution of works and technical assistance and contribution of executed works
and assistance toward project objections. In order to realistically use the indicators to
monitor progress and to quantify impacts, the indicators must be specific, measurable,
accountable, reliable and time bound (SMART).
- 24 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial        Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                                          '/
Sector Policies                                                                         I
Financial Objectives                                /
Institutional Development                           I
Physical Objectives                 ,/
Poverty Reduction                   I
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives                                                                 V
Environmental Objectives                                                                /
Public Sector Management                                                                I
Private Sector Development                                                              ..
Other (specify)
B.   ProjectSusaLikely                                         Unlikely                  Uncertain
,B. Project Sustainability              (8)(w)                                               (V)
Highly                           Marginally
C. Bank Performance                     Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification
Preparation Assistance                                 I
Appraisal                                                                /
Supervision                                                              V
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                       Satisfactoy     Satisfactory     Deficient
(vi)           (1)              (1)
Preparation                                                   I
Implementation
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highy                                              Hihy
E. Assessment of Outcome               Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(      -/)  (2/) 
-25 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit and Title   Purpose                   Amount    Year    Status
(USD Million)
Preceding Operations
Public Enterprise Reform  Technical assistance to   11.0      1992   Closed
(UR-35 17)             support the Government's
public enterprise reform
& privatization program.
Concurrent Operations
None.
Following Operations
Water Sector           To increase the           15.0 APLI    1999  Preparation
Modernization and      efficiency, coverage and  (90.0 total
Rehabilitation (UR-PE-   sustainability of water    APL Program)
63383)                 supply and sanitation
services in Uruguay
- 26 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned                Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
Identification                    May 1985                    May 1985
Pre-appraisal                                                 October 86
Appraisal                         January 1987                Feb/March 1987
Negotiations                      July 1987                   Jan/Feb. 1988
Board Approval                    September 1987              March 22, 1988
Signing                           November 1987               April 14, 1988
Effectiveness                                                 July 11, 1988
Loan Closing                      June 30, 1996               Jan. 31, 1999
- 27 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated vs. Actual
(USS Millions)
Bank FY          Half           Estimate          Actual         Actual as %  of Estimate
1988             1              0.00             0.00                    0.0%
1988            2               2.00             0.00                    0.0%
1989             1              2.40             0.07                    0.3%
1989            2               3.40             1.16                    5.2%
1990             1              5.00             1.28                    5.7%
1990            2               6.70             1.36                    6.1%
1991             1              8.80             1.91                    8.6%
1991            2              11.80             3.02                    13.5%
1992             1             14.00             6.02                   27.0%
1992            2              15.60             7.77                   34.8%
1993             1             17.20             8.57                   38.4%
1993            2              18.40             11.67                  52.3%
1994             1             19.50             15.55                  69.7%
1994            2              20.50             17.50                  78.5%
1995             1              21.2             18.61                  83.5%
1995             2              21.8             19.09                  85.6%
1996             1              22.1             19.34                  86.7%
1996             2              22.3             19.92                  89.3%
1997             1              22.3             20.33                  91.2%
1997            2               22.3             20.88                  93.6%
1998             1              22.3             21.42                  96.1%
1999             1              22.3             21.95                  98.4%
1999             2              22.3             22.23                  99.7%
Cumulative Loan Disbursement
25
I                     __  _ _                                            - -
.  15                .   _____                 _
v= 10                                     -
~~~~~~~~ 5  ~-------  1--.--------.----- '-- --.- -!                             - I 
U,~ ~     _ __
Planned      -     ~~~   Actual to-date   -  -   - F.Revised,
U) ~ ~    ~       ~       ~      ~      _     ,.          .. .
5~~-                         2



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 5: Project Scope and Implementation
Project Component                                       Type   Unit          SAR              Actual        Completion
Estimate                            Date
1. Institutional Development
A   Twvinning arrangement wivh a highly effective paler utility.                                                  Oct-94
According to SAR, activities wvere to provide supportfor:
- operations control                                    o.d. (I)    -         Yes               Yes
- pitometry                                             o.d. ll)    -         Yes               No
- metering                                              o.d. (I)    -         Yes               Yes
- rehabilitation of distribution system                 o.d. (I)    -         Yes               Yes
- reduction of operating costs                          o.d. (I)              Yes               Yes
- maintenance                                           o.d. (I)    -         Yes               Yes
- consumer relations                                    o.d. (I)    -         Yes               Yes
- information and financial management system           o.d. (I)    -         Yes              No (2)
- purchases and inventory                               o.d. (I)    -         Yes               Yes
- training                                              o.d. (I)    -         Yes               Yes
B  In addition to activities outlined in the SAR, the twinning
arrangement provided supportfor:
- OSE's technical department (technology transfer for water    o.d. (I)    -  No                Yes
and sewage treatment plants, standardization of cost
estimates, etc.)
* OSE's commercial department (billing, meter reading, etc.)   o.d. (I)    -  No                Yes
- OSE's deconcentration (creation of 4 interior regions)  o.d. (1)    -       No                Yes
11  Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems
A   Upgrading of Aguas Corrientes Treatment Plant
(Rehabilitation of sedimentation basins and filters,   volume  m3/d  from 444,000 to  from 444,000 to         Dec-96
construction of a gravity channel between "old" and"new"                    530,000           530,000
plant, instrumentation etc. to increase production capacity)
B  Restoring Capacity of Transmission Mains to Montevideo  length   km    35 km (2nd line)           -           cancelled
46 km (3rd line)        -           cancelled
C   Montevideo Distribution System
- Repair and replacement of pipes and valves            length    km           80               100           Jan-99
- Secondary chlorination facilities                       -        -    along 3rd and 4th  along 3rd and 4th  Oct-94
transmission    transmission main
main
- Macro- and micrometering and other installations     number    -           70,000           140,000          1994
D   Medium-size Cities
- Repair and replacement of pipes and valves           number   km             80             N.A. (3)        Jun-98
- Rehabilitation of Minas water treatment plant           -        -      Not foreseen          Yes           Dec-97
- Micrometering                                        number    -           30,000           60,000
E  0 & M Equipment
- pick-up trucks for pitometry                         number    -         Not defined           2            Mar-94
- excavator trucks                                     number    -         Not defined          36            Dec-95
- back-hoe excavators                                  number    -         Not defined           3            Sep-93
- compressors                                          number    -         Not defined           8            Oct-93
- two-way communication system                            -        -       Not defined          Yes           Aug-95
- meter reading equipment                              number    -         Not defined           I            Feb-92
F  Support Equipment
- remodeling of customer service area in OSE/Montevideo   -        -       Not defined          Yes           Aug-93
- new telephone system for customer service               -                Not defined          Yes           May-92
- new computer systems                                    -        -       Not defined          Yes           Dec-91
-remodeling of Carrasco regional office                   -       -       Not defined          Yes
- remodeling of westem regional office                    -        -       Not defined          Yes
- remodeling of warehouse + forklift, cranes etc.         -        -       Not defined          Yes
- 29 -



111I Expansion of Monitevideo Distribution System
- new distribution pipes                                 length   klm           40                43            Nov-93
- new houschold conncctions                             number    -            5,000            3,500          Nov-93
IV  Preparation of National Water & Sanitation Plan
A   National Plans
- Consulting services for 1990-95 invesiment plan          .        -          Yes              Yes (4)         reb-92
- Consultiig services for tariff studies                                       Yes              No (5)            not
completed
B  Feasibility Studies and Detailed Designs                    -        -          Yes             Yes (6)          Jan-99
Notes:
(I) o.d. = operational development
(2) OSE discontinued SANEPAR support Ibr finance/accounting in Jan-93 and contracted lJTE (thie state electricity company) to
provide a financial system
(3) Instead of replacing 0S kn of pipes, OSE implemented an integrated package of UFW reduction mewsurcs (replacements of
pipes and valves, repairs, leak detection, etc.)
(4) Instead of a 5-year investment plan, GTZ was contracted to prepare a long-term investment program
(5) The Ernst & Young tariff study contract was terminiated.
(6) Two Tahal contracts (Minas/Mercedes and Rivera/Melo), one LYSA contract.
-30 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study             Consultant  Study Objective               Actual Cost    Initiatioii   Ternmination f   Status
(in 000 USS)     Date         Datc
1) First technical  Sanepar    TA and tr aining for              1,434     Mar-87       Jun-92     Completed
cooperation                    improved labor productivity,
contract (original             operations, customer
+ extension)                   relations, and logistical and
admin systems.
2) Second           Sanepar    Same                              2,015     Dec-92       Oct-94     Completed
technical                                                                                          in
cooperation                                                                                        shortened
contract                                                                                           lorrm
3) Prcparation of    Individual   Elaboration of bid                 9      Jul-89       .lan-9()    Completed
Bid Documents                  documents for the
for Rehabilitation             rehabilitation of the 2nd and
of 2nd and 3rd                 3rd transmission lines for the
Transmission                   Montevideo System
Mains
4) Rehabilitation    Tahal     Study of the water systems         245       Jul-92       Jun-93    Completed
of Minas and                   in Minas and Mercedes
Mercedes Potable
Water Systems
5) Rehabilitation    Tahal     Study of the water systems          245      Jul-94      Aug-95    Completed
of Rivera and                  in Rivera and Melo
Melo Potable
Water Systems
6) Tariff Study     Ernst &    Study to review current and         161     Nov-92        Jun-92    Contract
Young     propose new tariff structure                                        terminated
for OSE
7) Audited        Tea Deloite  Auditing of financial               213     Aug-96        Jan-98    Completed
Financial          & Touche   statements
Statements for
Loan Accounts
and OSE
8) Preparation of    Individual   Elaboration of terms of            9     Aug-94        Jan-95    Completed
Bid Documents                  reference for the execution
for Unaccounted                of a program for UFW
For Water Study                reduction and control
9) Unaccounted     Lyonnaise   Design of UFW reduction             838     Dec-96        Jan-98    Completed
For Water Study    des Eaux    and control program for the
- Montevideo and               Department of Montevideo
Interior
10) Financial       U.T.E.    Design and installation of a       1,050     Dec-94       May-97    Completed
Management                     new financial management
System                         system for OSE
1 1) Long Term       GTZ       Development of long term            150     Feb-90        Jul-90    Completed
Investment Plan                investment plan for OSE
- 31 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 7: Implementation Schedule and Procurement Method
Component                     Bid Invitation Contract Signature  Completion  Procurement   Observations
month/year      month/year         Date        Method
A - Institutional Development
1. Technical Cooperation & Training
I'lanned                                     ----           May-87           ----       Other (a)
Actual
I) First contract: Sanepar                ----           May-87          Oct-94        Direct       SANEPAR
Contracting
2) Last contract: U.T.E.                  ----           Dec-94          May-98        I)ireclt        lTE
Contracting
2. P'roject Planining & Coordination
Plained                                     Oct-87          Dec-87           ----       Other (b)
Actual                                       ----           May-87         May-87          ----       SANEPAR
B - Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems
1. tUpgrading of Aguas Corrientes Treatment
Plant
Planned                                    Apr-88           Jul-88          Feb-89        ICB
Actual
I) First contract: SACEEM               Aug-89           Oct-89          Jul-90        LCB          Pilot plant
2) Last contract: Consorcio Idreco-Teyma  Nov-89         May-90          Dec-96         ICB      Aguas Corrientes
treatment plant
rehabilitation
2. Restoring Capacity of Transmission Mains
To Montevideo
Planned                                     Jan-88          Apr-88          Jun-88        ICB
Actual                                      Dec-92           ----             --          lCB         No contract
awarded, Sub-
component
dropped from
project.
3. Montevideo Distribution System
Planned                                    Nov-87        Feb-88/Jan-90    Mar-88/Feb-   ICB/LCB
90
Actual
I) First contract: Consorcio Teyma-ldreco  Nov-89        May-90          Oct-94        ICB          Secondary
chloriniation
facilities
2) Last contract: Subgrupo I y 11 - CITESA
Subgrupo II1 - Raul Clere S.A.    Aug-94       Mar-95          Jan-98        [CB        Replacement of
pipes (original
contract +
amendment)
4. Medium-Size Cities
Planned                                    Dec-89        Jan-90/Jan-93   Feb-90/Feb-      LCB
93
Actual
I) First contract: Consorcio Lavalleja   Dec-95          Sep-96          Jun-98        ICB       Pipe replacement
and leakage
control
2) Last contract: CIEMSA                 Oct-95           Jul-96         Dec-97         ICB       Improvements to
Minas water
treatment plant
5. 0 & M Equipment
Planned                                 Feb-gS/Sep-89   Apr-8S/Mar-90   May-8g/Apr-   ICB/LCB
90
Actual
I) First contract: Computer Center -     Dec-89          Aug-90          Apr-91        LCB          Purchase of
Urudata                                                                                            computer
- 32 -



cquipmenit
2) Last contract: Raycom                 Nov-90          Jul-94          Mar-95         ICB           Radio
communication
system
6. Support Equipment
Planned
Actual
I) First contract: RIORO                May-90           Oct-90         Aug-93         LCB       Rehabilitation or
"I'lanta Baja"
2) Last contract: FTV Ingenieria S.R.L.  Sep-91          Dec-92          Mar-95        LCB         OSE western
regional otfice
C - Expansion of Montevideo Distribution
System
Planned                                    Mar-88           Jul-88         Oct-88       ICB/LCB
Actial
I) First contract: Barbara - Eternit    Junl-89         May-90           Jln-92        ICB           Suplply
2) Last contract: CITESA - DESPAR        Dec-89          Oct-90          Nov-93        LCB          Civil works
D - Preparation of National Water and
Sanitation    Plan
1. National Plan 1990- 1995
Planned                                    Sep-89           Jan-89           ----       Other (b)
Actual
I) First contract: GTZ                    ----          May-91           Feb-92      Other (c)       German
Teclnical
Cooperation
(GTZ)
2) Last contract: Ernst & Young           ---             ----           Nov-95      Other (b)      Tarit}study
2. Feasibility Studies & Design
Planned                                     Jul-89         Nov-89            ---        Other (b)
Actual
I ) First contract: Tabal                 ----           Sep-92         Aug-93         Direct       I st. Tahal
Contracting     contract
2) Last contract: Lyonnaise des Eaux     Dec-96          Jun-97          Jan-99       Other (b)   Unaccounted-for-
water (UFW)
Notes:
(a) Twinning arrangement OSE/SANEPAR
(b) According to Bank Guidelines for consultant selection
(c) Bi-lateral cooperation Uruguay/Germany
- 33 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8: Procurement Method by Disbursement Category
(US$ Millions)
ICB        LCB       Other       Total
Civil Works
Planned                              9.3         5.0        1.5        15.8
Actual                               9.5         2.2        0.3        12.1
Equipment and Materials
Planned                              10.2        1.0        0.0        11.2
Actual                               14.4        0.1        1.3        15.8
Engineering and Technical Assistance
Planned                              0.0         0.0        3.7         3.7
Actual                               0.0         0.0        6.4        6.4
Total
Planned                              19.5        6.0        5.2        30.7
Actual                               24.0        2.3        8.1        34.4
- 34 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 9: Project Costs
(US$ Thousands)
SAR Estimate                        Actual            Change
Componeni/Subcomponent                       Local  Foreign    Total      rotal    Local   Foreigin  Total       %
(w/o col.) (w/ coil.)
A - Institutional Development
I.'Technical Cooperation &Training           375    1,125       1.500    1,744     275    4.005    4.280    145.4%
2. Project Planning& Coordination             180      120       300      349         0      250      250    -28.3%
Subtotal (A)                                555    1,245      1,800    2,093      275    4,255    4.53(1   116.5%
B - Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems
l. Upgrading orAguas Corrienites Treatmenit  2,100    1,400    3,500    4.069    3.879    4.477    8.356    105.4%
Plant
2. Restoring Capacity of Transmission Mains To    1,625    4,875  6,500    7,556      9        0        9    -99.9%
Montevideo
3. Montevideo Distribution System
Pipelines                                  667    2.233      2,900    3,371    3.336    1,144    4.480      32.9%
I-louse Connections                        437    1,463      1,900    2,209        0        0         0   -100.0%
Water Meters & Other Installations         414    1,386      1,800    2,093      735    3,951    4,686    123.9%
Subtotal (3)                              1,518    5,082     6,600    7,673    4,071    5.095    9.166      19.5%
4. Medium-Size Cities
Pipelines                                  276      924      1,200    1,395    1,010        0    1,010    -27.6%
[louse Connections                         115      385        500      581        0        0         0   -100.0%
Water Meters & Other Installations          92      308        400      465      280    1,586    1.866    301.3%
Subtotal (4)                               483    1,617      2,100    2,441     1.290    1,586    2.876     17.8%
5. 0 & M Equipment                            782    2,618      3,400    3,953       14    3,906    3,920      -0.8%
6. Support Equipment                          115      385       500      581    1,582       377    1,959    237.0%
Subtotal (B)                              6,623   15,977    22,600   26,273   10,843   15,442   26,285       0.0%
C-Expansion ofMontevideo Distribution           480      320        800      930    1,076      590    1,666    79.2%
System
D - Preparation of National Water and
Sanitation Plan
1. National Plan 1990 - 1995                  132      268       400      465       34       277      311    -33.1%
2. Feasibility Studies & Design               264      536       800      930       303    1,245    1,548     66.5%
Subtotal (D)                                396      804      1,200    1,395      337    1,522    1,859    33.3%
Base Cost                                      8,054   18,346    26,400   30,690   12,532   21,809   34,341
Physical Contingencies                          805    1,835      2,640
Price Contingencies                             503    1,147       1,650
TOTAL NET PROJECT COST                         9,362   21,328    30,690   30,690   12,532   21,809   34,341
Value added tax                                1,500
Interest on Bank Loan                                   1,000                                 1,000
TOTAL PROJECT COST                            10,862   22,328    33,190   33,190   12,532   22,809   35,341       6.5%
Notes:
(1) SAR total cost estimates given without and with contingencies.
(2) % change shows change with respect to contingency adjusted SAR amounts.
(3) Actual costs include value added tax.
- 35 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 10: Project Financing
SOURCE             SAR Estimate                    Actual               Change
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total         (%)
OSE           10.9      0.0      10.9      12.5      0.5      13.0        19.6
Bank           0.0      22.3     22.3      0.0      22.3      22.3        0.0
TOTAL         10.9      22.3     33.2      12.5     22.8      35.3        6.4
-36 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 11: Comparative Price Indices3
[         1987 1988 1989 1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995   1996   1997   1998
|Dollar    100  149  236  398   770 1,328 1,991 2,597 3,324  4,179  5,246  6,890
IPC        100  164  265  479 1,017 2,055 3,462 5,334 7,721  10,982 14,095  18,714
IGC        100  178  283  525 1,114 2,306 3,740 5,490 8,021  11,232 14,186  18,566
|UR         100  164  289  565 1,210 2,110 3,405 5,825 7,898  8,962  10,667  12,349l
Comparison of Indices
20000
15000
10000
5000
0
A    IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~)                ;         CP         C>9 ON  99) V39>9599o959
s IPC  +Dollar    IGC                UR: 
Notes:
IPC:         Uruguay Consumer Price Index
Dollar:      US$ Price Indices
IGC:         Construction Price Index
UR:          Inflation Adjusted Uruguayan Peso
3 Prepared by Alicia Arauijo, Economist, OSE Unidad de Estudios
- 37 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 12: Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Disbursement Category
CATEGORY           APPRAISAL    1st REVISION           FINAL          CHANGE
12/30/94        7/10/98            (%)
CIVIL WORKS            7.60             5.20            5.76            -24.2
GOODS                  10.00           11.10            10.73            7.3
SERVICES               3.70             5.00            4.81             29.9
INTEREST               1.00             1.00            1.00             0.0
TOTAL                  22.30           22.30            22.30            0.0
-38 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 13: Minimum Performance Targets
Target                         1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
Employees/b00       Target       12.10      11.60     11.10      10.70      10.20       9.8()      9.40
water connections
Real       11.80      11.30      10.27       9.60       9.50      9.20        8.90      8.80       7.90
Conniections witli    'arget    89.00%    90.00%    93.00%     93.00%    94.00%      94.00%     94.00%
Working Meter
(%)                  Real      86.36%     86.38%    86.49%     88.70%    91.81%    91.88%       88.20%    89.60%      92.81%
Accounlts           Tarrgel      3.00       2.80       2.50       2.50       2.50       2.50       2.51)
Receivabite
Real        3.23       2.20       2.40       2.30       2.70      2.80       2.90        2.6       2.10
Personiel           Target    60.00%     59.00%    59.00%      58.00%    58.00%      57.00%     57.00%
Expenses/Operatin
g Expenses           Real      57.80%     55.50%    56.70%     53.40%     53.80%     50.15%     46.20%Y.   57.19%     50.40%
Current             Target        2.50      2.50       2.50       2.50        2.5       2.50       2.50
Assets/Currenit
Liabilities          Real         1.52       1.50      2.70       2.40        2.6       2.00       L.S0       1.60       1.30
Operating           Target    79.00%      77.00%    76.00%     74.00%    73.00%      71.00%     70.00%
Expenses/Operatin
gincome              Real      83.00%     79.00%    64.41%    66.27%    63.24%       62.18%     69.22%     68.38%     71.86%
Intemally           Target    30.00%    30.00%    30.00%    30.00%    30.00%         30.00%     30.00%
generated
funds/total          Real      79.12%    83.25%    62.68%    64.13%    50.10%    92.61%         61.98%     71.88%     74.35%
investments'
4 In months of sales
5 Three year average
- 39-



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2911-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COIIIPLETION REPORT
Table 14: Recalculaton of Rate of Return
New Water Connections
La 2921
Incremental Returns of Project Funded Water Connections
(in US0080)                                                      1987       1988         1989        1990       1991         1992        1993        1994        1995        1996        1997      1998-2012
Connecdons
Connectionsswithout Project  Montevideo                        272.60      282.58      289.82      298.54      294.63      304.49      308.53      315.28      317.02      325.15       333.33       4,999.95
Interior                          269.78      280.14      29S.29      313.80      329.40      338.76      347.33      358.92      368.66       383.74      400.07       6,001.05
New Conn from Project       Montevideo (incremental)                                                             3.50
Investments               Total                                0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        3.50        3.50        3.50        3.50        3.50        3.50         3.50         52.50
Water Produced (ri3)        Niontevideo                     139,101.00   147,848.00   153,100.00   153,900.00   159,600.00   161,992.00   164,566.00   166,905.00   169,950.00   165,329.00   175,536.00   2,633,040.00
Interior                        77,747.00    78,701.00    80,900.00   82,600.00    86,900.00    90,000.00    92,372.00   94,87700   95,543.00    99,866.00   101,890.00    1,52S,350.00
Total                          216,848.00   226,549.00   234,000.00  236,500.00   246,500.00  251,992.00   256,938.00   261,782.00   265,493.00   265,195.00   277,426.00   4,161,390.00
Costs
Investment                  Total                                0.90        0.00        0.00     1,700.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00          0.00
Variable                    Chem                              1,827.71   2,030.33    2,114.49     1,566.57   3,235.2S    3,282.93    3,845.85    3,463.81     2,946.19    3,395.40    4,438.32      66,574.80
Power                            6,081.82    6,932.51    8,709.08    10,074.95   9,268.92    8,817.79    10,285.49    11,193.87    13,139.05    14,802.24    13,392.47  200,887.05
Materials                        2,415.15    2,835.52    3,106.69    2,563.57    3,259.51    4,422.81   5,387.27     6.038.S2    6,443.33    6,209.19    6,471.10      97,066.50
Priv. Contractors                2,582.25    2.811.75   3,467.52    4,1012.3    4,977.66    4,101.96    9,803.34    13,350.22    13,695.77    21,458.23    24,993.32  374,899.80
Admin Cost                       1,215.15    1,083.06    1,130.83    1,278.37    1,478.96    6,297.77   4,047.39     6,098.07    8,766.15    3,713.45    6,993.14     104,897.10
Personnel                       24,974.89   24,619.95    25,434.39    25,640.77    30,682.86    37,456.64    47,156.13    57,348.17  7,356.29    93,662.56    91,979.50    1,379,692.50
TotVar                          39,096.97    40,313.12   43,963.00   45,225.36    52,903.09   64,378.90    80,525.47    97,492.96    54,346.78   143,241.07   148,267.85    2,224,017.75
Variable Cost on Incremental Connections        0.00        0.00        0.00      295.06      348.40      427.44      503.51      276.00       703.75      704.22      10,563.25
Total Cost on Incremental Connections           0.00        0.00     1,700.00     295.06      348.40      427.44      503.51      276.00       703.75      704.22      10,563.25
Revenues                    Water                            44,966.67    44,039.07    43,025.16   49,272.89    64,027.86    78,210.22   101,201.49   134,549.87   155,186.41   174,576.35   192,750.45    2,891,256.75
Water Revenues on Incremental Connections       0.00        0.00        0.00      357.11      423.25      537.19      694.89      788.12      857.71      915.49       13.732.39
NetCashFloiv                Revenue-ProjCosts                    0.00        0.00        0.00    -1,700.00      62.05       74,85      109.75      191.38      512.12      153.95      211.28       3,16914
on World BnkIk Connections
[RR              9.78%             years -              25
NPV             -23.004            discount rate       10/



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table IS: Recalculation of Rate of Return
Additional Water Production from Aguas Corrientes Water Treatment Plant
Ln 2921
Incremental Retirn on Aguas Corrienites Improvements
(in USS'000)                                                  1987         1988        1989         1990         1991        1992         1993         1994         199S         1996 1998-2012
Water Produced (m3)        Montevideo                   139,101.000  147,848.000   153,100.000   153,900.000  159,600.000   161,992.000   164,566.000   166,905.000   169,950.000   160.600.000  2,254.414.400
Interior                      77,747,000    78,701.000   80,900.000   82,600.000    86,900.000   90,000.000    92,372.000    94.877.000   95,543.000    99,866.000  1.630,240.000
Incremental Water Produced from Project Investment                                                                                                4,729.000      534,159.786
Total Production             216,S48.000  226.549.000   234,000.000   236,500.000  246,500.000   251,992.000   236,938.0D0   261.782.000   265,493.000   265,195.000  4,438,814.182
Costs
Investment                                                   0.000        0.000       0.000        0.0        0.000 0000 0000 0000                         8,400.000       0.000            0.000
Variable                   Chem                           1,827.710    2,030.330    2,114.490   1.566.570    3,235.180    3,281.930   3,845.850    3,463.810    2,946.190    3.395.400       71,013.120
Power                          6,081.820    6,932.510    8,709.080   10,074,950    9,268.920  8,817.790    10,285.490    11.193.870    13.139.050    14,802.240  214,279.520
Materials                      2,415.150    2,835.520    3,106.690   2,563.570    3,259.510   4,422.810    5,387.270    6,038.820    6,443.330    6,209.190      103.537.600
Priv. Contractors              2,582.250    2,811.750    3,467.520   '4,101.130    4,977.660    4,101.960  9,803.340    13.350.220    15,695.770   21,458.230   399.S93.120
Admin Cost                     1,215.150    1,083.060    1,130.830   1,278,370    1.478.960    6,297.770    4,047.390   6,098.070    8,766.150    3,713450       111.890.240
Personnel                     24,974.890   24,619.950   25,434.390    25,640.770   30.682.860    37,456.640    47,156.130    57,348.170  7,356.290    93,662.560  1,471,672.000
TotVar                        39,096.970   40,313.120   43,963.000    45,225,360   52,903.090    64,378.900    80.525.470    97,492.960    54,346.780   143,241 070  2.372,285.600
Var. Cost for incremental water due to investrment                      0.000        0.000        0.000       0.000        0.000        0.000    2.554.298      296,165.805
Total Cost for incremental water due to investrnenl                     0.000        0.000        0.000        0.000       0.000     8,400.000    2,554.298      296,165.805
Revenues                   Total Water                   44,966.670   44.039.070   43,025.160   49,272.890   64,027.860   78,210.220   101,201.490   134,549.870   155,186.410   151.641.070  2,224,017.750
Rev/m3 prod                       0.207        0.194       0.184        0.208        0.260        0.310       0.394        0.514        0.587        0658             0.695
Revenue from incremental water produced due to investment               0.000        0.000        0.000       0.000        0.000        0.000     3,113 074     385,020.031
NetCashFlow                Revenue-Project Costs             0.000        0.000       0.000        0.000        0.000        0.000       0.000        0.000   .8.400.000      558.776        88.854.226
IRR               40.52%             year                25.000
NPV             13,938.590            discount rate        10/



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 16: Ex-Post Qualitative Review of OSE With and Without Project
Component                           With Project                     Without Project
A. Institutional  i) Twinning arrangements (coupled with equipmncnt of  i) UFW greater than current level as a rcsult
Dcvelopment        Component B) resulting in improvements in operations,  of haphazard approach to mainteniance and
maintenance and customer service. Maintenance crews  poor customer service.
reduced by 300, service calls increased from 70,000 to  ii) All operational responsibilities for the
110.000  per year; increased  from  5 to 25  the  interior are still concentrated in
receptionists that take customer requests; service orders  Montevideo. resulting in reduce customer
computerized and prioritized to so that work crews  responsiveness, increased repairs, and poor
attend  the  most pressing  problems  first.   For  investment planning.
procurement, inventory and stock control department.
streamlined work procedures. clear job descriptions and
new fork lifts made possible reductions in procurement
dpt. personnel from 190 to 87, as turn around on
materials orders are cut from 30-45 to 10-15 days.
ii) Decentralization process prepared by SANEPAR
provides groundwork for strengthening of regional
office.
B. Rehabilitation    i) Aguas Corrientes Treatment Plant production  i) Without this 23% increase in supply, the
of Water Supply    increased by 23%.                                 customers receiving service through the
Systems            ii) Replacement of 100 km of pipe helps contain   approximately 169,000 connections could
physical losses.                                  experience rationing.
iii) 140,000 new water meters helps limit commercial    ii) Without the pipe replacement,
losses.                                           deterioration results in increased physical
iv) Secondary chlorination facilities improve water  water losses and nuisance repairs.
quality by increasing chlorine residual.          iii) Without new meters, commercial losses
v) Integrated UFW reduction in Minas results in water    increase above the current level.
savings estimated at 18% of production each year.  iv) The regrowth of bacteria within the
vi) Upgrading of the Minas Water Treatment Plant  systems may cause water to fall below
expands capacity to meet growing demand,          drinking level standards, possibly placing
all Montevideo customers at risk for water
borne diseases.
v) By 1997, water losses in Minas are
estimated at over the 1987 level of 53% of
production.
vi) Minas water treatment plant capacity
deteriorates, reliability of service at risk for
30,000 customers.
C. Expansion of    i) 43 km of pipes and 3,500 connections provide service  i) 26,000 potential customers purchasing
Montevideo         to an additional 12,600 people. Transmission mains in    water from a vendor or stealing water from
Distribution       Pueblo General Artigas provide 13,400 people with  OSE.
System             access to connect to the piped water system.
D. Preparation of   i) Long term plan provides basic demand information  i) OSE continues to make investnent
OSE's Water        from which to drive overall investment planning.  estimates based on out of date demand
Supply and         ii) Diagnostic and feasibility studies provide ground  patterns, resulting in financing shortfalls
Sanitation Plan    work for investment priorities.                   and investment lags.
iii) UFW studies provide ground work for institutional   ii) Investment decisions made on political
focus of UFW reduction program.                   grounds resulting in improper sequencing of
large investments.
iii) Misplaced priorities for UFW reduction,
making UFW reductions resulting from
__________________  ._________________________________________ .physical works unsustainable.
- 42 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 17: Evolution of Tariff Structure and Levels
Change in Tariff Level
Year                  Ave. Water Tariff                      Ave. Water and Sewer Tariff
(UR$/m3)                                   (UR$SIm3)
Nominal          Real (1998UR$)*           Nominal            Real (1998URS)*
1988             0.1                   7.8                   0.1                    7.3
1989             0.2                   7.2                   0.2                    6.7
1990             0.4                   7.1                   0.4                    6.9
1991             0.9                   7.7                   0.9                    7.6
1992              1.7                  8.3                   1.7                     8.1
1993             2.8                   9.5                   2.8                     9.4
1994             4.9                  15.6                   4.8                    15.3
1995             7.0                  15.3                   6.7                    14.6
1996             9.7                  15.0                   9.1                    14.0
1997             12.5                 15.0                   11.5                   13.8
1998             13.8                 13.8                   12.7                   12.7
*Based on Uruguay CPI (yearly average)
MAJOR CIIANGES IN TARIFF STRUCTURE: 1998-1999
Feb '90     OSE authorized to levy additional charges to recover 50% of actual investment cost from localities
that receive investment and up to 100% in beach front areas. Starting in Aug. '90, OSE levied
additional charges in Maldonado and Salto for 8 years, in Punta del Este for 4 years, and in
Montevideo for 5 years.
Jun '90     The variable charge on sewerage was increased from 50% to 100% of the variable charge on water,
the fixed charge on water increased by 15%.
May '91     Over the period from May to Aug., the variable charge on water for residential customers
consuming between 0 and 5m3/month was gradually increased by 54%.
Aug '92     The price of a household connection was reduced by 50% for house not larger than 80m and not
located in a beach front area.
May '93     For residential consumer, the charge for consumption below 15m3/month was increased by 36%.
Jan '95      Began to levy an addition charge to recover investment cost from all localities provided with water
supply from the Montevideo system. Charge to continue for period of 8 years.
Sept '96    Began to charge connections small bore sewer systems the same fixed charge as for traditional
sewerage and the variable charge of 50% of the variable charge on water.
May '97      Began to levy an additional fixed charge for sewerage on commercial establishments which
produce food which the establishment sells directly to the public.
The variable charge on sewerage for residential customers was reduced from 100% to 80% of the
variable charge on water.
The variable charge on sewerage for residential customers connected to small bore systems was
reduced from 50 to 40% of the variable charge on water.
Sept '97    The variable charge on sewerage for domestic customers connected to the traditional sewer system
was reduced from 80% to 60% of the variable charge on water.
The variable charge on sewerage for domestic customers connected to small bore systems was
reduced from 40% to 30% of the variable charge on water.
Jul '98     The variable charge for industrial customers and large consumers was reduced.
- 43 -



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table IS: OSE's Cash Flow Statements
1987              1988                 1989                 1990                 1991                 1992                 1993                 1994                  1995              1996               1997
SAR       Actual SAR        Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR         Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR    Actual    SAR    Actual
lnconme Before Depreicotion       9,290             9.950     9.736     11.270     8.509     12.620     11.909    14.150    26.054     15.850    36.120     17.390    48.483      19.640    76.374    2.1 170    60.817             50.004            61.946
Interest on Iv. And Other Nonoper    0.000          0.000    -0.813      0.000    -0.665      0.000   -I l0ll                -8.704               -7.204               -9.618              -20.498              .20.88I            -16.123           -23.120
Intemnal Cash Generatiots         9.290             9.950     8.923     I 1.270    7.844     12.620     0.892    14.150      17.350    15.850    28.916    17.390    38.865    19.640       55876      22.170    39.936             33.081             38.826
Amortization                      0.940             0.390     0.212      0.350     0.207      0.350     0.202      0.200     0.197      L.880      1.447     1.880      2.610      1.9800    0.183      1.880      1.898             1.893              1.861
InterestEFxpetise                 0.380             0.340     0.166      0.510     0.121      0,750     0.104      1.020     0.157      1.200      1.024     1.290      1.062      1.290     7.849      1.230     2.436              4.342              4.755
TotaliDebt Service                1.120             0.730     0.380      0.860     0.328      1.100     0.306      1.220     0.355      3.080      2.471     3.170      3.671     3.170      8.031      3.110     4.334              6.235              6.616
Working Capital Needs             6.490             5.170    -1.697    -0.560    -0.078      -1.740     .1.138    .2.150     9.479    -0.650    10.653       0.120     19.040     0.220    -11.066      1.280   -24.668              5.975            -30.678
Other Assets and Liabilities Needs                            0.671                 1.823               -3.785              -14.773               -2.928               -0.979                3.650               26.579             -6.803              7.402
Contribution to Investment        1.690             4.050     9.569     10.970     5.771     13.260     5.508    15.060    22.288      13.420    18.719    14.110    17.132       16.250    55.261     17780    33.691              27.674             55.485
levestrment Cost, IBIlD Project   0.230             3.370                4.7S0                5.A70                S3.80                5.030     4.508      3.650      7.029      1.020     4.197      0.860      1.973             2.346
Investment Cask Othrer Proect    11.820             9.500    10.322      8.000     8.438     17.00)0    11.600    17.000    28.940     38.000    17.479    20.000    21.451    23.000       51.843     26.000    34.437             72.349            84.602
Other Works
Ponated lnvestnenets
Other I
Other 2
Investments Subtotal                                         10.322                8.438               13.600               28.940               21.987                28.4810              56,040               36.430             74.106            84.602
Capitalized interest
Total Investment Interest        12.050            12.870    10.322    12,750      8,438    223170      11.600    22.830    28.940    23.030    21.987    23.650    28.480    24.820        56.040     26.860    36.410             74,706             84.602
Required Financing               10.360             8.020     0.753      1.780     2.667      8.930      6.092     7.750      6.652     9.610      3.267     9.540     11.348      8.570     0.779      9.080      2.719            47.032             29.117
Disbursements, 3BRW Loan          0.140             2.090                3.440                3.720                3.830                3.490      3.928     2.640      8.024      L.470     3.202      0.710     2.108             -0.156              0.300
D3isbursemsents, Co-financier Loan
D3isbursemennts, Other Loan I                                 0.892                0,324                 6.822               9.918      5.000      0.403     6.000      0.660      7.000     2.700      7.000     3.976              2.810            308932
Disbursements, Other Loan 2                                                                                                                        0.000                                     0.360                 13195            40.997
Disbursements, Other Loan 3
'Total Loans                      0.140             2.090     0.892      3.440     0.324      3.720      6.822     3.830      9.91%     0.490      4.333     8 640      0.605     8.470      6.262      7.710      7.280            43.652             30.92
Total Contributions               6.710             7.390                4.250                3.~000               2.910                           0.000                0 000                0.000                0.0O
Total Finnocing                   6.850             9.480     0.892      7.690     0.324      6.720      6.822     6.740      9.918     0 490      4.333     8 .640     8.685     8 470      6.262      7.710      7 280            43.652             30 932
Change in Cash                   -3.510             0.650     0.339      5.920    -2.343     -2.190      0.730    -tOlD0     3.26,6    .1.120      3.064    -0.910    -2.664      -0. I D    5.483     -1.370     4.560             -3.380              3 834



VATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 19: OSE's Income Statements
(US$ millions)
19N7               19SS                1989                1990                1991                1992                 1993               1994                 1993                196                 1997
SAR      Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR      Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR       Actual
WaterRRcenuces                 47.370    44.966    49.820    44.039    31.430    46.025    52.880    49.727    53.030    64.027    37.930    79.210    61.010   101.201    64.210   134.349    67,560   135.196             174.376              192.750
Sc,,c,agcRosenues               2.490     2.519    2.610     2.453     2.730     2.563     2.990     4.502     3.100     6.76s      3.350     g.637     3.620    12410      3.910    17.339     4.210    20.013              17.949               17.124
Connecton Fees                  0.060     1.460    0.040     2.037     0.030     1.9S9     0.030     2.115     0.030     3.932      0.030     5.431     0.030     6159      0.040     7.487     0.040     9.597               9.343               8.203
Rconnction Fccs and Other       2.270     2.340    2.380      1.977    2460      2.398     2.530     2.S01     2.630     5.134      2.770     8.2S3     2.920    10t0o      3.070    15.193     3.230    20.007              2S.426               11.473
Oposidng Rean.us               52.190    51.2t7    54.850    50.527    36.650    52.976    39.330    59.147   60.790    79.863     64.100   100.563    67.380   130.622    71.220   174.370    73.030   204S 06             230.297             235.350
Personnel Costs                24.320    24.974    24.960    24.619    25.140    25.434    25.070    25.640   25.650    30.682    26.180    37.456    27.330    47.156    27.S60    57.34S    29.650    73.756               93.662              91.9179
ChemicalCosIo                   1.900     1.827     1.830    2.030     1.S20     2.114     1.790     2.566      1.790    3.235      1.S20     3.281     1.S20     3.845     1.S20     3.463     1.830     2.946               3.393               4.43S
Poeae Costs                     6.620     6.0S1    6.050     6.932     6.960     0.709     6.930    10.074     6.990     9.260      7.250     8.S17     7.520    10.285     7.800    11.193     7.930    13.139              14.802               13.392
Matedals. Fuel and Oil          2.700     2.413    2.980     2.835     3.170     3.106     3.420     2.563     3.590     3.239      3.970     4.422     4.220     5.397     4.530     6.038     4.770     6.443               6.209               6.471
Pdiate Conlatctots              0.S30     2.5S2    0.910     2.811     0.990     3.467     1.070     4.101      1.170    4.977      1.290     4.101     1.390     9.803     1.490    13350      1.370    13.693              21.43S              24.993
OtherExpenditu;s andtTaiTs      3.400              3.760               3.920               4.230               4.400                4.860               3.200               3.580               5.S70
Losses on Revivables            3.139     0.314    3.620     0.497     3.400     0.504     3.210     1.013     3.040     0.906      2.SB0     0064      2.700     1.613     2.490     0.703     2.250    11.60S              23.696               13.9S9
Adminslatti Costs                         1.215               1.0S3               1.130              1.278                1.47t               6.297               4.047               6.09t               t.766               3.713                6.993
Total Operating Costs          4Z.90    39.411    44.900    40.791    45.390    44.467    45.710    47.238     46.640    53.S10    48.260    64.442    50.190    82.139    31.3N0    98.196    52.870   132.335              166.937             162.237
IncomelBcfoec pneclation        9.290    11.875    9.950     9.735    11.270     8.509    12.620    11.909     14.150    26.033    15.t50    36.120    17.390    4S.493    19.640    76.374    22.170    72.451              63.339               73.293
Depreciation                    7.700     7.073     8.430    0.527     8.90      7.903     9.130    10.023     9.540    14.166     10.160    13.29S    10.970    13.600    11,010    18.157    12.690    21.477              19.060               19.360
Oputating Incons               L.90    t4001       1.330     1.20S    2.470     0.603     3.4S0     1.8t5      4.610    11.887     5.600    22.821     6.420    32.8S2     7.030   3S.216      9.J40    50.973              44298                53.933
Intetest Expetses               0.180     0.263    0.340     0.168     0.510     0.121     0.750     0.104      1.020    0.157      1.200     1.024     1.290     1.061     1.290     7.S48     1.230     3.223               6.787               6.667
Interest Eamed on Inscstm8nts   0.000     1.444    0.000      1.318    0.000     1.192     0.000     1.379     0.800      1.072     0.000     1.698     0.000     1.118     0.000     1.199     0.000     1.315               1.291               2.695
Foreign Exehange Losses         0.000              0.000               0.000               .000                0.000                0.000               0,000               ll000               0.000                        -9285               -13.409
Othcr Non-Operating Income                2.635              -2.130              -18,37            -12.397              -9.776               -1.842              -3.607              -7.799             -10.912
IncomeTax                                                                                                                                     7.061               7.129              13.S98              20.375              16046                18.663
Propcrt Tax                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.212                3360
Net Income                      1.140     2.347     1.180    10.227     1.970    -0.180    2.740    -9.236      3.600    3.024      4.480    14.393     5.140    22.2'2     6.340    29.S69     8.250    15.975               9.459               14327



WVATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 20: OSE's Balance Sheets
(USS million)
1987                1988                1989                 1990                 1991                199?                 1993                 1994                 1995                 1996                 2997
SAR       Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR       Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR        Actual    SAR        Actual
Fixed Assets                     411.000   385.115   431.620   392.668   447.990   398,684   465.340   446.134   488.560   552.609   522.830   637.523   569.130   776.311t  622.080   884.778   657.150   977.484                   1010.209             1046.390
Accumulated Depreciation         212.760   186.262   225.440   191.754   236.490   198.065   247.990   213.384   263.120   26t.439   282.480   308.011   303.330   384.303   325.760   439.213   349.860   485.220                    509.432              525.503
Net FiKed Assets                 198.240   198.853   206.280   200.914   22 1.500   200.619   217.350   232.750   225.450   291.169   245.350   329.512   265.800   392.008   286.320   445.566   307.290   492.264                   500.377              502 887
Work in Progress                   8.460     9.025     8.930      6.624     9.630     5.931     18.930    13.436    29.010    22.467    29.870    24.573    30.690    48.906    32.480    92.775    35.690   100.947                  150.426              192.10a
Accounts Receivable Long                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26.720
Uncollectables                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -26. 720
Cast                               3.110     4.486     3.760      4.624     9.680     2.297      7.490     3.040     6.490      6.106     5.360     7.369      4.460     4,706     4.360    10.288      2.980    14.701                22.255               122818
Accounts Receivable5eevices       13.240    11.591    13.830    I2.511    13.310    14.507    12.680    13.908    12.030    20.117    12.750    31.890    13.510    51.277    14.320    62.208         25.260    65.662                81.218               56.192
Uncolleerables                              -0.863              -0.926               -0.912               -1.201               -3.766              -2.230               -2.451               -2.160              .10.372              -31.439              .13.608
Inventory                          9.000     7.768    10.D00      6.837    20.000     7.335      9.580     8.520     9.870    15.003      8.650    20.208      8.270    31.383     7.790    28.807      8.360    35.667                50.394               38.963
Other Current Assets 6I                                                                                                                                                  0.000                O.DOo
Other Cureent Assets 62                      0.563                0.374               0.297                1.026               2.774                5.000                4.398                3.432               20.865                7.538                5.402
Total Current Assets              26.350    23.544    27.600    23.428    32.990    23.524    29.750    25.292    28.390    40.434    26.760    62.247    26.140    09.3123    26.470   102.474    26.510   226.523                   228.856               99.768
Total Assets                     232.060   232.423   242.720   230.956   254.220   230.074   266.030   271.478   282.850   344.070   302.980   421.333   322.620   534.625   345.270   644.245   369.500   729.733                    777.597              812.762
Long Tern Debt Beginning Balanc    2.780      2.982    4.400      1.770     7.570     1.563    10.940      2.044    24.570      2.674    21.180     4.330    27.940      6.052    34.520    12.933    40.350    26.837                 22.031I              22.824
Long Term Debt,.incremrental Revaulation                                              0.683                0.827                3.203               4.331                8,685                5.902                6.085                2.635                2 304
Long Terr Debt, Revalued, Ending Balanc       1.982               1.770               2.246                2.872                5.777               8.661               14.736               18.735               22.922               24.685               24.129
Long Term Debt, Current Portion    0.390     0.212     0.350      0.207     0.350     0.202      0.200     0.197     1.880      1.447     1.800     2.620      2.880   182.700      2.880     1.898      1.760     2.893                1.861                2.049
Lang Term Debt, Lang Terin                   2.770                1.563               2.044                2.674                4.330               6.051               14.553               16.837               22.029               22.824               22.079
Other Lang Terms Liabilities                 0.467                2.359               2.002                6.996               13.811              14.2100              112.443              10.074                6.648               43.843               39.4211
Total Long Terse Liabilities       2.390     2.238     4.130      2.923     7.220     3.045    10.740      9.670    22.690    18.141    19.300    20.151    26.060    25.996    32.640    26.912    38.590    27.677                   66.667               81.490
Acwounts Payable                   8.000     5.608     4.430      8.384     4.470    12.129      5.300    12.288     5.400      9.513     5.520     8.866      5.650     9.839     5.840    24.935      6.070    13.384                29.260               23 022
Long TermDebt, Current Portion     0.390     0.212     0.350      0.207     0.350     0.202      0.200     0.297     2.880      2.447     1 880     2.610      1.880     0.283     2.880      2.890     1.760      2.893                1.861                2.049
Other Current Liabilities          0.590     6.365     0.620      5.275     0.620     4.116      0.630     5.393     0.650      8.816     0.670    17.333     0.700    27.631      0.730    36.75       0.750    59.384               44 727                32 023
Sbort Tern Loans                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            21.572
Total Cunrent Liabilities          8.980    12.186      5.390    13.866     5.440    16.448      6.130    17.878     7.920    29.776      8.070    28.809     8.230    37.673      8.450    53.407      8.500    74.661                75.849              78.666
Total Liabilities                 2 1.370    24,423     9.520    16.789    22.660    29.493    16.870    27.548    20.610    37.917    27.370    48.960    34.290    63.699    41.090    80 328        47.270   202.338               142.516              160.155
Equnity                          220.690   216.999   233.180   214.167   241.460   210.581   249.160   243.930   262.240   306.153   274.610   372 373   208.330   470.956   30-.1.80   563.927   322.320   617.3%6                  635.081              652 606
Total Equity and Liabilities     232.060   231.423   242.710   230.956   254.120   230.074   266.030   272.478   282.850   344.070   301.980   422,333   322.628   334 623   345.270   644.245   369.500   729.733             -     777.597              812.762



WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 2921-UR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 21: Staff Inputs
Stage in Project Cycle               Staff Weeks           US Dollars
Preparation                             143.2                   232,911
Supervision                             107.3                   355,068
ICR Preparation                           4.1                     8,925
TOTAL                                   254.6                   596,904
-47 -



Azreenwt                S cteDnCovenmnt                 Shti         Otgrl Fulfill   Description of Covensat               Comments
ilKf                        fDate
Project Agreement       2.01 (b)              5             C                         Establisih Project Committee and
Director
Project Agreement       2.05 (a)              5             C                         Annual action plan (paris A, B) 6/30
annually
Project Agreement       2.06 (i)              5             C          06/30/1989     Study on personnel management                                                                      IV
r~ r
Project Agreement       2.06 (ii)             5             C          06/30/1989     Project of new legal set-up
Project Agreement       2.07                  5             C          09/30/1988     Training Program                                                                               >   t 
-.I
I                Project Agreement       2.08 (i)              2             CP         06/30/1990      Tariff study                        Study terdinated before conpletion. OSE as                    >
4:4                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~contr'acted lidw tariff study.  0o-i
00                                                                                                                                                                                           r    = 
Project Agreement       2.08 (ii)             2            CP          09/30/1996    Implementation of recommendations    Tariffleels adjlsted, bit only minor changes in    vq
oftariffstudy                       tariffstnhclure
Project Agreement       3.01(b)               2             C                         Carry out Action Plan and achieve
operational performance targets                                                               
annutallvy
Project Agreement       3.03                  5             C                         Adequate insurance                                                                  r       
00
Project Agreement       4.01 (b) (ii)         I             C                         Financial statemcnts anid atidit report             .3
6/30 annually                                                                                      t
Project Agreement       4.01 (c) (iv)         I             C                         Audit Report SOE 630 annuallyC
Project Agreement       4.02 (a)              2             C                         Financing of 30D% of 3 vear a%erage  74% for latest 3 yr. a crage
capital expenditures from internal
sources 6/30 annually
Ptoject Agreement       4.02 (b)              2             C                         Forecast for compliance with 4.02 (a)
for current and coming year 10/01
annuallv



Aereement               Section            Covenant      Status        Orizinal Fulfill    Descrintion of Covenant                           Comments
TvDe                          Date
Project Agreement       4.02 (c)               2             C                           Take all measures to comply with 4.02 (a)           Action required only if 4.02 (a) not
complied with
Project Agreement       4.03(a)                2            NC                            Minimum working ratios for each year 6/30 annually  2% over target
Project Agreement       4.03 (b)               2             C                           Forecast compliance with 4.03 (b) for current and   Forecast for 1999 is 56%
coming year 10/01 anstially
Project Agreement       4.03 (c)               2           NYD                           Take all measures to comply with 4.03 (a)
Project Agreement       4.04 (a)               2            NC                           Current ratio not less than 2 5, 6130 annually      1.3 in 1997
Project Agreemenit      4.04 (b)               2             CP                          Forecast of compliance withi 4.04 (a) for current and  Comipliance not forecasted in coming
coming year 10/01 anntually                        year, though projecting improvement in
ratio                                          i
Loan Agreement          3.01 (b) (i)           2             CP                          The borrower shall take whatever actioi necessary to  Study terminated before completion.      >
enable the fonnulation of a tariff policy and structure  OSE has since contracted new tariff  -3
as required under Parts D.3 and D04 of tie project  study                                         i-
Loan Agreement          3.01(b) (ii)           2             C                           The borrover shall take all action necessary to enable
OSE to comply vith its obligations under sectiotis 
4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of the Project agreemetit                                                 0   -
Loan Agreement          3.01 (c)               2             C                            Ensure that OSE attains the targets withi respect to  Accounts receivable w as2.1 in 1997
accounts receivable of the public sector set forth in
Schedule 3.
Loan Agreement          3.01 (d)               2             CP                           In order to enable OSE to complyv ith its obligations    Bank expressed dissatisfaction with
pursuant to Section 2.08 (ii) of PA, Borrowver shall  tariff study                             Z   ^
afford Bank an opportunity to express its views onj
tariff policy or structure or procedures                                                      M
Loan Agreement          3.02 (a)               3             C                            Borroxwer shail transfer proceeds of the Loan to OSE                                           00
for purposes of camrvimsg out the Project uttdcr a                                                 >
Subsidiary Loatn Agreement tinder sainc tenins amid
conditionis applicable to the loan
Loan Agreement          3.05                   5             C                            Borrower to take necessany steps to enable OSE to
carry out anid implement, in accordance wvith Section
2.06 of PA, thc recommendations of the program
referred to in Part A of the Project
Loan Agreement          4.01                   I             C                            Borrower shall maintain separate records amid accounts
to reflect the Borrower's operations vith respect to the
Project and send audit report on Special account and
Project accounts to the Bank 6/30 annually



Appendix A
"OBRAS SANITARIAS DEL ESTADO" (OSE)
(STATE WATERWORKS)
REPORT ON PROJECT COMPLETION
LOAN 2921-UR
URUGUAY
INTRODUCTION
An outstanding feature of the legal system applying to the
Uruguayan waters is the concurrent jurisdiction of different
state authorities. This is the result of territorial or functional
decentralization associated with an extremely low allocation
of legal powers and jurisdictions to the Administration of
State Waterworks, even in the fields where the law expressly
provides for its specific duties. According to the Uruguayan
legislation, the Executive, through the Department of
Housing,   Territorial   Regulations   and   Environment
(MVOTMA) is the leading authority on drinking water and
sanitation matters. Upon initiation of the Project, the "Water
Authority" in charge was the Department of Transportation
and Public Works (MTOP). The jurisdiction of this
Department on practically all these matters was transferred to
MVOTMA upon its establishment. There was a change in the
administrative scenario of the relations between OSE and the
Executive. Although this change did not have a significant
-50-



impact, it called for a period of learning and internalization of
the coordination bureaucratic mechanisms.
At the time of designing the project, the participation of
private entities in the area of public utilities (drinking water
and sanitation) was practically non-existing. However, private
entities are currently involved in this sector and a concession
is in process that would incorporate another private firm to
this sector. OSE must address this situation using the same
legal tools and applying the same principles that were
established at its inception, almost 50 years ago. In spite of
the strengthening sought and materialized through the project,
no guaranty exists that OSE may succeed. This reality should
be considered at the time of evaluation: it would be a great
mistake to weigh the results against the governmental policies
on public utilities since 1985. However, it is vital to keep
them in mind for future actions.
From this standpoint, the brief analysis that follows strictly
sticks to the policies and mission statements set forth at the
time of formulating the project. Although the project's goals
were achieved later than expected, physical targets can be
considered satisfactorily met. However, institutional targets
were not as satisfactory as expected.
-51-



1. PROJECT GOALS, CREATION, DESIGN AND SIZING
The project's general goals were OSE's updating and
reorganization with a view to the reduction of operating costs
and an increase in productivity.
Although for the most part the goals set by the program were
accomplished, their implementation did not follow strictly the
previously established time schedule.
It should be noted that the only physical target that could not
be met, not even partially, was the coating of the Td and 3rd
pumping line. Both the Bank and OSE agreed to cancel this
work after considering the high costs involved.
With regard to institutional development targets, these were
addressed as scheduled through the implementation of a
twinning program with SANEPAR, which included several
projects. Although  these  projects  were  based  on  an
appropriate selection of their individual scope, the activities
developed within each project failed to boost by themselves a
significant improvement in OSE' global management.
The Project provided for the formulation of a proposal to
amend OSE's Institutional Act but without stating any
orientation therefor. Anyway, notwithstanding the fact that
the bill drafted and referred to the Executive was not passed
by the Legislative, the possibility of rethinking OSE as a
substantially different organization, or of reorganizing OSE
and providing it with the necessary tools to act efficiently in
-52-



an entirely different scenario, was not considered at all.
Consequently, the possibility of giving OSE more autonomy
and certain specific powers, and of taking remedial actions
for specific issues that had been identified as obstacles for its
management was barely suggested.
2. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
The implementation of the project was hindered by the
following drawbacks:
3 The Ministry of Transportation and Public Works, the
authority to which OSE reported at the time of subscribing
the loan agreement, was appointed as the borrower's
representative. That appointment led to the subsequent
formulation and execution of an ancillary agreement
between MTOP and OSE. If we also consider that during
the performance of the loan OSE was under the authority of
the Ministry of Housing, Territorial Regulation and
Environment, we can conclude that despite the efforts
made, the implementation of the project was affected by the
above situation, although not to a great extent.
* At the time of subscribing the loan agreement the bidding
documents for most of the projects were not ready. This
situation delayed the disbursement process.
* One of the aspects contemplated in the project was the
functional reorganization of OSE, with a view to remedy
-53-



one of OSE's most conspicuous and long-standing
deficiencies, which was aggravated during the de facto
period.  The  project's  reorganization  activities  were
constantly impacted by external events alien to OSE:
A) Reinstatement of employees.
B) Act No. 16.127.
C) Retirement incentives.
D) Amendment to the social security system.
3. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
Two stages can be identified to evaluate the Bank's
performance during the life of the loan agreement:
(i)The first stage includes several preliminary steps leading to
the execution of the loan agreement. During this stage, the
Bank performed satisfactorily and co-operated with OSE in
the project's design. As an exception, it should be
mentioned that the deadlines the Bank accepted for OSE to
complete the different projects, as evidenced later, were not
real.
(ii)The second stage includes the actual implementation of the
project. During this stage the Bank made some changes,
mainly in connection with the supervisory staff. Although
these changes did not have a severe impact on the
implementation of the program, they did pose some minor
-54-



inconveniences derived from the failure to remember some
decisions adopted during the program.
4. O.S.E.'s PERFORMANCE
During  the  implementation  of  the  project,  O.S.E.'s
performance was irregular:
* The initial phase -1988 to 1990- was very slow as a
consequence of the delay in the development of the
projects. Thus, during the first 3 years the disbursements
were made at a very low rate.
* Afterwards, the implementation developed quite normally,
especially in connection with civil works and equipment.
There were some difficulties to implement the projects in
the institutional sector; these difficulties could be explained
in the light of the scenario outlined in the introduction of
this report, and of the ups and downs of a twinning program
with another Company operating an organization of the
same sector, but belonging to a country with different laws,
culture and usages.
5. RECOMMENDATIONS
For future operations, it would be advisable:
* To have available as many projects as possible to enter bids
at the time of subscribing the loan agreement, thus avoiding
delays in the performance of the loan agreement.
-55-



* That OSE, if possible, directly represents the borrower in
order to avoid bureaucratic procedures.
* To prepare a list of indicators to facilitate a more efficient
follow-up of the program's development and impacts.
6. LESSONS
The following lessons should be recalled and kept in mind for
future operations:
* Twinning program with SANEPAR: programs with such a
vast scope are difficult to monitor. Less ambitious goals
and clearly identified areas facilitate the results. Once the
initial goals have been achieved, the program's scope can
be extended.
3 As already stated, it is very important to have available as
many projects as possible to enter bids at the time of
subscribing the loan agreement. Delays in the performance
of the loan will thus be avoided and OSE will not have to
pay unnecessarily for a longer period the fee corresponding
to the preliminary agreement.
* It is important to clearly identify a list of indicators for the
proper monitoring of the overall performance of the loan
agreement, and not only the physical or accounting
progress.
-56-



7. FUTURE ACTIONS
During 1999 and until the year 2003, OSE will carry out its
management activities in compliance with the following
general policy definitions established in Resolution No.
1011/96 of the Board of Directors and included in the Budget
per Program approved by the Executive through Executive
Decree No. 301/98 of October 28, 1998:
* To preserve OSE as a nationwide public utility showing a
clear territorial decentralization in service rendering and in
resource management. The territorial decentralization is
based on the four Upcountry Regions established in R/P No.
7/94 of August 11, 1994 and in the Regional Arrangement
of the Montevideo System.
* To apply the public work and service concession system to
accelerate investments and the implementation of projects
necessary to improve and extend the drinking water supply
and sanitation services. This system is currently in progress
in the department of Maldonado.
* To hire third parties to provide ancillary services in order
to meet the requirements.
* To develop a corporate-oriented management to assure the
recovery of the global operating costs and to improve OSE's
investing capacity.
* To make drinking water and sanitation services available to
individuals from all social classes and geographical
-57-



locations, even if this has a negative impact on OSE's
financial results. These operations will be carried out along
with national and local authorities or with customers.
-58-



Appendix B
Administracidn de la Obras Sanitarias del Estado
|[ Z L1  M               Of/cina Proyecto Desaro/lo de O.S.E.
Montevideo, 28 de julio de 1999.-
Ec. Anna Wellenstein
Especialista de Desarrollo Urbano
Grupo de Finanzas, Sector Privado e Infraestructura
Oficina Regional para America Latina y el Caribe
del Banco Mundial
Ref: Informe Final de Ejecuci6n del Prestamo N 2921-UR
Por la presente le hacemos Ilegar nuestros principales comentarios con respecto a
la evaluaci6n elaborada por el Banco Mundial para el Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n
del Sector de Agua (Prestamo 2921-UR).
*  Las apreciaciones que se realizan sobre la importancia de los objetivos y
resultados alcanzados por el prestamo, estan determinadas por los cambios en
la empresa y el contexto de su actuaci6n que se dieron durante el muy
prolongado periodo que medi6 entre la preparaci6n del prestamo y la
conclusi6n de su ejecuci6n. Si hubo fracasos o metas incumplidas, los mismos
deberian ser juzgados como compartidos entre todos los actores involucrados.
Durante ese periodo las inversiones de OSE, como se indica en el informe del
Banco, experimentaron un fuerte crecimiento y las preocupaciones de la
empresa se concentraron en la soluci6n de los problemas de infraestructura de
servicios. No obstante, desde 1996 se ha hecho evidente una preocupaci6n
creciente por la mejora de gesti6n y los problemas de orden comercial y
financiero, que ha pasado a ser la preocupaci6n dominante desde este mismo
afio, y una de los aspectos mas importantes para el futuro de la empresa. Por
otra parte, la politica de subinversi6n, hoy ya revertida, que caracteriz6 la
gesti6n del organismo durante decadas , ha sido la causa y la consecuencia de
las permantes angustias financieras.
*  Es de conocimiento del Banco que el servicio que presta OSE es juridica y
doctrinariamente un servicio puiblico, y que en esa medida se corren los riesgos
asociados a la existencia de estructuras monop6licas de producci6n de bienes y
servicios. Pero ello no implica que partiendo de esa definici6n juridica y
doctrinaria la empresa este condenada a su propia ineficiencia e ineficacia y
aislada de los problemas de competitividad (por ej: intervenci6n del sector
privado      en       concesiones       de       obras      puTblica).
-59-



Administracdon de la Obras Sanltarlas del Estado
It 61 ~I HOflcina Proyecto Desarrolo de O,S.E.
En primer lugar, OSE no fija la tarifa de los servicios que presta. Los
incrementos tarifarios son aprobados por el Gobierno Central atendiendo a su
politica de empresas piiblicas. Durante la mayor parte de 1997, todo 1998 y lo
que va de 1999, los incrementos tarifarios se ajustaron a la evoluci6n de la
economia nacional, e incluso el Directorio aprob6 una reducci6n de la tarifa de
saneamiento y de los grandes consumidores y de las tasas de conexi6n, que
implicaron una disminuci6n del orden de U$S 10.000.000 anuales de ingreso
de la Administraci6n y por lo tanto de egreso de los clientes.
Seguin informes propios del BIRF las familias (que representan aprox. el 90%
de los clientes de nuestra empresa), pagan por concepto de tarifa menos del 1%
del ingreso familiar definido por el INE (Instituto Nacional de Estadistica),
cuando los parametros intemacionales 6ptimos situan el guarismo en el 5% del
citado ingreso.
En estas condiciones, la mejora de la gesti6n es una necesidad para que la
empresa pueda mantener sus niveles de operaci6n e inversi6n, e incluso para su
propia supervivencia.
Es probable que OSE deba mejorar ciertos mecanismos que promueven la
competitividad, pero no es exacto que su posici6n juridica y doctrinaria la haga
indiferente a este tipo de requerimientos.
* Si bien es cierto que no existe un ente regulador del sector, el Gobierno Central
(especialmente a traves de la Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto de la
Presidencia de la Repiiblica) interviene en forma efectiva y findamentalmente,
en la determinaci6n de la tarifa, las decisiones sobre inversiones y acceso al
credito y el control de ciertos indicadores de gesti6n.
* Durante los ultimos anos OSE ha tenido que evolucionar desde una modalidad
de gesti6n que priorizaba la ampliaci6n de la cobertura de sus servicios sobre
las consideraciones de tipo econ6mico y la calidad de la gesti6n en aspectos
diferentes a los de ingenieria, a un mayor balance entre los objetivos de tipo
social y empresarial ( Ley Organica N 11907 del 19/12/52 en su Art. 30
establece: "... La prestaci6n del servicio de obras sanitarias, y los cometidos
del organismo, deberan hacerse con una orientaci6n fundamentalmente
higienica, anteponiendose las razones de orden social a las de orden
econ6mico.").  En ese sentido la Administraci6n ha promovido varias
iniciativas en materia de gesti6n empresarial como ser el ajuste parcial de su
Ley Organica (ver Anexo I) y la incorporaci6n en el Decreto Tarifario de
mecanismos que posibiliten y den mayor seguridad y flexibilidad a la
recuperaci6n de inversiones (ver Anexo II).
-60-



-___-                Administracilon de la Obras Sanitarias del Estado
Oflcina Proyecto Desarrollo de O.S.E.
La RD 1011/96 recoge la politica empresarial que esta liderando ese camnbio y
plantea nuevas definiciones sobre la misi6n y la visi6n de la empresa, que han
servido de guia a los proyectos especificamente orientados a la mejora de la
gesti6n.
Ing. Natan Wajner                           Ing. Arturo Castagnino
Director                                   Gerente General
Of. Proyecto Desarrollo de O.S.E.                        O.S.E.
Wilson Elso Goni
Presidente
O.S.E.
-61-



PROYECTO DE REHABILITACION DEL; SECTOR DE AGUA
PRESTAMO UR-2921
MISION DE PREPARACION DEL INFORME DE CONCLUSION DEL PROYECTO
(ICR)
AYUDA MEMORIA
Montevideo, 20 de marzo de 1999
1.    Una misi6n del Banco Mundial integrada por la sefiora Anna Wellenstein (ICR
task manager) y el sefior Franz Drees (ingeniero) visit6 Uruguay del 14 de marzo al 20 de
marzo de 1999 con el prop6sito de preparar el Informe de Conclusi6n del Proyecto de
Rehabilitaci6n y Suministro del Sector de Agua, Prestamo UR-2921.
2.    La misi6n agradece la hospitalidad y la atenci6n con que los representantes de la
Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto (OPP) y de las Obras Sanitarias del Estado (OSE)
los recibieron y atendieron durante el transcurso de la mnisi6n. La lista de las personas
que participaron en las reuniones se presenta en el Anexo 1.
3.    Las conclusiones preliminares de la misi6n se presentan a continuaci6n. El
Informe Final de Conclusi6n del Proyecto incluiri una evaluaci6n del Proyecto por el
Gobierno del Uruguay y comentarios del Gobierno de Uruguay sobre la evaluaci6n del
Banco.
4.    Con base en  la docurnentaci6n  disponible, la  informaci6n adicional
proporcionada por OSE y las discusiones sostenidas con los distintos actores
involucrados en la ejecuci6n del prestamo, la misi6n concluy6 que el proyecto cumpli6
con la mayoria de sus objetivos. En cuanto a las metas fisicas establecidas al inicio del
pr6stamo, el proyecto logr6 (i) asegurar el abastecimiento de Montevideo con agua
potable a corto y mediano plazo mediante una rehabilitaci6n/expansi6n de la planta de
Aguas Corrientes, cuya capacidad aurnent6 de 440,000 rn3/dia a 540,000 m3/dia y (ii) una
mejora importante de la calidad de agua suministrada a traves de la instalaci6n de
unidades de recloraci6n en el sistema de transmisi6n. Ademas, el proyecto posibilit6 la
rehabilitaci6n de 100 kmn. de tuberia en la red de Montevideo, la compra y instalaci6n de
200.000 medidores en todo el pais, una campafia de reducci6n de agua no-contabilizada y
mejoras en la planta potabilizadora de Minas, 43 km. de extensiones de red y 3.500
nuevas conexiones en los barrios de Villa Garcia, Pajas Blancas y Santa Ana en la Regi6n
Metropolitana de Montevideo, asi como la construcci6n de sedes de operaci6n en la
Regi6n Metropolitana y de equipamniento para las areas de operaci6n de Montevideo y del
Interior del Pais. Cabe resaltar que los precios de construcci6n aumentaron mucho en el
transcurso del proyecto y s6lo la no ejecuci6n del sub-proyecto B2 (rehabilitaci6n de las
lineas de transmisi6n II y III), debido a su alto costo, permiti6 alcanzar substancialmente
las metas fisicas de los demas sub-proyectos.
-62-



5.    Aunque el contrato de cooperaci6n OSE-SANEPAR no consigui6 cambiar
significativamente la situaci6n institucional de la empresa, la misi6n considera que se
produjeron resultados importantes en determinadas areas, entre ellas las de operaci6n y
mantenimiento, micromedici6n, atenci6n al cliente y suministros. El impacto de la
cooperaci6n en las areas de planeamiento de proyectos, gesti6n financiera y recursos
humanos fue minumo.
6.    De acuerdo con la informaci6n suministrada por OSE, durante los aAos de
implementaci6n del Proyecto la Empresa sobrepas6 las metas de empleados por mil
conexiones de agua y mantuvo sus inversiones financiadas a traves de su generaci6n
interna de fondos, a un nivel substancialmente superior al 30% establecido en el Acuerdo
de Prestamo. OSE no alcanz6 las metas establecidas para conexiones de agua con
medidor funcionando, aunque en los hltimos tres anios su tendencia mejor6 en esta Area.
OSE no mostr6 el mismo nivel de progreso en terminos de reducci6n de cuentas no
cobradas, activos corrientes/pasivos corrientes y gastos operaci6n/ingresos operaci6n.
Ademas, OSE tuvo dificultades constantes en emitir sus balances auditados en el tiempo
acordado con el Banco (seis meses despues del cierre del afno fiscal). Sin embargo, la
misi6n constat6 con satisfaccion que OSE ha hecho un progreso significativo en este
sentido gracias a un nuevo sistema de informaci6n. Tambien tuvo atrasos similares hasta
1996 en entregar balances auditados de la cuenta especial y en las otras cuentas del
Proyecto.
7.    El proyecto se implement6 en un periodo de 10.5 afios (2.5 afnos mas de los
previstos en el appraisal), despues de dos extensiones en la fecha de clausura del
prestamo. El ritmo lento de desembolsos se debi6 sobre todo a atrasos importantes en la
preparacion de los diseflos ejecutivos y de los documentos de licitaci6n y en la ejecucion
de los procesos de licitaci6n. La misi6n manifest6 su complacencia con la forma en que
la TJnidad de Gerenciamniento del Proyecto ejerci6 sus funciones durante la ejecucion del
proyecto. La relaci6n de trabajo entre OSE y el Banco se mantuvo a un nivel constructivo
durante todo el tiempo de ejecuci6n del proyecto, periodo durante el cual ambas partes
enfrentaron los retos propios de su trabajo con flexibilidad y dedicaci6n.
8.    La misi6n no pudo revisar el informe de evaluaci6n del Proyecto correspondiente
a OSE, por cuanto este aiun no se encontraba terminado. La misi6n enfatiz6 que tal
resumen debera ser entregado al Banco antes del 14 de mayo, e indic6 que un borrador
del informe del Banco le sera entregado a OSE antes del fin de abril, fecha a partir de la
cual OSE tendrA un mes para emitir sus comentarios al Banco.
Anna Wellenstein
Banco Mundial
-63-



Anexo 1:  Lista de Participantes
Organizaci6n            Persona                  Cargo
OSE/Montevideo          Natan Wajner             Director del Proyecto de
Desarrollo de OSE
Gonzalo Sintas           Sub-Director del Proyecto de
Desarrollo de OSE
Rosa Sosa                Jefa de Contabilidad y Operaci6n
del Prestamo
Raul Pais                Gerente, Regi6n Metropolitana
Estela Soria             Jefa, Unidad de Estudio
Alicia Araujo            Economista, Unidad de Estudios
Elena Garmendia          Contadora, Unidad de Estudios
Santina Caro            Ingeniera, Unidad de Estudios
Daniel Siccardi          Jefe de Divisi6n Micromedici6n
Martes Navarrete         Presidente de la Comisi6n
Asesora de Adjudicaci6n de
Licitaciones/Asesor de la Oficina
Proyecto Desarrollo de OSE
Julio Guerra             Jefe de Planeamiento y Control
Stock
Luis Ismnael Corto       Sub-Gerente Departamento
Saneamiento
Carlos Ons               Consultor
OPP                     Graciela Perez Montero   Directora, Divisi6n Empresas
Pfiblicas
-64-



IBRD 30465
8                                                    1                                                  154'
58  tellaUnl6n,   \i_                ~56                                              URUGUAY
jIloaUni6n.
ARTIGArtgS                                                                   WATER SUPPLY
Ac ix    AR f I G A S                                        REHABILITATION PROJECT
z   17  .  *  ('Rivero                                     -         MAIN ROADS
_   tiuci6( o+1  \                                                                                    .-.   - RIVERS
2/Con. s . l                                  .                                 4 5                               0     TOWNS
/  ostitucion  'o               /g                                ,,
z        .:>4                   - - -  0                                t          9   r,       ^  <>                        vs@   NATIONAL CAPITAL
I t :                      '                                                 '          /                    A     BRIDGES
(0)         II I, I V' 1-..   AIRPORTS
Cl::           )           oo                           Tactaremb-                           Vlcladero4.K                             PORTS
6tB                                                        / Ac-gu6 ~  .- JDEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
'N     /  'b  'i0                          8 gt >9                                          19 Piedrog  6  X            / A 9 ttjuv^tW -*-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-32,                                                           Solo
1                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
2)   I_-hilDgtJczy  (,, ,,    -   4                ~'5-                               8 M
).tPc/s-nd1                              Paso Te,J .d \CL    .V'   M[.      (Vg         CER RO            M dLARGO                     .'l
,     Young  RI o. Tolo                        -    ,                                                             Ro j 
ER OI 0              TO                                                                           Tc ora /
Mercede ') 'N  E G  R 
(!/  . .   ' . -  <'   -       <        ~~~D U R A Z N O                     T R E I N9tA              ES
Fray Bentok                                     T                     R .                                        A                    -        TTey
nS.riaa                                                               de . 3 lY                                                       Th ie boundaries, uolo,derommhotios
t i s o R1sA N O mTrinidedi \ > eJ 9 ; andthais6Ynnapiearonotimpfyon"10~~~~~~on his  p d n.frnpy, o th
j  SORIANO  .'                                             14                               [ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ar fThe World Bork Group, any
i  79olor < S   8 F L OtE  S  .  \F L 0  R I D A          -                                                                  Sh legal stof
ardona~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~trioy,nyd-nno
....    x       .5>                                                eprona  ' L AVA  LL LJ A                14  -" La Coronilla cepace of such boundaries.
Nueva Polmira          2A                            IRO  C H 
-34~         a                 O                    Jy S E        Florida                                              CI         * .  1                          BR_  I
COLON~~~IA  j            MJoanom,i5                                                                                   BOLIVIA
11    ~            ~Mayo  ~                           Minoay?
'4AyNELONES                                  /R.                                 CHILE '
SColonr'usdel  O>               <",CIEs'0
Sacramento      Juan Is                                                                                   ,/svl
4      Lacaze                                    0             
0       II      20      30       40      50 Miles                                                                                                         UR UGA MALDONADOY  oPaloma  /
I    I    i    I    I    I    I    I         I  MONTEVIDEO 8,>,,    Atiantida            'K      4Maldo                                             AGENTINA   Mostvidoo
0        20        40         60        80 Kilometers               Montevideo                     bpourta del Este
0  60  4~  561            4A 5l' 99
AUGUST 1999



