Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2921 UR
               (Water Supply Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
         ADMINISTRACION DE LAS OBRAS SANITARIAS DEL ESTADO
                       Dated April 14, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April  14,  1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and ADMINISTRACI¡N
DE LAS OBRAS SANITARIAS DEL ESTADO (OSE).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between RepÎblica  Oriental  del  Uruguay  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount in  various  currencies  equivalent  to  twenty-two million
three hundred thousand  dollars  ($22,300,000),  on  the terms and
conditions set forth in the  Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that OSE agree to  undertake  such  obligations toward the Bank as
are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  OSE,  the  proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will  be made available to OSE on the
terms and conditions set forth  in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS OSE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Page  2
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  OSE   declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, and to this end,  shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative,  financial,  engineering  and  public  utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  In order to carry  out  the  Project, OSE shall maintain
the Committee at all times until  a date six months after the date
of  the  last  withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account.  The  Project
Director, shall at all  times  be  a  person  to be employed under
terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  and  possessing
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 2.02. OSE shall enter  into,  and duly perform all of
its obligations under,  the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree,  OSE  shall  not take or concur in
any action which  would  have  the  effect of changing, assigning,
amending, abrogating or waiving  the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provisions thereof.
     Section 2.03. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment.
     Section 2.04. OSE shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Section 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08  and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
     Section 2.05. (a) OSE shall  prepare and furnish to the Bank,
by September 30 in each year until and including the year in which
the Closing Date  falls,  Annual  Action  Plans, acceptable to the
Bank, in respect of Parts A and B of the Project for the following
calendar year  and  describing  the  specific institutional reform
activities and rehabilitation works to  be carried out during such
calendar year.
     (b)  OSE shall carry out the corresponding Annual Action Plan
in accordance with the terms thereof.
     Section 2.06. OSE, in cooperation with the Borrower and after
an exchange of  views  with  the  Bank,  shall:  (i) no later than
June 30, 1989, carry out,  or  cause  to  be carried out under the
Second Twinning Contract,  and  furnish  to  the  Bank, a study on
improving the efficiency of  its personnel management and staffing
policies, for the purposes of preparing the program referred to in
Part A of the Project, and (ii)  no later than June 30, 1989, take
all  action,  including  the  preparation  and  submission  to the
Page  3
Borrower's Executive Branch  (for  its  further subdivision to the
Borrower's  Congress),   of   draft   legislation,   necessary  or
appropriate to  enable  and  facilitate  the  carrying  out of the
program referred to in Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.07. OSE shall,  not  later than September 30, 1988,
or such other date agreed between the Bank and OSE, furnish to the
Bank a detailed training  program  under the Project (particularly
under Parts A and B  thereof),  in form and substance satisfactory
to the  Bank,  for  the  twenty-four  month  period commencing two
months after the date on  which  such  program is furnished to the
Bank.
     Section 2.08. OSE shall: (i) not later than June 30, 1990, in
order to carry out Parts  D.3  and  D.4 of the Project, complete a
study, satisfactory to  the  Borrower,  the  Bank  and OSE, on its
tariff structure and policy; and  (ii) not later than December 31,
1990, and  after  giving  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity to
express its views in  respect  of  any tariff policy or structure,
and procedures, formulated under Parts D.3 and D.4 of the Project,
respectively, take  all  such  action  on  its  part  as  shall be
required towards putting  into  effect  such policy, structure and
procedures.
     Section 2.09. (a)  OSE  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  and  other  matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  OSE shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by OSE of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of OSE
     Section 3.01.  (a)  OSE  shall  carry  on  its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, engineering  and  public  utility  practices  under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     (b)  OSE shall,  in  carrying  out  its  operations, take all
action necessary to carry  out  the  applicable Annual Action Plan
and to achieve the  Operational  Performance  Targets set forth in
Schedule 3 to this  Agreement  as  such  targets may be changed by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank and OSE as a result of
an exchange of views  pursuant  to  Sections  9.01  (a) (i) of the
General Conditions and 2.09 (a) of this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. OSE shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
     Section  3.03.  OSE   shall   take   out  and  maintain  with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. OSE shall  exercise  all  its rights and comply
with all of its  obligations  under  the First and Second Twinning
Contracts and, except  as  otherwise  agreed  between the Bank and
OSE, OSE shall  not  amend,  terminate,  revoke, abrogate or waive
such Contracts or any provision thereof.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  4
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  OSE  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its  operations  and   financial   condition,  including  separate
accounts to reflect expenditures in respect of the Project.
     (b)  OSE shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, OSE shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
OSE shall produce, for  each  of  its fiscal years commencing with
its fiscal year beginning on  January 1, 1988, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less  than  30% of the annual average of
OSE's capital expenditures incurred,  or  expected to be incurred,
for that year, the  previous  fiscal  year  and the next following
fiscal year.
     (b)  Before October 1 in each of its fiscal years, OSE shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared  by OSE and satisfactory to the
Bank, review whether it would  meet  the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in respect of such  fiscal year and the next follow-
ing fiscal year and  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  a copy of such
review upon its completion.
Page  5
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  OSE  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for OSE's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  OSE  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures (including, without  limitation,  reductions in the level
of total working  expenses,  changes  of  the  tariff structure or
adjustments of the levels of its rates or requests for such change
or adjustments, if warranted) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations,  including  connection  and re-
                    connection fees,  consumer  deposits,  if any,
                    and  cash  consumer  contributions  in  aid of
                    construction, net non-operating income and any
                    reduction in working  capital other than cash;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                    including administration, adequate maintenance
                    and  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes,
                    (excluding  provision   for  depreciation  and
                    other non-cash operating charges) debt service
                    requirements,   all   cash   distributions  of
                    surplus required  by  the Estatutos, increases
                    in working capital  other  than cash and other
                    cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
         (ii)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
        (iii)  The term "working  capital  other  than cash" means
               the difference  between  current  assets, excluding
               cash, and current  liabilities  at  the end of each
               fiscal year.
         (iv)  The term "current assets  excluding cash" means all
               assets other than cash  which could in the ordinary
               course of business  be  converted  into cash within
               twelve  months,   including   accounts  receivable,
               marketable  securities,  inventories  and  pre-paid
               expenses properly chargeable  to operating expenses
               within the next fiscal year.
          (v)  The   term   "current    liabilities"   means   all
               liabilities which will  become  due  and payable or
               could under circumstances  then  existing be called
               for  payment   within   twelve   months,  including
               accounts  payable,   customer  advances,  including
               contributions in aid  of construction, debt service
               requirements, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
               and dividends.
         (vi)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund  payments,  if  any)   of  principal  of,  and
               payments of interest and other charges on, debt.
        (vii)  The   term   "capital   expenditures"   means   all
               expenditures incurred on  account  of fixed assets,
               including interest charged to construction, related
Page  6
               to operations.
       (viii)  The term  "total  working  expenses"  has  the same
               meaning  stipulated   in   paragraph   (d)  (i)  of
               Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
         (ix)  Whenever for the  purposes  of  this Section and of
               Section  4.04  of   this   Agreement  it  shall  be
               necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
               Borrower, debt  payable  in  another currency, such
               valuation  shall  be  made  on  the  basis  of  the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
OSE shall  maintain,  for  each  of  its  fiscal  years  ending on
December  31,  1988,  December   31,   1989,  December  31,  1990,
December  31,  1991,  December   31,   1992,  December  31,  1993,
December 31, 1994 and December  31,  1995 a ratio of total working
expenses to total operating  revenues  not higher than 0.81, 0.79,
0.77, 0.76, 0.74, 0.73, 0.71, and 0.70, respectively.
     (b)  Before October 1 in each of its fiscal years, OSE shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared  by OSE and satisfactory to the
Bank, review whether it would  meet  the requirements set forth in
paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  fiscal  year  and  the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish  to the Bank the result of
such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  OSE  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for OSE's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  OSE  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures (including, without  limitation,  reductions in the level
of total working  expenses,  changes  of  the  tariff structure or
adjustments of the levels of its rates or requests for such change
or adjustments, if warranted) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "total   working   expenses"  means  all
               expenses   related    to    operations,   including
               administration, adequate maintenance, and taxes and
               payments in lieu of  taxes, but excluding provision
               for depreciation and interest  and other charges on
               debt.
         (ii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources  related  to operations, including
               connection and re-connection fees.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
OSE  shall  maintain  a   ratio   of  current  assets  to  current
liabilities of not less than 2.5.
     (b)  Before October 1 in each of its fiscal years, OSE shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared  by OSE and satisfactory to the
Bank, review whether it would  meet  the requirements set forth in
paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  fiscal  year  and  the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish  to the Bank the result of
such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  OSE  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for OSE's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  OSE  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures (including, without  limitation,  reductions in the level
of total working  expenses,  changes  of  the  tariff structure or
adjustments of  the  levels  of  its  rates  or  requests for such
changes or  adjustments,  if  warranted)  in  order  to  meet such
requirements.
Page  7
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "current assets" means cash, plus "current
               assets excluding cash", as  the  term is defined in
               paragraph  (d)  (iv)   of   Section  4.02  of  this
               Agreement.
         (ii)  The terms "current  liabilities"  and "debt service
               requirements"  have  the  same  meanings stipulated
               under paragraph (d), (v)  and (vi), respectively of
               Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of OSE thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify OSE thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the  provisions  of  this Agreement, as the
same may be amended  from  time  to  time,  shall continue in full
force and effect  notwithstanding  any  cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For OSE:
          Administraci‡n de las Obras Sanitarias del Estado
          Carlos Roxlo 1275
          Montevideo
          RepÎblica Oriental del Uruguay
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               OSE                             UY 22054
               Montevideo, Uruguay
Page  8
     Section 6.02. Except if  otherwise  provided  for in the Loan
Agreement or in this  Agreement,  any action required or permitted
to  be  taken,  and  any  document  required  or  permitted  to be
executed, under this Agreement  on  behalf  of  OSE,  or by OSE on
behalf of the Borrower under  the  Loan Agreement, may be taken or
executed either jointly by  OSE's  President  and any other person
appointed by OSE's Board  for  purposes  of  this Section, or such
other person or persons as  the former shall designate in writing,
and OSE shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  sufficient  evidence of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Everardo Wessels
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    ADMINISTRACI¡N DE LAS OBRAS SANITARIAS DEL
                       ESTADO
                    By /s/ Jorge Caviglia
                                         Authorized Representative
                    By /s/ Walter Toledo
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
                    Description of the Project
     The main objectives of the  Project are to help modernize and
restructure OSE, aiming at reducing operating costs and increasing
productivity so as to enable  OSE to operate without subsidies and
to provide adequate  services  to  low-income groups at affordable
prices. Other specific Project objectives comprise:
          (i)  meeting  short-to   medium-term   water  demand  at
               minimum cost through  water  savings resulting from
               rehabilitation of  facilities  and the introduction
               of  new  operational,  maintenance  and  commercial
               practices, as well  as,  through expansion of water
               provision resulting  from  improved water treatment
               installations, rehabilitation of transmission mains
               and  expansion   of   the  Montevideo  distribution
               network;
         (ii)  improving water quality and service reliability;
Page  9
        (iii)  improving OSE's  financial  performance by reducing
               recurrent costs, particularly  through increases in
               labor productivity; and
         (iv)  implementing a  revised  sector strategy, including
               cost  recovery   policies   and   a  cost-effective
               investment plan to  meet  the  long-term demand for
               water and sewerage services.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and OSE may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Development of OSE
     Carrying out a program  of institutional development of OSE's
capabilities  with  emphasis   on   entrepreneurial  policies  and
practices, an increase of  labor  productivity, the improvement of
water and  sewerage  systems  operations,  and  the maintenance of
adequate customer relations, all  of  the foregoing to include the
improvement of the  required  logistic and administrative systems,
such  as  personnel  management,  transportation,  purchasing  and
inventory management, and accounting  and information systems. All
of  the  above  will  be  achieved  by  means  of:  (i)  technical
cooperation and  training  under  corporate twinning arrangements,
(ii) technical assistance and  cooperation through the utilization
of consultants'  services  for  planning  and  coordination of the
activities  under  the  Project,  and  (iii)  the  preparation and
submission  to  the  Borrower's   Executive  Branch,  for  further
submission to the  Borrower's  Congress  as  appropriate, of draft
legislation to improve and supplement  a draft already prepared by
OSE.
Part B:   Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems operated by
          OSE
Rehabilitation of the Montevideo Water Supply System
(distribution aspects only excluding rehabilitation of
production and transmission aspects).
1.   Reparation  and  replacement   of   about  80  kilometers  of
pipelines and acquisition  of  large  water  meters and valves and
accessories and installation thereof,  all in the Montevideo water
distribution system.
2.   Setting  up  of   systems   for   preventive  and  corrective
maintenance for  the  Montevideo  water  distribution  system, and
acquisition and  utilization  of  vehicles,  equipment,  tools and
civil works services therefor.
Rehabilitation of Water Supply Systems in Medium-size Cities.
3.   Reparation  and  replacement   of   about  80  kilometers  of
pipelines to  be  distributed  amongst  the  Medium-size Cities in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank and OSE.
4.   Acquisition of large water meters and valves and accessories,
and installation thereof.
5.   Setting-up of  systems  for  preventive  and corrective main-
tenance for the water supply  sytems, and for the sewerage systems
maintained by OSE, all in  Medium-size Cities, and acquisition and
utilization of vehicles, equipment, tools and civil works services
therefor.
Rehabilitation of aspects of OSE's Operation of Water
Supply Systems other than the aspects covered in 1 through 5
above or in 9 and 10 below.
6.   Setting-up of  a  system  for  routine  surveys  of waterflow
measurements, and acquisition  and  utilization  of pitometers and
Page  10
accessory equipment therefor.
7.   Enhancement of the relation between  OSE and its customers by
means of upgrading  OSE's  communication  practices and procedures
pertaining thereto, updating of  consumer  files, and upgrading of
billing and  collection  systems,  including  the  acquisition and
utilization for the  above  of  data  processing equipment, and of
water consumption  meters  to  be  installed  in Montevideo (about
70,000)  and  in  the  Medium-size  Cities  (about  30,000  in the
aggregate).
8.   Setting-up of logistic  and  administrative systems for OSE's
operations, including personnel  management, transportation, goods
purchasing   and   inventory   management,   and   accounting  and
information systems.
Rehabilitation  of   production   and   transmission   aspects  of
Montevideo Water Supply System
9.   Technological upgrading  of  the  Aguas  Corrientes Treatment
Plant to increase its  production  capacity  from about 440,000 to
about 530,000 cubic meters per day.
10.  Lining and partial replacement of two transmission mains from
the plant referred to  in  9.  above to the Montevideo reservoirs,
the mains in  question  being  the  Second  and Third Transmission
Lines with a diameter  of  30  and  36 inches, respectively, and a
total length of about  35  and  about 46 kilometers, respectively;
this portion  of  the  Project  will  include  the rehabilitation,
comprising but not limited to  replacement,  of a short section of
the First Transmission Line which runs parallel to the Second Line
in Las Piedras zone.
Part C:   Expansion of the distribution aspects of the Montevideo
          Water Supply System
     Construction of  about  40  kilometers  of water distribution
networks, about 5,000 house-connections, and standpipes.
Part D:   Preparation of OSE's Water Supply and Sanitation
          Plan for the years 1990 to and including 1995.
     Formulation  of  the   following,  including  utilization  of
consultants' services as  and  when  needed  for  purposes of such
formulation:
1.   Demand projections and service  targets and standards for the
period.
2.   A cost-effective investment program  for the period, designed
to meet the projected  demand  for  water and sewerage services in
the long-term.
3.   A tariff policy  and  structure  adequate:  (a) to reflect as
accurately as possible the economic  cost of meeting the projected
demand in  all  of  the  Borrower's  territories  for water supply
services and for sewerage  services  in places outside Montevideo;
(b) to provide entity  (including  OSE) providing such services by
the public sector in a financially self sufficient manner; and (c)
to ensure that the  aforesaid  services  will be affordable to the
Borrower's population which  actually  or  potentially may benefit
from such services.
4.   Procedures for tariff  changes  and  charges  adjustment on a
regular basis to reflect  inflation,  or cost reductions resulting
from increased labor and technological efficiency, or both.
5.   A manpower development  plan  for  the  sector, including the
revision of institutional aspects related to the execution of such
plan.
6.   Feasibility  studies  and  detailed  engineering  designs for
Page  11
expansion,  beyond  that  resulting   from  the  Project,  of  the
Montevideo Water Supply System, and for other projects included in
the investment program referred to in 2 above.
                     *     *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 2
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Civil works and goods shall be grouped to the extent possible
so as to form bidding packages estimated to cost not less than the
equivalent of $1,000,000 and $200,000, respectively.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Uruguay may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Subject to the provisions of  paragraphs 2 and 3 below, civil
works and goods  estimated  to  cost  less  than the equivalent of
$1,000,000  and  $200,000,  respectively,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with  procedures  satisfactory to the Bank,
to the extent that the aggregate of the contracts so awarded shall
not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000 in the case of civil works
and the equivalent of $1,000,000 in the case of goods.
2.   Subject to the provisions  of  paragraph 3 below, civil works
and goods estimated to cost  less  than the equivalent of $200,000
and $50,000, respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of  comparison  of  price quotations solicited from a
list of at least three qualified contractors (in the case of civil
works) or suppliers  (in  the  case  of  goods) eligible under the
Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Bank; provided, however, that,  the  aggregate of the contracts so
awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000 in the case of
civil works, and the equivalent of $200,000 in the case of goods.
3.   Civil works estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of
$50,000 may be carried out by force account, up to an aggregate of
$1,500,000 equivalent.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract  for civil works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent  of $500,000 or more, and $50,000
or more, respectively, the  procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of  the  contract  required  to  be  furnished  to the Bank
Page  12
pursuant to said paragraph 2  (d)  shall  be furnished to the Bank
prior to the  making  of  the  first  payment  out  of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  3  to the Loan
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  10%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist OSE in  the  carrying out of Parts A, B.6,
B.7, B.8 and D of the  Project and in the supervision of construc-
tion under Parts B and C  of the Project, OSE shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with  principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on  the  basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                             Performance Targets
                    Year (as of December 31 in each year)
                      1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Ratio of employees    12.6  12.1  11.6  11.1  10.7  10.2   9.8   9.4
     per water
     connection1
Houses with work-     88    89    90    93    93    94    94    94
     ing meters
     expressed as
     a percentage
     of house with
     water connections
Accounts               3.2   3.0   2.8   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5
     receivable
     net of bad-
     debts provi-
     sion (in
     terms of
     months-
     sales)2
Page  13
__________________________
1/ The ratio between the average number  of house connections served by OSE
   divided by one thousand,  and  the  aggregate average of OSE's employees
   during the year in question.
2/ The difference between the aggregate amount of accounts receivable as of
   December 31 in  the  year  in  question  minus  the  amount of bad-debts
   provision as of the same  date  should  not exceed the average aggregate
   amount billed during  each  of  the  three  last  months  of the year in
   question multiplied by the factor corresponding to such year.
                      1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
Personnel expendi-    60%   60%   59%   59%   58%   58%   57%   57%
tures (including
salaries, wages,
per-diem, bonuses
and the OSE's
contribution and/or
retirement funds
and/or medical
services) expressed
as of percentage of
total working expenses3
__________________________
3/ As the term "total working  expenses"  has been defined in paragraph (d)
   of Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
