                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR1831



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-57638)



                                         ON A

                                     GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 13.49 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                     GOVERNMENT OF SOUTHERN SUDAN

                                         FOR A

            LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                December 23, 2011




Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCE4
Africa Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective December, 2011)

                              Currency Unit = SDG
                                US$ 1.00 = 2.67

                                FISCAL YEAR

                             January 1- December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAHWs     Community Animal Health Workers
CPA       Comprehensive Peace Agreement
DSP       Directorate of Special Projects
DVS       Directorate for Veterinary Services
ESMF      Environment and Social Management Framework
FPP       Final Project Paper
GoSS      Government of Southern Sudan
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MARF      Ministry of Animal Resources and Fisheries
MDTF-SS   Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan
MoFEP     Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MVWMP     Medical and Veterinary Waste Management Plan
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
OLS       Operation Lifeline Sudan
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PDO       Project Development Objective
PFMU      Project Financial Management Unit
PSC       Project Steering Committee
RPF       Resettlement Policy Framework
SDARF     State Directorate of Animal Resources and Fisheries
SMAARI    State Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Resources and Irrigation
TA        Technical Assistance
ToT       Training of Trainers
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
VSF       Veterinaire San Frontieres


    Vice President:         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
    Country Director:       Bella Deborah Mary Bird
    Sector Manager:         Karen McConnell Brooks
    Project Team Leader:    Abel Lufafa
    ICR Team Leader:        Abel Lufafa
    ICR Primary Author:     Pietros Kidane

                                       ii
                    COUNTRY: REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
Project Name: LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                              P101912

                                                     CONTENTS
Data Sheet ......................................................................................................................... iv
  A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iv
  C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iv
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... v
  F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... vi
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... ix
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ ix
  I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................. x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ................................................ 4
3. Assessment of Outcome ............................................................................................ 10
4. Assessment of Risks to Development Outcome ....................................................... 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised By Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component (both before and after restructuring) ........................... 21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 23
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 26
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 27
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............................ 28
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 36
Annex 9. Project’s Major Achievements by Components ................................................ 37
Annex 10. Project Preparation and Implementation Environment. .................................. 44
Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................ 48
Map of Sudan .................................................................................................................... 49




                                                                 iii
Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
                                                                         SD - Livestock and
Country:               Sudan                    Project Name:            Fisheries Development
                                                                         Project - MDTF
Project ID:            P101912                  L/C/TF Number(s):        TF-57638
ICR Date:              11/28/2011               ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         Government of
Lending Instrument:    ERL                      Grantee:
                                                                         Southern Sudan (GoSS)
Original Total
                       USD 7.67M                Disbursed Amount:        USD 13.49M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 13.49M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Animal Resources and Fisheries
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/30/2006   Effectiveness:             04/16/2007        04/16/2007
                                                                                 06/16/2009
Appraisal:             08/02/2006   Restructuring(s):                            05/13/2010
                                                                                 11/18/2010
Approval:              11/07/2006   Mid-term Review:                             06/16/2009
                                    Closing:                   12/31/2008        06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Unsatisfactory
Grantee Performance:                            Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory     Government:         Unsatisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory                         Unsatisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Unsatisfactory                         Unsatisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

                                               iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                   Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                               Quality at Entry
                          Yes                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                                   (QEA):
Problem Project at any                                  Quality of
                               No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                          Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                               Satisfactory1
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                        Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                        60                      10
Animal production                                                                                  60
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                           40                      30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural policies and institutions                                             67                     50
Rural services and infrastructure                                           33                     50

E. Bank Staff
           Positions                           At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:                Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili             Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:              Bella Deborah Mary Bird                Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:                Karen Mcconnell Brooks                 Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Project Team Leader:           Abel Lufafa                            Wahida Huq
ICR Team Leader:               Abel Lufafa
ICR Primary Author:            Pietros Kidane




1
    Final ISR was archived after the closing date and shows a Moderately Satisfactory DO rating.

                                                      v
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve the performance of the Livestock and Fisheries Sectors in five selected States
of Southern Sudan through capacity building, improving animal health, reducing post-
harvest losses and improving marketing infrastructure.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
To build capacity of the public sector in Southern Sudan to fulfill its mandated role in
livestock and fisheries and to promote continuity in provision of key services in the
livestock sector in five selected states of Southern Sudan.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                           Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                             approval         Target        Completion or
                                            documents)        Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Improved capacity of MARF and SDARF staff to discharge their mandate
Value
quantitative or   No                         n/a                 Yes             Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007                 04/16/2007          11/18/2010      06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          This is a new indicator introduced after restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Continuity in animal health service delivery
Value
quantitative or   No                         n/a                 Yes             Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007                 04/16/2007          11/18/2010      06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          This is a new indicator introduced after restructuring
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of beneficiary households receiving animal health services
Value
quantitative or   0                          n/a                 12500           24800
Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007                 04/16/2007          11/18/2010      06/30/2011
Comments
                  This is a new indicator introduced after restructuring. The results represent a
(incl. %
                  198% achievement
achievement)




                                                   vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                  approval                            Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                 documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of state offices built and fully equipped
Value
(quantitative     0                          n/a                5                 5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007                04/16/2007           11/18/2010     06/30/2011
Comments          Three new state offices were built and two existing offices renovated. This is a
(incl. %          new indicator introduced after restructuring. 100% of the targeted offices were
achievement)      built
Indicator 2 :     Number of vehicles procured and distributed to recipient states
Value
(quantitative     0                          n/a                16                28
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007                 04/16/2007         11/18/2010     06/30/2011
Comments          An additional 12 vehicles that were procured through animal health care
(incl. %          contracts to NGOs were transferred to the states. This represents a 175%
achievement)      achievement relative to the target
Indicator 3 :     Number of motorcycles procured and distributed to recipient states
Value
(quantitative     0                          n/a                30                43
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007               04/16/2007           11/18/2010     06/30/2011
Comments          An additional 13 motorcycles that were procured through animal health care
(incl. %          contracts to NGOs were transferred to the states. 143% of the target was
achievement)      achieved
                  Number of MARF and SDARF staff trained and competent in relevant technical
Indicator 4 :
                  and managerial skills
Value
(quantitative     0                          n/a                300               360
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007                 04/16/2007         11/18/2010        06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          120% of the intended target was achieved
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number of relevant bills, policies and legislation formulated
Value
(quantitative     0                          n/a                4                 0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007               04/16/2007          11/18/2010     06/30/2011
Comments          Although resources under the project were not used as envisaged for the legal
(incl. %          and regulatory framework, the GoSS has undertaken work in this area and drafts
achievement)      are under review
Indicator 6 :     Number of community animal health workers and veterinary pharmacists trained

                                                   vii
                  and deployed
Value
(quantitative     0                        n/a                1500          1261
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007               04/16/2007         11/18/2010    06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          84% of the target was achieved
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Number of animals treated for systemic diseases
Value
(quantitative     0                        n/a                400000        329589
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007               04/16/2007         11/18/2010    06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          82% of the target was achieved
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Number of animal vaccinated for diseases
Value
(quantitative     0                        n/a                800000        580226
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007               04/16/2007         11/18/2010    06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          72.5% of the target was achieved
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Number of functional mobile veterinary clinics deployed
Value
(quantitative     0                        n/a                12            12
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007               04/16/2007         11/18/2010    06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          100% of the target was achieved
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Completion of a responsive baseline study
Value
(quantitative     0                        n/a                Yes           Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007               04/16/2007         11/18/2010    06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    Completion of an appropriate value chain study
Value
(quantitative     0                        n/a                Yes           Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/16/2007               04/16/2007         11/18/2010    06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

                                                 viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                             IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1    06/20/2008     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              1.65
  2    12/24/2008     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              2.22
  3    06/28/2009     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              2.86
  4    12/22/2009         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     5.61
  5    06/07/2010         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   10.58
  6    04/04/2011         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory            13.49
  7    07/11/2011     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            13.49


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Extended the closing date to
 06/16/2009       N       MS    MS            2.86
                                                     allow completion of activities
                                                     Extended the closing date to
 05/13/2010       N       S       S           9.14
                                                     allow completion of activities
                                                      Reduced scope of project to
                                                     reflect   realized      funding,
 11/18/2010       Y       S       S          13.46   changed PDO and extended
                                                     closing    date     to     allow
                                                     completion of ongoing activities


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                  Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                                ix
I. Disbursement Profile2




2
 Profile shows more funds than were originally allocated and does not show revised amounts because the
additional financing did not follow routine procedures and was hence not captured in SAP

                                                  x
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The long civil war between the Government of Sudan and the Sudan People’s Liberation
Army (SPLA) ended in January 2005 with the signing of the Comprehensive Peace
Agreement (CPA) by the two parties. This marked a new era for Southern Sudan, and
paved the way for the return to normalcy and the homecoming of millions of internally
displaced people and refugees. Following the signing of the CPA, the Government of
Southern Sudan (GoSS) was established, and took full responsibility for the overall
development of the region.

The challenges to GoSS were formidable, given the enormous problems left by the civil
war. In particular, the humanitarian situation was severe as a result of large-scale
displacement of the population, high incidence of poverty, food insecurity and
malnutrition. Of the estimated population of 8.2 million, about four million were
internally displaced and two million had fled their country and become refugees. The
civil conflict had disrupted the already limited social and administrative infrastructure in
the country; consequently the standard of education and health services had deteriorated
markedly. Agricultural services in the rural areas were inadequate, although this sector,
including livestock and fisheries, is the mainstay of the economy and source of livelihood
to more than 85% of the population. The cumulative effect of the lengthy war was a
general impoverishment of the population at large due to loss of assets, disruption of
traditional production systems, underutilization of land resources, and constrained
economic activities and market development.

During the war, livestock and fisheries provided opportunity for supporting the
livelihoods of the population, although international food aid played an important role in
feeding distressed people in many areas. Even now, after independence, these sectors are
considered as the likely ones that will make rapid impact on the recovery of livelihoods
and in asset formation and wealth creation. This was also the case at the time of signing
of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, and it was therefore logical to initiate programs
that enhanced the development of these sectors by addressing their main constraints:
animal diseases and shortage of veterinary services; low productivity, lack of adequate
marketing infrastructure and weak institutional support to producers and traders.

The framework for recovery and development in Southern Sudan was provided by the
Joint Assessment Mission (JAM), which was carried out as a collaborative effort of the
World Bank, United Nations, Government of Sudan and Sudan People’s Liberation
Movement (SPLM). The development strategy outlined in the JAM report was, inter alia,
to promote rural development through a big push on basic infrastructure, support internal
and external trade linkages and promote agricultural productivity. The report indicated
that transformation of the agricultural sector (including livestock and fisheries) and
promoting private sector development are central to the challenge of peace and
development in Southern Sudan.



                                             1
The need to help the new government to accelerate the recovery of livelihoods that
depended on livestock and fisheries was the main rationale for the involvement of the
Bank within the framework of the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan (MDTF-
SS). At the same time, the project was meant to contribute to the principal objectives of
the MDTF-SS which were to support GoSS in State building, peace building and
fostering donor and GoSS partnership.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Performance
Indicators
As presented in the Final Project Proposal (FPP), the Livestock and Fisheries
Development Project (LFDP) was conceived as a five-year project, but to be
implemented in two phases.3 The objective of the project was to improve the performance
of the Livestock and Fisheries Sectors in five States of Southern Sudan through capacity
building, improving animal health, reducing fish post-harvest losses and improving
market infrastructure. Indicative key performance indicators comprised:
     animal disease surveillance and control system established;
     number of cattle traded in market towns and border points increased by x percent
        by the end of the project; and
     volume of fish that reach main markets increased by x percent by the end of the
        project.

1.3     Revised Project Objectives and Key Performance Indicators (as restructured)
The project was restructured in November 2010, in order to align project objectives to the
reduced range of activities that came about as the result of shortage of project funds. At
the same time, the restructuring exercise eliminated the idea of the two-phase project,
because by then it was clear that funding for the second phase was no longer available
during the time frame of the MDTF. As revised, the PDO became: to build capacity of
the public sector in Southern Sudan to fulfill its mandated role in livestock and fisheries
and to promote continuity in the provision of key services in the livestock sector in the
five States of Southern Sudan. The revised key indicators were: (i) improved capacity of
the staff of the Ministry of Animal Resources and Fisheries (MARF) and the State
Directorates of Animal Resources and Fisheries (SDARF) to discharge their mandate; (ii)
continuity in animal health service delivery; and (iii) number of beneficiary households
receiving animal health services.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries
The project was to be implemented in five States: Upper Nile, Unity, Jonglei, East and
Central Equatoria; and the main beneficiaries were livestock producers and fishers living
in these States. In addition, since the project proposed to improve government


3
  The first phase, to be executed during the first two years, would focus on capacity building and service
delivery, and comprised mainly components 1 and 2. The second phase, to be implemented over the
remaining three years, would concentrate on longer term institutional development, while continuing with
service delivery and marketing activities.



                                                    2
institutional capacity, it supported livestock and fisheries institutions in the five States
and in MARF. Therefore, these institutions are considered as immediate beneficiaries,
although their improved capacity will ultimately be in favor of producers who would
eventually obtain better services.

1.5    Original Components
The original project had four components:

1) Institutional Development and Capacity Building (US$ 11.25 million)
This component aimed at improving the capacity of MARF to formulate policies, design
appropriate legal instruments and set priorities, as well as building technical and
managerial skills at senior levels of MARF and the five SDARFs. Project inputs would
comprise: provision of technical assistance for capacity building and project management
and coordination; staff training; construction of MARF headquarter offices and
rehabilitation of five SDARF offices; provision of office equipment, vehicles and funds
for covering recurrent costs; and conducting studies that would support sectoral policy
and institutional development.

2) Improvement of Service Delivery for Animal Health (US$ 17.00 million)
The main objective of this component was to improve livestock production and
marketability through disease control. Main activities included: financing the services of
NGOs to support local animal health services; the construction of one central laboratory
in Juba and two regional laboratories in Wau and Malakal; expansion of the Marial Lou
Livestock Training Center; provision of regional experts to impart training to trainers in
livestock related topics; financing of contingency drugs and cold chains, cost of mobile
clinics and requisite laboratory, as well as field diagnostic equipment and supplies.

3) Livestock Marketing Support (US$8.40 million)
This component was to essentially focus on developing market facilities and peri-urban
dairy, and comprised: the provision of funds for price-monitoring and dissemination;
staff training; promoting services at the market points; conducting studies on the
feasibility of physical facilities viz., slaughter houses, cattle holding and auction yards
and water supply services, and the construction of these if warranted by the studies;
promotion of peri-urban dairy; and the financing of a suitable organization to implement
the livestock marketing support component.

4) Development of Fish Production and Marketing (US$ 5.35 million)
This component aimed at building an effective service delivery system for the
development of fisheries resources, minimizing post-harvest losses, improving access to
markets; and building capacity of field officials. Main activities included: financing the
expansion of the training facility at Padak; provision of training to trainers and other
staff; training of fishers and demonstration of better fishing techniques; and developing
extension services. Following, technical and financial assessment of the market potential


                                             3
for fish and the interest of the communities, the project would improve fish landing and
other facilities with community participation during the second phase of the project.

1.6      Revised Components
The project components were revised following a restructuring exercise that was carried
out in November 2010 primarily to adjust the project to the reduced availability of funds.
In this process, the PDO and the results framework were modified and brought into line
with the activities for which funding was available, which were practically the first phase
undertakings. In addition, components 3 and 4 were merged into one, under a new
heading: support to livestock and fish marketing. Therefore, as restructured, the project
had three components: i) institutional development and capacity building; ii)
improvement of service delivery for animal health; and iii) support to livestock and fish
marketing. The purpose of the latter was to identify entry points for improving the
marketing of livestock and fish products. The last component also aimed at supporting
livestock value chain studies and piloting a peri-urban poultry development initiative.4

All other support to livestock marketing (including the construction of marketing
infrastructure, development of market information systems, demarcation and provision of
watering points along livestock trading routes) and the development of fish production
and marketing (such as the establishment of fish handling facilities and assessment of
fisheries resources and human resources development for fisheries) was dropped as these
activities had been planned for the second phase for which funding was not available.

1.7      Other Significant Changes
The project was revised to reflect the shortfalls in project funds as the result of the failure
by GoSS to fulfill its commitment to the project. Of the initial project commitment of
US$ 22.00 million, GoSS allocated only US$3.08 million, equivalent to 14% of its initial
commitment. Incremental funding from the MDTF-SS to fully address the shortfall was
not available. This situation barred the possibility of implementing the second phase as
originally planned, and called for project restructuring to bring activities into line with
available funds.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project was prepared under unusual conditions (see Annex 10 for details) in that the
Project Preparation Team, which operated from Nairobi, was not able to visit the project
areas due to security issues. Therefore, there was limited interaction with local
professionals and major stakeholders, although some of the Director Generals of MARF
were involved in project appraisal. In addition, because of decades of war, relevant


4
 The proposal at appraisal was to develop peri-urban dairy, but after consultations with stakeholders during
project implementation, its feasibility was put in doubt. Hence, it was decided to pilot a peri-urban poultry
production scheme instead.



                                                     4
information on the proposed project areas was not readily available, and there was not
much to learn from past experience of the Bank or other development agencies, as recent
operations in Southern Sudan were essentially of humanitarian or emergency nature.
Project design was, thus, based on incomplete information.

Under these circumstances, it should have been realized that project formulation would
suffer from lack of local input and information gaps. Therefore, serious efforts should
have been made to introduce some flexibility in the project design to allow changes
midstream in light of actual circumstances. The FPP did not call explicitly for the
refinement of project proposals during implementation, probably assuming that this will
be done as a normal exercise during the planning and implementation of project activities.
In any case, as completed, the FPP presented an optimistic project with definite actions
that are phased in two implementation periods. One of the reasons for such an assertive
approach was the conviction that project implementation would move smoothly given the
provision of a strong Technical Assistance (TA) input under the project. This assumed
that GoSS would readily adopt the recommended TA, which later turned out not to be the
case. Little consideration was given to the possible difficulties that the project might face
as a result of information gaps and capacity limitations within MARF. The staff of
MARF had no experience with Bank’s procedures and modus operandi, and it would be
the first time that they would be engaged in a major development project.

Another apparent weakness in project preparation was the lack of clear-cut distinction
between the first and second phases of the project, particularly when it was already
known that firm commitment of MDTF-SS funds was made to the first two years of the
project or to the first phase only. The project’s Grant Agreement provided funds for the
first phase only, and specified that the project would close two years after it was declared
effective. Even after realizing that the Grant funds were only for the first phase, the
preparation team maintained the structural link between the two phases, and did not
distinguish PDOs and key indicators for the two phases. Failure to define specific PDOs
and key indicators for the two phases has complicated the task of project evaluation.
Furthermore, the project preparation exercise was not supported by adequate analytical
work. Although there was a general dearth of information, some pragmatic analysis could
have been made based on whatever the prevailing circumstances offered. For instance,
there were no grounds for the peri-urban dairy proposal, because the urban areas would
require time to stabilize and to create capacities for development.

With regard to implementation arrangements, project design provided for the
establishment of a Project Steering Committee (PSC) to be responsible for the overall
execution of the project. Its members would be the Director Generals of MARF, or the
heads of the Technical Directorates (TDs), as well as representatives of the five States
and of some key ministries, including that of Finance and Agriculture. The PSC was to be
chaired by the Under-Secretary of MARF. Project implementation responsibility was
assigned to the relevant TDs of MARF, but coordination of their activities was to be
carried out by the Directorate of Special Projects (DSP) through its Director General
(DG).




                                             5
This makes the head of DSP a key figure, given their role in coordinating the
implementation activities of the TDs. However, since coordination was to be carried out
within a flat organizational structure, in which the Coordinator had little authority over
the TDs, project coordination faced difficulties. The Coordinator had no control over the
TDs’ operations and no means for ensuring that they adhered to the agreed project
activities and work plans. The DGs of the TDs, who were peers of the Coordinator,
considered the cooperation with the latter as an optional matter. Lack of assigning some
authority to the Coordinator remained a problem throughout the project implementation
period.

2.2    Implementation
The project became effective with about six months delay, because GoSS had not met the
condition for effectiveness, i.e., depositing funds equivalent to four months of
expenditure in the project accounts. This condition was later waived by the Bank, in order
to expedite effectiveness, but still project implementation continued to delay. There were
many reasons for the delay, which primarily revolved around the weak institutional
capacity and lack of acquaintance of key staff with the project concept and with Bank’s
operations. Therefore, a large part of the first year was spent on putting in place
institutional arrangements and planning for the procurement of goods and services.

The first major obstacle in implementation emerged with the freezing of recruitment of
TA personnel (consisting of seven different skill sets) by GoSS, as their costs were
considered to be too high. The TA personnel were identified by technical people from
MARF, and they were cleared by the Bank. With this freeze, the high expectations in
accelerating project implementation proved unrealizable, because TA support for project
implementation was regarded as a crucial input. The freeze stalled important activities
needed for moving the project forward viz., procurement of equipment and veterinary
medicine, preparation of the baseline survey, establishment of Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) system and the preparation of the different studies. Therefore, only a small
fraction of the project had been executed during the first year, with a disbursement level
of US$ 1.2 million or about 3% of the total project funds. Paradoxically, this situation
triggered discussions about extending the project, which had hardly started. A change of
stance by GoSS in accepting the TA personnel, after several months of delay, gave some
impetus to the project, and implementation started to move again. However, its pace was
not commensurate with the optimistic plan envisaged at appraisal, and had to be extended
three times, for a total of two and half years.

Major factors that affected project implementation included:
    lack of involvement of relevant staff in the conceptualization and preparation of
       the project;
    lack of clear understanding of investment projects by many staff members, who
       were acquainted more with emergency/humanitarian operations;
    resistance to the project’s TA inputs on grounds of excessive costs;
    weak support from the Procurement Agent of GoSS in the initial years;
    unfamiliarity with World Bank operations, which led to the perception that
       matters were being imposed upon the implementing staff and agencies; and


                                            6
         low level of staff enthusiasm in project implementation.

2.3       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E Design: As mentioned above, the project did not define PDOs and key indicators
separately for the two phases, and this failure to develop separate indicators has rendered
the monitoring of project implementation and performance difficult. Broad key
performance indicators were developed by the Bank staff within six months after project
effectiveness, but the preparation of the final framework for results monitoring had to
await the completion of a baseline survey. The Directorate of Planning, Investment and
Marketing of MARF was given the responsibility for developing the M&E system for the
project. This consisted of the preparation of the results framework and the subsequent
monitoring and reporting of project results and performance, based on this framework.

While designing the baseline survey, MARF decided to broaden its scope to cover the
entire agricultural sector of Southern Sudan and to develop and implement an M&E
system for the whole Ministry. The Project’s M&E requirements were thus expected to
be met by selecting the necessary project indicators and baselines from the Ministry’s
M&E system.

M&E Implementation: The baseline survey was carried out with delay, and was
completed only seven months before the project closing date, which was too late to be
useful for the project’s M&E purposes. In any case, with the assistance of a consultant,
the M&E system was established within MARF, and staff from this Ministry and SDARF
were trained in M&E principles and practices. However, in spite of the provision of
training in M&E, the field staff were not facilitated with computers and related
accessories to carry out their work.

M&E Utilization: At project completion, the M&E system established under the project
was not utilized due to its delayed establishment and to the fact that staff in the States
lacked the tools that facilitate data collection and transfer. Therefore, project monitoring
continued on an ad hoc basis, using information supplied by the different contractors and
implementing agencies, with little input from the project’s M&E unit in terms of
selection and vetting.

2.4       Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Safeguards: At appraisal, four possible areas that could generate some
environmental impacts were identified: clean water supply, waste disposal in the
slaughter houses; disposal of veterinary consumables; rehabilitation and construction of
public buildings; and livestock production infrastructure. At the same time, the project’s
impact was judged to be minimal, and was thus allocated an impact category B.
Nevertheless, the project was expected to adopt the safeguard instruments: Environment
and Social Management Framework (ESMF), Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF),
Medical and Veterinary Waste Management Plan (MVWMP) that were being prepared
for use by all MDTF-financed operations in Southern Sudan. These MDTF-wide
instruments had not been completed by the end of the project, and the project continued


                                              7
relying on the Bank task team’s advice on environmental safeguards which was, in most
cases, neglected.

Towards the end of project implementation, the Bank advised project management to
conduct an environmental audit to ascertain the project’s adherence to environmental
safeguards. Accordingly, an environmental specialist was recruited to carry out the audit,
thereby remedying past omissions. The findings of this assessment indicated some
inadequacies in disposing of medical waste and expired drugs, as these were being burnt
and buried, instead of being properly incinerated. Likewise, concerns were expressed
with regard to the poor protection of staff who handle veterinary drugs and vaccines.
Inadequate compensation was also reported with regard to the relocation of seven
families from Government land. The environmental audit report includes suggestions for
correcting these deficiencies, and MARF is in the process of purchasing incinerators to
deal with the drug disposal issue.

Financial Management: The project was characterized by weak financial management
during the initial years due to capacity limitations within the implementing agency.
Therefore, adherence to financial management procedures became a challenge from the
beginning. The budget preparation process commenced with submission of work plans
and budgets by each of the seven TDs, which were later consolidated, reviewed and
approved as the final project budget. The TDs received allocation based on the approved
budget for the specified activities, and often difficulties emerged due to the desire of the
TDs to use funds outside of the agreed terms and conditions. Budget preparation and
monitoring was also weakened by limited involvement of Senior Management in budget
reviews to assess activity implementation and budget performance. In 2007/08, delayed
accountability by MARF for operational funds advanced by the Ministry of Finance
resulted in blockage of fund advances to the MARF operational account. These
difficulties were reduced significantly after the recruitment of the Financial Management
Specialist (FMS) in May 2009, and advances to MARF’s operational account were
reinstated in June 2009. Since the arrival of the FMS, real financial management
problems disappeared, although cases in which the TDs proposed use of funds for
activities not approved in the budget remained.

Financial reports and financial management statements were submitted as envisaged and
external audits were prepared regularly. In this regard, the project has benefited from the
support of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, by availing of the financial
services provided to MDTF financed projects. Disbursement, which was slow during the
first half of the project, accelerated in the last two years, and the grant was all disbursed
by the closing date. Following a shortage of GoSS funding to the project, US$ 13.49
million or over 81% of the project costs were financed by the Grant. GoSS funding to the
project accounted for only US$ 3.08 million.

Procurement: The project implementation period was characterized by problems and
discussions related to procurement, and the relationship between the Bank and the
implementing agency was defined by procurement issues. From the outset, the JAM had
identified procurement as one of the major constraints that would face GoSS during the



                                             8
implementation of the MDTF-SS. Therefore, it recommended that the Government put in
place a centralized procurement unit within the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MoFEP) where key activities would be undertaken with the support of a
consulting firm as Procurement Agent (PA) and an individual consultant as Procurement
Advisor. This arrangement did not work as expected for several reasons: a) the PA acted
more as a supervisor instead of providing hands-on support in procuring goods and
services, hence the preparation of documents remained poor, often not meeting Bank’s
requirements; b) the procurement plans and the bidding documents adopted did not
always take into account the local environment; and c) the execution of awarded
contracts proved to be challenging as suppliers and contractors experienced difficulties
due to the sanctions imposed on Sudan, resulting in delays. The PA’s practice in clearing
procurement documents that did not meet Bank’s requirements contributed to the
misunderstanding between the Bank and the project staff, because the latter believed that
good proposals recommended by the PA were arbitrarily rejected by the Bank.

The above procurement arrangements were changed in mid 2009, when a Procurement
Specialist was hired. It took some time until the inputs of the Procurement Specialist
were felt, as most of the procurement activities were based on interactions with the end
users or the TDs. In particular, the project procured goods and works and selected
consulting services using direct contracting and single source selections. These methods
are normally simple and straightforward, but could prove to be difficult if adequate
justifications are not readily available, which was often the case with the project. The
experience acquired hitherto and the support provided by the Procurement Specialist
helped to build momentum, leading eventually to a faster disbursement rate in the last
years (see disbursement graph).

Legal Covenants: There were two legal covenants under the project, viz., preparation and
implementation of a Project Implementation Manual within six months of project
effectiveness; and the establishment of Project Steering Committee. Both were complied
with as planned.

2.5       Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Post-completion operation should be looked at outside the funding of the MDTF-SS, as
this will be closed soon. It is still too early to predict the availability of resources that
would sustain and advance the project and its objectives. GoSS has just prepared its three
year development plan,5 but detailed resource allocation to the sectors and subsectors is
not yet finalized. Likewise, donors are in the process of firming up their plans based on
their respective aid programs and policies. Nevertheless, given the importance of
agriculture-based sectors (including livestock and fisheries) in the national economy and
in the livelihood of the bulk of the population, it is to be expected that these sectors will
be given high priority. In this case, substantial investment would be directed towards
these sectors, and will release resources necessary to follow up and consolidate the



5
    GoSS, South Sudan Development Plan, 2011-2013, August 2011.



                                                  9
achievements of LFDP. GoSS’ commitment to livestock and fisheries is still very high,
and is expected to remain so in the foreseeable future.

3.     Assessment of Outcome

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Both the original and the revised project objectives are relevant now, as they were during
project preparation. Building the capacity of the public institutions and improving the
performance of the livestock and fisheries sectors are still important government
objectives. MARF is a newly established institution, and has limited capacity in
discharging its responsibilities, in regulating the sector and in providing services to
producers and the public at large. A large segment of the population depends on livestock
and fisheries for economic recovery, and this can be accelerated through strong technical
support from the relevant GoSS institutions in the centre and in the rural areas. This has
become even more urgent after independence, given that donor financing for the
provision of services by NGOs, such as in animal health, has been transferred to the
Government, resulting in increased workload to the young institutions. Therefore,
strengthening MARF central and field operations in preparing and monitoring
development programs, improving disease surveillance systems and upgrading the
delivery of support services, is considered key to rural development.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project did not meet all the objectives set at appraisal, because the bulk of the
development program related to the improvement of livestock and fish production and
marketing was not implemented. However, the project has largely met the PDO as
restructured, although the restructured project was a modest one as it could count only on
about 40% of the funds originally estimated at appraisal.

The project has contributed significantly to institutional capacity building within MARF
and the five States, as well as to the improvement in animal disease surveillance systems
and the provision of veterinary services to the rural households. These outcomes were an
integral part of original project objectives. The capacity of MARF and SDARF has been
enhanced significantly under the project through a number of interventions. First, the
working conditions of staff were greatly improved by the office construction and
renovation program. Three States were provided with new office blocks, and two States
had their old offices renovated. All offices were provided with the necessary facilities
(together with generators), as well as office furniture and equipment, including computers.
Secondly, staff mobility at MARF and the States has been improved through the supply
of four-wheel drive vehicles and motorcycles. Thirdly, financing was provided under the
project to cover the costs of internet and telecommunication services and for operating
generators and vehicles. These project inputs are reported to have boosted staff morale
and efficiency, especially at the State level. The project also supported the rehabilitation
of a regional veterinary laboratory at Wau, rehabilitation of dormitories and classes at
Marial Lou Livestock Training Center.




                                            10
Training provided under the project has upgraded staff skills, ultimately improving the
capacity of the related institutions in their day-to-day work. In total, some 320 individuals
have been trained in different fields under the project (excluding the training given by
NGOs in animal health in the States). About 75% of the training was given at the State
level: 113 in extension services and 129 in M&E practices. Seventy six staff members
were given the opportunity to visit other countries in the region, under study tours or
other training arrangements (see Annex 9). The project has also improved the data and
knowledge-base in MARF by undertaking a baseline survey on livestock and fisheries;
and two other studies one on livestock value chain and another on fisheries development.
These studies are expected to improve MARF’s tasks in planning, as well as in
monitoring and evaluation of development programs.

The project was instrumental in bringing back the States to take charge of the animal
health services. It ensured the continuity of these services and the restoration of the
community-based animal healthcare delivery system that was practiced by NGOs before
the CPA. This project intervention was particularly useful, as it averted the risk of system
breakdown and the consequent disease outbreak that could have resulted after the
withdrawal of the NGOs from providing animal healthcare. By engaging five specialized
NGOs, the project was able to underpin a community-based animal health system in
which Community Animal Health Workers (CAHWs) handle livestock disease outbreaks
at the village and cattle camp levels. Among themselves, the five NGOs trained, equipped
and deployed about 1,300 CAHWs to help with early detection, reporting and treatment
and vaccination of animals against major diseases. Some 20 veterinary pharmacy/drug
stores were put in place in the counties, and are providing useful service to the CAHWs
and livestock producers. These stores, which are operated as business ventures by
CAHWs or other animal healthcare workers, have become a useful link between active
CAHWs and veterinary drug suppliers in the States. It is believed that these pharmacies
have a potential to become positive link between drug suppliers and practitioners, thereby
creating a sustainable model for continued private animal health service in the rural areas.

Twelve mobile veterinary clinics (with diagnostic and treatment capabilities) were
procured and distributed to the States to provide another layer of disease detection and
treatment capability. The disease detection and information transmission system from the
counties to the States and finally to MARF, has also been restored. Furthermore, the
project has vaccinated and treated close to one million animals.

In addition to the study in fisheries, the project has financed the construction of two shops
and procured fishing gear to stock these shops. These shops will service two cooperatives
with about 500 members. The project also piloted a peri-urban poultry production
program geared at unemployed youth and widows around suburban Juba. Support
included provision of chicks and feed, and in some cases, construction of poultry houses.
A government feed mill was also rehabilitated under this program.

3.3.   Efficiency
The Final Project Proposal (FPP) is silent on matters related to the efficiency of the
project. No qualitative or quantitative assessment of anticipated project benefits was


                                             11
made to explain the project’s impact. Availability of such analysis would have been a
useful reference point during the preparation of the ICR.

The most acclaimed project impacts were the improvement of institutional capacity
within MARF and the States as well as the reinstatement of the public animal health
service delivery system. Both these benefits are inherently difficult to quantify, and there
are no yardsticks for measuring the efficiency of the staff or that of the institution. But it
is generally accepted by all staff that the improvement in their working conditions and the
provision of equipment and other facilities have significantly raised the efficiency in
MARF and the States. The outputs of these institutions have improved quantitatively and
qualitatively. Some staff indicated that, with the project, productivity in the Ministry has
increased several folds.

With regard to animal health, the project’s main contribution has been the restoration of a
functional animal disease surveillance and control mechanism and healthcare system.
The capacity acquired in the early detection of diseases and in undertaking vaccination
campaigns when needed is most important in the protection of livestock. Likewise, higher
coverage in treating diseased livestock is directly related to increased livestock
production and productivity. The project’s benefits in animal health should be seen from
this perspective, and its impact on the well-being of producers cannot be emphasized
enough. The total cost of the animal health component was about US$ 5.05 million,
which amounts to about US$0.66 per animal unit.6 This should be regarded a very cost
effective undertaking given the important results achieved in animal health services.

The project also vaccinated and treated about 580,266 and 389,614 animals, respectively,
and this has benefitted livestock owners by reducing morbidity and mortality. There are
no detailed analyses on project’s impact from these interventions, but practitioners
estimate that the vaccination made by the project would have reduced mortality by about
5%.7 Reduction of morbidity through animal treatment is believed to have had a positive
bearing on milk and meat productivity and in the reduction of abortions. However, these
are difficult to assess due to lack of readily available information. The impact of animal
treatment on mortality has also been significant, although this depends on the type and
severity of the diseases. Mortality rates of severe cases of Contagious Bovine
Pleuropneumonia (CBPP), Contagious Caprine Pleuropneumonia (CCPP) and East Coast
Fever, for example could reach up to 50% without intervention, but in less severe


6
  According to the baseline survey, the total number of the three most important livestock in the five States,
i.e. Cattle, sheep and goats was: cattle 5.39 million; goats 5.69 million; and sheep 5.82 million. Assuming
one head of cattle as one animal unit, and sheep and goat as 0.2 unit, the total animal unit equivalent is
about 7.69 million.
7
  Most of the vaccinated animals were cattle, and the bulk of them were immunized against CBPP and HC.
It is assumed that mortality without vaccination is about 10%, and this would be reduced to 5% with the
first vaccination.




                                                     12
situations this varies from 10% to 20%. Hence it is reasonable to infer that the project’s
treatment activities would have reduced mortality by at least 10%. Based on these
assumptions, project benefits from vaccination and treatment alone would be about
US$16.22 million, as shown below.
          Estimate of Project Benefits from Livestock Vaccination and Treatment

                                             Mortality          Gross
                                           reduction due        project         Cost of         Net
                     No. of animals          to project        induced     vaccination and    project
      Item         vaccinated/treated       intervention       benefits8      treatment9      benefits
                                                                                      Total
                                                   No of                     US       costs
                                                  animals         US        $ per     (US        (US
Cattle                                     %       saved         $ '000    Animal $ '000)      $ '000)
Vaccination              580,266            5     29,013.0     10,154.7     0.30      30.5    10,185.2
Treatment                194,807           10     19,480.0      6,818.0     10.0    1,948.1    4,869.9
Subtotal                 775,073                  48,493.0     16,973.0             1,979.0   15,055.0
Sheep/Goat
Treatment                194,807           10     19,481.0      1266.3      5.0       97.4     1,168.0
Total                    969,880                  67,974.0     18,239.0             2,076.0   16,223.0

3.4        Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
The overall rating is moderately unsatisfactory. The project has not achieved fully its
original PDO as measured by the key performance indicators,10 whose focus was on the
whole project, rather than specific for the two phases. The restructuring exercise
endeavored to correct this deficiency by separating the two phases, and accordingly
establishing new outcome indicators. However, although this was the right approach, the
restructuring exercise was a belated intervention as the project closing date was only
about seven months away, and the bulk (81%) of the funds were already disbursed. This
state of affairs would point towards an unsatisfactory rating. However, such a rating
would be excessive for two main reasons: First of all, the outcome indicators developed
during project start up, and those developed later during implementation, were not in tune
with what was being planned and implemented by the project.




8
    Valued at US$ 350 per head of cattle and US$65 for sheep/goat.
9
 The cost of vaccine ex-Juba is US$0.15 per dose (CBPP and HC), and this has been doubled to reflect
other costs of vaccination. The treatment costs have been assumed to be US$10.0 per head of cattle and
US$5.0 per sheep or goat.
10
  As indicated in the first ISR, the key performance indicator was: “percent rate of improvement in the
terms of trade available to producers in market places?. Intermediate outcome indicators were: percent
increase in adoption of new/improved animal health and fisheries management practices; increase in pro-
active investments (financial & labor contribution) undertaken by targeted communities and state
authorities in disease control/fisheries& market development; and percent change in effectiveness and
efficiency of the animal health services, advisory services delivery system.



                                                     13
Inter alia, the project was set to address, as a matter of priority, the institutional capacity
weaknesses and problems related to animal disease diagnostic and healthcare systems.
Hence, these goals should have been explicitly stated as project objectives, and related
outcome indicators developed. Secondly, the project has recorded significant
achievements in capacity building within MARF and the five States. This included the
reviving of the derelict administrative and management structures of animal health
services, particularly in the States. These accomplishments can be definitely considered
as part of the broad project objectives, and in retrospect, this was what the project was all
about, particularly after the reduction of funds. Therefore, taking these achievements into
account, the rating of moderately unsatisfactory is the minimum that can be ascribed to
the project.

3.5     Overarching Themes, other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impact, Gender Aspects and Social Development
One of the underlying aims of the project was to assist the rural people in accelerating the
recovery of their livelihoods. Unfortunately, the project did not collect information
related to poverty reduction, and the benchmark survey was carried out towards the end
of the project. However, a general, but straightforward assertion which can be made is
that, without the intervention of the project, the animal health system in the five States
would have collapsed following the withdrawal of the NGOs. This situation would have
exposed the livestock population to different diseases and increased mortality for lack of
disease surveillance, and diagnostic services, as well as vaccination and treatment, when
required. In this way, the project has contributed to the well-being of livestock producers.

The project did not have a specific gender focus. Therefore, its efforts were generally
directed at the overall betterment of livestock producers and fishers in the rural areas.
The only gender oriented intervention was the attempt of involving women in peri-urban
poultry production as a pilot activity; but the result of this small intervention was largely
inconclusive.

(b) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impact (positive or Negative)

As a result of some misunderstandings, an uneasy relationship developed between MARF
officials and Bank staff. Most of the senior staff of the Ministry had formed the opinion
that the Bank staff were dogmatic and unhelpful in their dealings with them. To support
this perception, they underline the fact that responses from the Bank to their proposals for
procurement of goods and services were often negative, and arrived with significant
delays. The Bank staff, on the other hand, explain that the disagreement often occurred
only due to non compliance of the project staff with Bank’s procurement requirements.
The Bank staff reiterate that compliance with these requirements had improved with the
recruitment of a procurement specialist, but was not completely resolved.

4.     Assessment of Risks to Development Outcome
The risk to development outcome is substantial. This is an average rating between low
risk for the capacity building activities, and high for the animal health service system.


                                              14
The higher risk attributed to the outcome in animal health is based on the apprehension
that MARF may fail, in the short-run, to provide sufficient funds to purchase drugs and
vaccines, and to operate and maintain the equipment provided under the project.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: unsatisfactory. The preparation of the project lacked critical analysis of the
situation of Southern Sudan and of its nascent institutions. Quality at entry was
unsatisfactory on several accounts, including the lack of any analytical work to assess the
efficiency of the project. The project did not prepare a suitable results framework by
separating PDOs and result indicators for the two phases. Yet, it was abundantly clear
during preparation that availability of funds for the second phase was at best shaky,
which was probably the reason why the two phases approach had been adopted in the
first place. This being the case, separate PDOs and results indicators should have been
prepared for the two phases, with a view to enabling independent review of each phase.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: unsatisfactory. The project was supervised by a country-based Task Team. This
was meant to facilitate project implementation by providing continuous support to the
project staff that had no prior experience in working with the Bank. However, as
discussed above, project implementation was very slow, and had lagged behind, requiring
three extensions. While failure for not advancing project implementation is primarily that
of the implementing agency, there are a number of areas where Bank staff could have
made a difference.

First of all, the project staff did not have a good understanding of the Banks modus
operandi, although the Task Team had organized some training programs during the
initial project implementation period. The continued lack of clear understanding by the
project staff on how the Bank operates signaled the need for more training/refresher
programs, particularly with regard to procurement, which was often the cause for
contention. Second, the project was becoming a problem project before it even started.
Hence, this should have been acknowledged and the project restructured early on, instead
of extending it twice as appraised. Third, the Task Team did not finalize an adequate
results framework to enable adequate monitoring of the project with clear distinction
between the two phases. Fourth, there were few comprehensive review missions that
provided a complete picture of project implementation. The fact that individual members
of the Bank’s Task Team were meeting frequently with the project staff should not have
been considered as a substitute for a thorough review by a multi-disciplinary team. Fifth,
Bank supervision missions overlooked the issues related to environmental safeguards,
although a number of Bank Operational Policies had been triggered at project appraisal.
None of the review missions had an environmental specialist. In general, the supervision
missions have not maintained an appropriate skills mix that can pinpoint specific issues
to project activities, be it on civil works or animal health.


                                            15
5.2    Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: unsatisfactory. This rating is based on four major points: a) the failure of GoSS to
allocate the funds it committed to the project; b) the non-compliance with conditions of
project effectiveness, hence the six months delay that this omission has entailed; c) the
failure to recruit an environmental specialist to prepare safeguard instruments and ensure
that project activities follow these guidelines; and d) allowing/tolerating that project
procured vehicles in the States be taken away by senior officials of the State governments
to be used in other departments. Diversion of vehicles to other departments has reduced
the mobility of the technical staff in providing improved animal health services.

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance
Rating: unsatisfactory. The performance of the implementing agency was not satisfactory
mostly because its senior staff were not focusing on implementing the project as designed.
Considerable efforts were wasted by the TDs in trying to change project activities and
agreed budgets, and in resisting Bank’s modus operandi. This stance has not enabled
them to take full advantage of the support that the Bank staff were ready to offer. The
first major departure from the expected line of project implementation was the freezing of
recruitment of the agreed TA personnel. This resulted in a major delay of project
implementation as project activities virtually stalled. Among other things, the slow pace
in project implementation had delayed the anticipated project support in the construction
of MARF headquarters, and this induced MARF to go ahead with civil works without
obtaining the Bank’s concurrence. Later application for reimbursement for the cost of the
construction was not accepted by the Bank as the implementing agency did not follow the
Bank’s procurement procedures. This incident contributed further to the uneasy
relationship mentioned above.

The baseline survey, results of which were to be the main input for designing the
project’s M&E system, was carried out during the last year of project implementation,
which was too late for monitoring its activities. Thus, the project lacked an effective
system of monitoring its activities, and reporting on the project was more of improvised
nature, with little standardization. Some senior staff of MARF have shown reluctance to
facilitate optimal use of TA in improving staff skills in critical areas such as procurement,
M&E systems and financial management.




                                             16
6.       Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned are:

        Project preparation, carried out under difficult circumstances, such as was the
         case with LFDP, should highlight the eventual information gaps, and endeavor to
         collect these during implementation. While there was sufficient ground to make
         specific proposals regarding capacity building and the animal health components,
         this was not the case with the bulk of the other activities especially those on
         livestock and fishery production and marketing. For instance, there was no basis
         for establishing peri-urban dairy as there was lack of critical knowledge on
         producers, dairy animals and urban organizations. Likewise, establishing five
         sanitary slaughter houses in selected towns was a bit far-fetched, because the
         towns were in the process of being stabilized and their administrations being
         formed. In this case, project design should have allowed for ample flexibility by
         indicating broad ideas and leaving the details to be firmed up during
         implementation.

        Supervision missions should try to have a balanced skill mix that reflects the
         makeup of the project’s subject matter and other specific requirements,
         particularly when project preparation was constrained by lack of information.
         This would give opportunity for improving some proposals that were rushed
         during preparation. Perhaps the project needs in preparing environmental
         safeguard instruments would have been accomplished had the supervision
         missions included an environmental specialist. Likewise, a thorough technical
         review of the high-tech mobile clinic proposals by an experienced veterinarian
         would have led towards a choice of more appropriate technology.

        The Bank granted a waiver to a condition of project effectiveness (the need for
         GoSS to deposit funds in the project account), after waiting for six months and
         having realized that the fulfillment of this requirement was not still in sight. This
         was a sensible decision as it allowed project start up. Two important lessons
         emerge from this: a) in the case of countries emerging from conflict and those
         with nascent institutions, conditions for implementing projects should be kept to
         bare minimum as they will have difficulties in fulfilling them in good time,
         thereby exposing the project to failure; and b) in cases of difficulties in meeting
         some conditions by such countries, considerations should be given by the Bank to
         reviewing these conditions, and eventually grant waivers, provided that these do
         not jeopardize the project’s outcome. The waiver of the condition of LFDP’s
         effectiveness by the Bank was the most important single action that helped the
         project to move forward.




                                              17
         In an organizational setup with an apparent need for clear line of command,11
          project organization should provide for well-defined staff responsibilities and
          authority. Considerations should be given in South Sudan to the possibility of
          relying on stronger project coordination office, albeit within the existing
          ministerial structure, where the Coordinator becomes primus inter pares, and has
          a say on matters related to the plan of work and budget of a project as well as in
          the release of funds.

         Training and equipping CAHWs is an important step towards private veterinary
          service in the rural areas. However, for the CAHWs to be successful and
          sustainable, they have to have easy access to drugs and vaccines, thus enabling
          them to deliver veterinary services to their communities. The veterinary
          pharmacies established by the NGOs under the project appear to be well suited for
          this purpose. This is because the suppliers of veterinary drugs are starting to have
          a continuous business relationship with them, since they are perceived as
          promising outlets for veterinary drugs in the rural areas. On the other hand, the
          practitioners are happy to find drugs right in their counties, as this will facilitate
          their operations. In this way, the pharmacies have become a useful link between
          the drug suppliers and veterinary practitioners in the rural areas. This opportunity
          created by the pharmacies could develop into a sustainable model for expanding
          private veterinary services, and should be supported in the future.

         The formulation of results framework in projects that are designed to be
          implemented in phases should endeavor to include specific objectives for each of
          the phases instead of establishing global PDOs for the whole project. This will
          avoid the risk of underestimating project outcome if one or more of the
          anticipated phases are not implemented. Failure in setting up key performance
          indicators for the first phase of LFDP has prevented the project from getting
          credit for the achievements it made in institutional capacity building and
          improved animal health services.

         Projects in post-conflict environments should be designed with simplicity and the
          greatest analytical rigor allowed by the availability of information. Gaps in
          information should be shown transparently, and measures built into design to
          adjust activities as more information becomes available.

7.        Comments on Issues Raised By Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)       Borrower/implementing agency

None



11
  Many of the GoSS officials came from a military background, where the hierarchy and the line of
command were well defined.



                                               18
(b)    Co-financiers

None

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders

None




                                         19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                   Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                                                      Percentage       of
Components                         Estimate     (USD Estimate    (USD
                                                                      Appraisal
                                   millions)         millions)
Institutional Development and
                                          11.25              7.04    63.00
Capacity Building
Improvement       of     Service
                                          17.00              8.32    49.00
Delivery for Animal Health
 Livestock Production and
                                           8.40
Marketing*                                                   1.21    9.00
Fisheries     Production    and
                                           5.35
Marketing*


Total Baseline Cost                       42.00             16.57    39.00
Physical Contingencies
                                           0.00              0.00    0.00
Price Contingencies
                                           0.00              0.00    0.00
Total Project Costs                       42.00             16.57    39.00
Project Preparation Costs                  0.096             0.00    0.00
                                           0.00              0.00    0.00
Total Financing Required                  42.096            16.67    40.00


*These two components were merged in the restructured project
(b) Financing
                               Type        of Appraisal Actual/Late          Percentage
                               Cofinancing Estimate        st Estimate       of Appraisal
Source of Funds
                                              (USD         (USD
                                              millions)    millions)
 GoSS                                         22.00        3.08              14
 Multi-donor Trust Fund for
                                              20.00        13.49             67
Southern Sudan




                                               20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component (both before and after restructuring)

Outcome Indicators                    Unit             of Baseline         Target             Actual Result Remarks
                                      Measure              (2007)          (2011)             (2011)
PDO: To build capacity of the public sector in Southern Sudan to fulfill its mandated role in livestock and fisheries, and to promote
continuity in provision of key services in the livestock sector in five selected states of Southern Sudan
Improved capacity of MARF and Yes/No (binary) No                           Yes                Yes
SDARF staff to perform their
roles
Continuity in animal health Yes/No (binary) No                             Yes                Yes
service delivery
Number of beneficiary households Number                    0               12500              24800
Intermediate Result 1: Working conditions at MARF and SDARF are improved
Number of state offices built and Number                   0               5                  5             Three new state offices were
fully equipped                                                                                              built and two existing offices
                                                                                                            renovated.
Number of vehicles procured and Number                     0               16                 28            An additional 12 vehicles that
distributed to recipient states                                                                             were procured through animal
                                                                                                            health care contracts to NGOs
                                                                                                            were transferred to the states.
Number of motorcycles procured Number                      0               30                 43            An additional 13 motorcycles
and distributed to recipient states                                                                         that were procured through
                                                                                                            animal health care contracts to
                                                                                                            NGOs were transferred to the
                                                                                                            states.
Intermediate Result 2: Institutional training and capacity building programs are developed and implemented
Number of MARF and SDARF Number                            0               Not available      360
staff trained and competent in
relevant        technical        and
managerial skills




                                                                    21
Outcome Indicators                 Unit                      of Baseline           Target                Actual Result Remarks
                                   Measure                      (2007)             (2011)                (2011)
Number of relevant bills, policies Number                       Not                Not available         0             Although resources under the
and legislation formulated                                      available                                              project were not used as
                                                                                                                       envisaged for the legal and
                                                                                                                       regulatory framework, the
                                                                                                                       GoSS has undertaken work in
                                                                                                                       this area and drafts are under
                                                                                                                       review.
Intermediate Result 3: Community-based animal health service delivery restituted
Number of Community Animal Number                      Not            Not available      1261
Health Workers and Veterinary                          available
Pharmacists       trained     and
deployed
Number of animals treated for Number                   Not            Not available      329589
systemic diseases                                      available
Number of animal vaccinated for Number                 Not            Not available      580226
diseases                                               available
Number of functional mobile Number                     0              12                 12
veterinary clinics deployed
Intermediate Result 412: Entry points for improving livestock and fisheries sector performance are identified
Completion of a responsive Yes/No (binary) No                         Yes                Yes
baseline study
Completion of an appropriate Yes/No (binary) No                       Yes                Yes
value chain study




12
  Additional outputs that are not captured in the monitoring framework include: poultry project, fishing gear outlets, renovation of laboratories, renovation of
dormitories for livestock training institute.




                                                                                22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

No financial or economic analysis was carried out during project preparation and
appraisal, because of lack of basic information. Similarly, lack of relevant information
continued to prevail at project completion, precluding any meaningful analysis. The
Government’s ICR also does not include an assessment of economic and financial
benefits of the project. Attempts at comparing project costs with those of other projects
elsewhere were not successful after failing to find comparable projects in conditions that
are similar or at least close to those in South Sudan. At any rate, the exclusion of the
livestock and fishery production and marketing components from the project has limited
the scope for undertaking sound financial and economic analysis.

Nevertheless, the project has contributed significantly to institutional capacity building
within MARF and the five States by improving working conditions through the
construction and rehabilitation of office buildings and other facilities; provision of staff
training; supply of equipment and vehicles; as well as provision of operational funds. All
these interventions have boosted staff morale, improved their skills and productivity,
resulting in higher efficiency in the technical department’s day-today operations and
panning activities.

Important achievements were also made in the animal healthcare system, as the project
strengthened the five States enabling them to take charge of the animal health services in
their respective jurisdictions. During the civil war, animal health services in the States
were in the hands of NGOs, who were pulling out from the rural areas after the signing of
the CPA. The project ensured the continuity of health services, hence averted the risk of
system breakdown, hence the consequent disease outbreak that could have resulted after
the withdrawal of the NGOs. Without the project’s intervention, a dangerous void in
animal health services would have resulted, with incalculable damage to the livestock
producers at large. The project has also vaccinated and treated about one million animals,
thereby improving livestock production due to decrease in animal mortality and
morbidity (see section 3.3 of the main text).




                                            23
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
Names                      Title                            Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Wahida Huq           Sr. Operations Officer                         TTL
Thomas Yves
                     Consultant                             AFTS2   Co-TTL
Couteaudier
                                                                  Animal
James Wilson Smith       Sr. Livestock Specialist           ARD
                                                                  production
Mbuba Mbungu             Procurement Specialist             AFTPC Procurement
John Boyle               Sr. Environmental Specialist       AFTS1 Environmental
                                                                  Safeguards
Arbi Ben-Achour          Sr. Social Scientist               AFTS1 Safeguards
John Nyaga               Sr. Financial Management           AFTQK Financial Mgt
                         Specialist
Jean Delion              Sr. Social Development Specialist AFT      Social Scientist

Supervision/ICR
Evarist F. Baimu         Sr. Counsel                        LEGAF   Legal
Christine E. Cornelius   Consultant                         AFTAR   Operations
Stephane Forman          Livestock Specialist               AFTAR   Epidemiology
Wahida Huq               Sr. Operations Officer             CFPPM   TTL #1
John Oloya               Sr. Rural Development Specialist   AFTAR   TTL#2
Mylinda Night Justin     E T Consultant                     AFTAR   Consultant
Abel Lufafa              Agricultural Officer               AFTAR   TTL#3
Prosper Nindorera        Sr. Procurement Specialist         AFTPC   Procurement
Suzan Poni Piwang        Team Assistant                     AFMJB
Dorothy M. Akikoli       Team Assistant                     AFMJB
                                                                    Animal
James Wilson Smith       Sr. Livestock Specialist           ARD
                                                                    production
Pascal Tegwa           Sr. Procurement Specialist           AFTPC   Procurement
                       Sr. Financial Management
Frederick Yankey                                            AFTFM Financial Mgt
                       Specialist
Charles Ragovura Yoere Rural Development Specialist         AFTAR Operations
                       Sr. Financial Management
Adenike Oyeyiola                                            AFTFM Financial Mgt
                       Specialist
Anjani Kumar           Sr. Procurement Specialist           AFTPC   Procurement




                                           24
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost
Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands (including
                          No. of staff weeks
                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY07                      11.6                       96404.00
Total:                    11.6                       96404.00
Supervision/ICR
FY07                                                 92,610.23
FY08                                                 234,247.50
FY09                                                 195,242.56
FY10                                                 179,119.66
FY11                                                 103,033.86
Total:                                               900657.81




                                    25
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not available




                                      26
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not available




                                     27
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

 MINISTRY OF ANIMAL RESOURCES AND FISHERIES GOVERNMENT OF
                THE REPUBLIC OF SOUTH SUDAN

   SUMMARY COMPLETION REPORT ON LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES
                 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Introduction

The Livestock and Fisheries Development Project (LFDP), designed as a five-year
project with two phases, became effective in April 2007. Phase 1 (first two years) focused
on capacity building and animal service delivery, while phase 2 would focus on longer-
term institutional development and markets improvement. The Government of Southern
Sudan (GoSS) financed US$ 3.08m and the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan
(MDTF-SS) US$ 13.49m of the Phase 1 activities. The overall aim of the LFDP over the
5 years design was to assist in the recovery of rural livelihoods based on livestock and
fisheries. The specific objective of the project over the 5 years was to improve the
performance of the livestock and fisheries sectors in five selected States of Southern
Sudan namely Central and Eastern Equatoria, Jonglei, Unity and Upper Nile, through
capacity building, improving animal health, reducing post-harvest losses and improving
market infrastructure. In addition, the project was to help build human, financial and
physical infrastructure, undertake baseline studies that would inform infrastructure
development, contract experienced NGOs to deliver animal health services and inputs,
rehabilitate and expand Marial Lou and Padak Training Institutions, develop live animal
and meat marketing infrastructure, peri-urban dairy and poultry projects and finalize
MARF and develop State fisheries and livestock policies and the supporting legal
framework and harmonize management and capacities across the sectors.

At mid-term review in April 2009, the initial project objectives were still considered as
well-defined and the two-phase approach considered appropriate and no major revisions
were proposed, despite the implementation delays and anticipated funding shortfalls.
However following another implementation review in May 2010, the project was
restructured in November 2010 to separate objectives and activities of Phase 1 from those
for the entire project and the results framework modified to match the narrower scope of
activities. The LFDP purpose for Phase 1 activities was revised as “to build capacity of
the public sector in Southern Sudan to fulfill its mandated role in livestock and fisheries
and to promote continuity in provision of key services in the livestock sector in five
selected States of Southern Sudan?. The project supported institutional development and
capacity building, improvement of service delivery for animal health and livestock & fish
marketing.

Project Implementation and Results

The implementation of the LFDP, which was approved in February 2007 and became
effective in April 2007, has been slow at best. The first 2 years of the project were



                                            28
virtually lost. By November 2008, only US$ 1.2m or 18% of the total funds approved for
the Phase 1 had been disbursed. The actual expenditure to December 31st was
US$ 1,505,524.14, which left a balance of US$3,902,157.50 unspent in the pool account.
The actual expenditure represented 9.06% of the US$16.6m allocated for Phase 1 or
28.12% of the amount transferred to the pool account. This reflected serious under
expenditure and became a major concern. Improved efficiency in utilization and
accounting of financial resources was achieved after recruitment of TA in Procurement
and Financial Management in April 2009. As at 28th February 2011, all the resources
from the MDTF-SS grant, amounting to US$ 13,532,244.75 (US$ 13.49 million plus
bank interest of US$ 42,244.75) had been committed and/or disbursed. A total of
US$ 1,474,369.39 from the GoSS contribution (US$ 3.08 million plus bank interest of
US$ 26,254.26) had been disbursed. This represents over 90% of the amount disbursed
into the pool account/allocated for Phase 1 activities.

The MARF considers the outcome of the project in its reduced scope to be satisfactory,
although the bulk of the work that would have made real impact has been left untouched.
Institutional support and capacity building, despite delays and weaknesses in
administrative systems such as procurement, delivered most of the set targets, as was
with animal health service delivery. Recruitment of technical assistance staff, though late,
and establishment of a Project Coordination Unit under the leadership of the Director
General for Special Projects greatly facilitated project implementation. Facilities and
infrastructure in the States were improved and training in managerial and technical skills
contributed to raising the levels of professional skills and proficiency. There is evidence
that internal capacity for MARF and SDARF/SMARF to assume and discharge their roles
and responsibilities as regulators and service providers to the livestock and fisheries
sector has been improved. In addition, a significant population of livestock in the 5 States
has been protected from diseases and treated from systemic ailments which severely
affect production and productivity. The community-based animal healthcare system has
been restituted through training and equipping of CAHWs, in addition to facilitating
groups (especially of women) to establish income generating activities. The project
vaccinated 580,266 and treated another 389,615 animals (about half of which were cattle)
belonging to approximately 24,800 households. At an estimated market value of US$ 400
per animal, it can be deduced that the project spent about US$ 5.05 million (NGO
contracts and purchase of drugs) to protect community wealth in form of cattle worth
over US$ 310 million, a return on investment of about 61%. The key performance
highlights are as follows:

a) Vehicles and equipment: Sixteen (16) units of motor vehicles and thirty (30) units of
motorcycles (2 vehicles and 5 motorcycles to each State) were bought and distributed to
MARF and the five States. Five generators for the 5 States and one for the headquarters
in addition to 12 VHF and Base Radios, 33 desktop computers, 20 laptops, 20 printers, 20
photocopiers, training equipment and office furniture for MARF and five States were also
received. Additional vehicles and equipment were acquired through the NGO contracts
and later transferred to the States. Nine of the 10 States (Except Western Equatoria) and
Abyei County received a mobile veterinary clinic.




                                            29
b) Civil works: Offices for SMAARIs have been refurbished in Juba for the Central
Equatoria State and Malakal for the Upper Nile State; and new offices in Torit for the
Eastern Equatoria State, in Bor for the Jonglei State and in Bentiu for the Unity State
built. The construction was co-financed by MARF & MAF through the LFDP and
SAFDP. The project also funded the construction of 2 bush shops and limited
rehabilitations at Wau regional laboratory and Maria Lou training institute.

c) Staff training: LFDP funded a team of 4 for a study tour to Kenya, and trained
managers in administration and finance (11 managers in senior management, 12 in
financial management, 2 in procurement, 12 in leadership and team building) and in
specialized technical areas (10 each in epidemiology and disease surveillance, laboratory
techniques and management, animal feed formulation and analysis, fisheries resources
management and aquaculture development) in Kenya and Uganda. Nine staff from
MARF trained as ToTs who in turn trained 113 staff from the States on extension
management. A total of 129 participants from the States attended M&E training-
workshops, and 18 from MARF and States were trained on Fisheries Policy and Strategic
Planning. In February 2008, MARF cancelled all the planned academic courses and
limited the period of training to three months.

d) Technical assistance: A total of 102 person months of Technical Assistance and 97
person months of local experts (State Coordinators and Programme Assistant) were
engaged for implementation support, subject matter input and staff mentoring.

e) CAHW training and equipping: During the baseline survey, 1470 (CAHWs-1309,
AHAs-103 and SPs-58) animal health workers were confirmed active in the 5 States and
targeted for refresher trainings. A total of 854 CAHWs were reached with refresher
courses and 368 new CAHWs, 22 SPs and 17 AHAs trained and provided with kits to fill
the gaps in the targeted 44 Counties. Seven new solar/kerosene refrigerators, 15 motor
bikes and 12 vehicles were procured and eventually handed over to SDARF/SMARF to
improve the service delivery in the State. The CAHWs trained in Eastern Equatoria were
each provided with a bicycle. Twenty (20) veterinary pharmacies were established or
received support in the form of buildings, pharmacy drug kits and veterinary equipment
to enhance operations. Over 600 drug starter-kits were supplied to the CAHWs and a
similar number of service kits for their routine field work. Organization and management
training was also conducted for SDARF/SMARF officials in addition to training on M&E
and extension management for Animal Health Auxiliaries (AHAs) and Stock Persons
(SPs). Over 50 producers groups and CAHWs networks were formed.

f) Animal healthcare: Services were outsourced from three international and two local
NGOs at a combined total input of 92 service months. The adoption, wide acceptance and
re-activation of the Community-based Animal Healthcare (CAHS) as the most feasible
(under the current circumstances) strategy/approach to dissemination of livestock
management and livestock disease control innovations by public and civil society sectors
is a visible outcome of the project. A total of 580,266 vaccinations were carried out
against a target of 800,000, while another 329,589 livestock treatments against a target of
400,000 were achieved. This represented 72.5% and 97.4% coverage and approximately



                                            30
24,800 households against a target of 12,500. Main diseases were Hemorrhagic Fever
(HS), Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP), Contagious Caprine
Pleuropneumonia (CCPP), Blackquarter, Anthrax, Pestes des Petit Ruminantes (PPR),
Trypanasomiasis, Worms, Brucellosis and Mange. Disease surveillance and reporting
formats were designed to assist SDARF/SMARF improve on the management of
information.

g) Studies: The NGO rapid assessments, the baseline survey, the dairy, fisheries and peri-
urban poultry assessments by consultants and the value chain study focusing on red meat
provided valuable baseline data and recommendations that will further guide planning
and development investment decisions in the sector.

Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned

The LFDP was designed to be implemented in two phases. Phase 1 focused on capacity
building, but even this was not comprehensively executed. Some of the infrastructure
development envisaged was not undertaken and long-term training, despite the low
qualifications of many staff, was suspended. It is imperative that resources be mobilized
to execute the training programme in accordance with the prioritized needs to get staff
meet job requirements. The longer term institutional development and continuation with
service delivery envisaged for phase 2 is still necessary if the sector is to develop to its
full potential in the medium and long term. Increased budgetary support is desirable and
necessary for effective delivery of services. Technical Assistance given the “high cost of
international consultants? has to be addressed to the satisfaction of MARF based on need
and quality of services required.

Research is a critical driver for the sector requiring long-term support to yield results, yet
it did not future prominently in the LFDP. The MARF needs to ensure that adequate
research infrastructure is developed and participatory approaches to technology
development and dissemination are promoted and funded. Comprehensive animal health
services likewise require long term intervention with a holistic package that addresses
livestock productivity and livestock and livestock products marketing challenges.
Projects with infrastructure development components are highly desirable by
administrators and beneficiaries alike.

Regarding animal health services delivery, it is important to strengthen the drug
distribution and supply system, providing continued education and opportunities for
supplementary sources of income for the CAHWs, while improving coverage of
veterinary preventive/curative and general extension/advisory services. The organization
of CAHWs into teams and networks, which was not achieved because of the short
duration of NGO contracts, could be effective in creating group accountability, a sense of
belonging and make it easier for supervision. The procurement and handling of vaccines,
however, is delicate and sensitive to entrust to the hands of private veterinary pharmacy
operators. While private supplies for drugs and equipment are quickly developing and
easy to manage, thermolabile vaccines will require more time for elaborate infrastructure
to develop before their handling is privatized.



                                             31
The key lessons learnt are as follows:

a) The LFDP interventions are still valid and relevant as the constraints being addressed
affect the ability of grassroots’ beneficiaries to exploit the full potential of the sector.
LFDP needs to be owned by the MARF and SDARF/SMARF who should regard LFDP
activities as their core activities. The GoSS (and MARF) is managing high expectations
from the Southern Sudanese people, which are even likely to increase after independence.
Since the development of policies, strategies and appropriate systems to deliver services
take time, the frustrations and apathy among some MARF and SDARF/SMARF
personnel and diminishing trust among the grassroots stakeholders may not be surprising.

b) While implementing projects with broad objectives, it is important to be flexible and
patient, and to regularly consult with and involve other stakeholders, especially to address
capacity constraints and the operating conditions often subject to unexpected changes,
complement each others’ efforts and add value to existing interventions. There are often
widely divergent perceptions of the risks, which can be narrowed by dialogue between all
the parties. Thus open, frank and regular dialogue is essential for dealing with
uncertainties and volatile environments. For example, the agreement to restructure the
project was a result of such, when both MDTF and GoSS appreciated the fact that
because of the depressed oil revenues and the large resource outlay for the referendum
and independence, GoSS could not contribute beyond the US$ 3.08m and MDTF had to
come to fill the funding gap.

c) Regular supervision missions and strong monitoring by the Bank were essential as
MARF capacity and understanding of Bank procurement procedures and requirements
were limited. Provision for capacity building was essential since lack of prior experience
in the Bank processes and procedures, limited technical competence and exposure, initial
expectations about the capacity to perform were off the mark. Specifically in the case of
LFDP, there was a gross overestimation of the speed of decision making through a
nascent civil service that was operating on processes and procedures that were in their
formative stages. Strong nationalistic feelings without a clear balancing of costs and
benefits, especially when it came to recruitment of costly TAs, took a toll also.

d) Government commitment, especially in terms of appointment of committed and
qualified staff, provision of adequate funding, and implementation of agreed actions, is
crucial for project success. Organizational weaknesses made implementing organs
overlook some of their key roles including control and approval of the budget,
management of procurement processes and review and submission of financial
management and progress reports or fail to take key decisions. Many of these shortfalls
and inconsistencies were conveniently left to be pointed out by the external monitoring
agents - KPMG Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU), Crown Agent, Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning (MoFEP) and World Bank– and other stakeholders even
when internally many were aware and complaining on the sidelines. This was not a
demonstration of effective control, transparency and professional integrity.




                                            32
e) Coordination within MARF and between MARF and other GoSS ministries,
institutions and States, though much improved, needs to be diligently worked on with
openness and transparency so that none of the parties feel patronized, used or
marginalized. Although it proved slow, expensive and sometimes frustrating, effort to
build the capacity of MARF from within for technical, administrative and finance
services ensured buy in and increased chances of sustaining the activities long after the
project comes to an end. The trade off of this approach was, however, delayed
implementation and the associated anxiety, impatience and frustrations among the
beneficiaries and States. There is need to strengthen the organizational structure and
functions of each of the Directorates and their human resources especially to make them
more visible in the States in terms of service assistance. Strengthening the coordination
mechanisms among the MARF Directorates and enhancement of leadership and
management skills to provide guidance to the sector in achieving its goals and objectives
is required in addition to training based on needs assessment to enhance staff
technical/professional and managerial capacity.

f) Massive investment in capacity building, attitude changes and developing an effective
information generation and management system is necessary. Policies to provide the
direction and institutions to advise and assist MARF plan, implement and manage the
development of the sector need to be developed or created. The capacity of the MARF
Procurement Unit as well as other stakeholders and the perfection of the procurement
processes to achieve an increased speed of implementation process of programmes needs
to be enhanced.

g) Civil works are an important element of service infrastructure. However, where there
is lack of proper quality control, sub-standard work is likely to be done and even the use
of supposedly inexpensive pre-fabricated structures may prove to be more costly in the
long run.

h) Stakeholder, especially beneficiary, involvement in determining priorities and in
design and implementation of development programmes is critical to their success and to
their sustainability. Therefore adequate resources should be devoted to increasing
participatory skills of field staff in addition to maintaining mobility of staff to reach the
communities.

i) Disbursement of funds needs to be synchronized with field activity and procurement
plans to ensure that funds for field operations are available early enough to coincide with
the needs for procurements and activity implementation.

j) Privatization of veterinary drugs supply will only work where the entrepreneurs have
uninterrupted access to suppliers of the drugs and if the entrepreneurs obtain adequate
capital to maintain the necessary storage facilities and replenish stocks. The upcoming
private pharmacy owners need to be linked to major drug suppliers. This may be
enhanced through profiling of successful pharmacy owners to potential drug suppliers,
their mentoring and follow-up training, and monitoring the quality of service provision.




                                             33
k) The use of trusted NGOs with vast knowledge of the area and extensive grassroots
networks and working relationships built with communities, counterparts and
SDARF/SMARF over the years made it easy to implement the projects. Engagement with
beneficiary communities, counterparts and partners in a transparent and accountable
manner is a major incentive for participation in projects.

l) The NGOs operating in the sector have for a very long time relied on their familiarity
with the local context and seem to be little concerned about the existence of a well-
established legal and regulatory framework. There was a clear separation of roles and
responsibilities between government AHAs and CAHWs in the delivery of animal
healthcare services through the NGO contracts. In addition, it was evident, at least
tentatively, that a satisfactory framework for charges and cost-recovery can be created on
the basis of willingness-to-pay and solid financial analysis; and rules for reviewing and
adjusting charges are transparently negotiated and set with the communities. It is also
important to recognize that CAHS is neither Local Administration (LA) nor
SDARF/SMARF structure and CAHWs will not take any responsibility for LA and
SDARF/SMARF functions without remuneration. Government cannot control or manage
an extension service that it neither supports nor has a direct link with. This calls for a
policy and regulatory framework that clearly recognizes and supports private sector
service delivery, including structural arrangements for public-private partnership and
engagement.

m) Cost recovery alone was assessed as not being able to sustain CAHW livelihoods,
even at full cost recovery on drugs and professional fees. CAHWs who participated in
other income generating livelihood activities or were attached to and/or owned animals
tended to be more active as well as proactive and remained active despite experiencing all
constraints faced by others.

n) Deep involvement of Directorate of Veterinary Services (DVS) may not guarantee the
effectiveness of regulation of service quality and the performance of CAHWs,
particularly when DVS is unable to cope with the growing demand for their services in
numerous operational areas scattered over wide distances. At best, they should get
involved periodically (for example, in the review of drug prices, in audits of service
quality, or in handling disputes that cannot be resolved by mutual agreement). With
decentralization, delegating the day-to-day monitoring and enforcement of service quality
and performance targets to the local entities in their capacity as the public managers of
animal health service delivery appears to be a realistic approach. Day-to-day oversight
by the local authorities is not only a practical necessity but in theory also introduces more
accountability than oversight by central entities: local authorities and others close to the
service providers, customers, and their representatives are best placed to carry out routine
monitoring and resolve minor problems.

o) Effective oversight requires that service providers report regularly on their
performance; that facilities exist for customers to report unresolved complaints to the
oversight entity; and that the oversight entity has the capacity to evaluate performance
data, process customer complaints, and respond appropriately. Because this capacity is



                                             34
often weak at the local level, oversight arrangements need to be designed realistically.
For example, specifying more performance targets than local authorities can effectively
monitor may not only overwhelm their capacity but also undermine their authority if they
cannot challenge any reported information with authority. Only the most essential
performance indicators need to be monitored and local actors need regular training in
procedures and methods.

p) Although great effort was put into the specification of service (and quality) targets
(M&E framework and indicators) to make them appropriate, the monitoring and
regulatory processes and procedures were still fairly weak. NGOs and SDARF/SMARF
complained that the indicators were many and some of the information was not useful to
them. They also lacked analytical capacities.

q) It is a well-established regulatory precept that requiring the service provider to report
on its performance regularly and periodic verification of these reports are the most cost-
effective methods of monitoring service providers. In addition, periodic, independent
audits of performance are a practical method for verifying performance. Supervising
entities need to be more diligent in reading and approving performance reports against
agreed targets before they are passed for payment. Adequate funding for the supervisory
and monitoring roles is essential. Supervising entities need to keep track and be informed
about any failures, to meet with the contractors to determine the cause of any such
failures, and to agree on steps to be taken to rectify them. Repeated failures should
warrant sanctions, otherwise stakeholders lose confidence in the system.




                                            35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Available




                                      36
Annex 9. Project’s Major Achievements by Components

A. Introduction
The purpose of this annex is to provide more details about project achievements. The
components are presented and discussed in line with the original project as four
components. After the formal restructuring in November 2010, Components 3 and 4 were
merged into one component as: support to livestock and fish marketing.

B. Institutional Development and Capacity Building
The purpose of this component was to create the internal capacity for MARF and SDARF
to assume and discharge their roles and responsibilities as regulators and service
providers to the livestock and fisheries sector in Southern Sudan. Project support would
help:
     define the roles and responsibilities of the Government at the National Unity,
       GoSS and States levels, and the private sector, for the development of the
       livestock and fisheries sector, and enact basic legislation and regulations to
       facilitate these relationships;
      improve the capacities of MARF to formulate policies, design appropriate legal
       instruments and set priorities;
      improve the capacity of MARF and the five SDARFs under the project to develop
       implementation plans and budgets, and coordinate service delivery among
       partners for accelerated and sustainable development of the sector;
      build technical and managerial skills, at senior levels of MARF and the five
       SDARFs;
      develop MARF’s monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capacity and establish its
       M&E system to measure the performance of the sector (including assessment of
       the development impact);
      MARF to carry out critical studies to help fill the information and data gaps to
       enable prioritization of investment decisions;
      improve the working conditions for MARF and five SDARFs through building
       and refurbishing offices; and
      improve capacity for sustainable management of natural resources.

The project was to finance technical assistance for institutional and organizational
development, training, construction of MARF headquarter offices and rehabilitation of
five SDARF offices (where necessary), office equipment, and vehicles, studies and
recurrent costs. Technical Assistance services for capacity building and project
implementation support, construction of MARF head office and urgent rehabilitation of
five SDARF offices, office equipment, vehicles for MARF, studies and operating cost
and SDARF would be financed in the first phase.




                                          37
Achievements and Outcomes
Most of the activities that were planned for the first phase under this component were
accomplished. SMAARI offices in Juba for the Central Equatoria State and Malakal for
the Upper Nile State were renovated; and new offices built in Torit for the Eastern
Equatoria State, in Bor for the Jonglei State and in Bentiu for the Unity State. Funding for
the construction of the MARF headquarters as initially planned was not provided due to
failure by the implementing agency to adhere to the Bank’s procedures during
procurement. Resources were later availed for design of the headquarters but when an
outbreak of East Coast Fever was reported, these were re-allocated to the purchase of
emergency drugs and vaccines. Sixteen (16) units of motor vehicles and thirty (30) units
of motorcycles (2 vehicles and 5 motorcycles to each State, 2 vehicles at MARF and 2
vehicles each for Marial Lou and Padak training centers) were bought and distributed to
MARF, the five States and training centers. Five generators for the 5 States and one for
the headquarters in addition to 12 VHF and Base Radios, 33 desktop computers, 20
laptops, 20 printers, 20 photocopiers and office furniture for MARF and five States were
also procured and distributed. Additional vehicles and equipment were acquired through
NGOs that were contracted for animal health service delivery and later transferred to the
States.
Although the human resource survey and planning that was anticipated under the project
was never carried out, training needs were identified and prioritized and some addressed
(Appendix 1). The project funded a team of 4 for a study tour to Kenya, and trained
managers in administration and finance (11 managers in senior management, 12 in
financial management, 2 in procurement, 12 in leadership and team building) and in
specialized technical areas (10 in epidemiology and disease surveillance, 10 in laboratory
techniques and management and 10 in animal feed formulation and analysis) in Kenya
and Uganda. Nine staff from MARF trained as Training of Trainers (ToTs) who in turn
trained 113 staff from the States on extension management. A total of 129 participants
from the States attended M&E training-workshops. All planned academic courses (Msc.
and PhDs) were cancelled partly because of their cost and also because such training
would involve staff being away from their duty stations for prolonged periods in a
situation where staff numbers were already low.

The planned monitoring and evaluation framework for the MARF including provisions
for monitoring project-related activities was produced with the support of a Technical
Assistant. Staff at MARF and in the states were trained in M&E but no tools were
provided to facilitate data collection and transfer. The baseline study was also produced
albeit belatedly and this provided information that would be useful for sector planning.
Although resources under the project were not used as envisaged for formulating policies
and designing appropriate legal instruments and regulatory frameworks, the GoSS has
undertaken work in this area and produced drafts that are currently under review. As a
result of the project, many staff at MARF headquarters and at State level attest to their
improved capacity to guide, manage and implement sectoral activities effectively.




                                            38
C. Improvement of Service Delivery for Animal Health
The objective of this component was to control diseases which affect livestock
productivity and constrain access to local and regional markets. In order to ensure that the
public sector does not crowd out private providers of veterinary services in the long-run,
support would build on, and expand, the community-based service delivery system which
was operating in Southern Sudan. Support would therefore help to strengthen the capacity
of the CAHW and Veterinary Pharmacists (VP) networks. Experienced NGOs would be
contracted to build capacity of, and supervise, the CAHW and VP networks. Support
would also be provided to train field veterinarians and veterinary technicians to supervise
animal health service delivery.
In addition to NGO services, the project would finance construction of one central (Juba)
and two regional laboratories (Wau and Malakal), expansion of the Marial Lou Livestock
Training Center, regional experts to provide training of trainers, contingency drugs and
cold chains, cost of mobile clinics and requisite laboratory and field diagnostic equipment
and supplies. The NGOs services will be contracted at the beginning of first year and
construction and equipping of the laboratories would also be undertaken in the first phase
of the project.

Achievements and Outcomes

Three NGOs were contracted in 2008 to undertake the delivery of animal health services
in 9 Counties in the States of Jonglei and Central Equatoria on a pilot basis. After this
“proof of concept?, another two new NGOS were selected (for a total of five NGOs) and
contracted to provide animal health services for six months at a cost of US$ 600,000 for
each of the five States and covering all the 44 Counties. The scope of work under the
contracts broadly consisted of four elements: 1) Rapid assessment and development of a
service delivery plan; 2) Selection, training and equipping of CAHWs; 3) Delivery of
animal health services; and 4) Monitoring and reporting.

The NGOs, trained State personnel on several aspects such as- veterinary business,
epidemiology and disease surveillance, information systems, monitoring and evaluation,
laboratory techniques and management, and animal feed formulation and analysis.
Refresher and new training was conducted for CAHWs and other animal health workers
on disease control aspects (see Table below). Training of CAHWs included but was not
limited to, topics like normal animal, organs and systems, diseases, history taking,
clinical examination, causes of disease, medicines, monitoring, cost recovery, vaccination,
reporting outbreaks, and dialogue and extension skills. Over 100 community dialogue
workshops (CDW), involving 30-50 participants, on selection of CAHWs for training,
cost recovery and the roles of stakeholders were also conducted across the 44 counties
covered. A total of 1,284 livestock extension personnel (CAHWs, AHAs, field vets, vet
technicians and vet pharmacists) were trained and/or refreshed.




                                            39
Number of Animal health workers trained

 Type of personnel        C. Equatoria      E.        Jonglei       Unity     Upper       Total
                                            Equatoria                         Nile
 Technicians              -                 -         5             -         12          17
 Veterinary Assistants    -                 -         -             -         6           6
 Stock Persons            -                           7             8         7           22
 Animal Health            -                 3         5             24        7           17
 Auxiliaries
 New CAHWs trained        89                18           255        6         0           368
 CAHWs refreshed          28                59           341        268       158         854

The NGOs adopted the Community-based Animal Healthcare System (CAHS) for
implementation in which community-based animal health workers (CAHWs) handle
livestock disease outbreaks at the village and cattle camp levels. A total of 580,266
vaccinations were carried out while another 389,615 livestock treatments against were
achieved. Twenty veterinary pharmacies, were also established in the counties, and are
now run as private undertaking by CAHSs and other practitioners. These pharmacies are
now in business contact with veterinary drug suppliers. The latter appear interested in
pursuing the business with the local pharmacies by providing veterinary supplies on
agreed timetable and terms and conditions. This means the pharmacies have become
important links between drug suppliers and private veterinary operators, hence laying the
ground for the emergence of private animal health service in the States. This development
should be encouraged as it could result in a sustainable model for expanding private
veterinary practice in the rural areas.

In addition, the project funded and distributed 12 mobile veterinary clinics (with
diagnostic and treatment capabilities) to provide another layer of disease detection and
treatment capability under the control of technically qualified personnel from SDARF.
States were linked to a VSAT system that enabled reporting of disease outbreaks - when
detected by the CAHWs or by SDARF staff – to the MARF. The project also supported
the limited rehabilitation of a regional veterinary laboratory at Wau.

D. Livestock Marketing Support

This component was to focus on the development of market facilities and peri-urban
dairy development. Access to markets would be improved through monitoring and
analyzing the price trends in major markets, and dissemination of price information
through print and other appropriate media; training of livestock traders and herders in
auction systems, grading and certification, and legal procedures for export; access to
veterinary services in the holding grounds, including inspection and certification services;
and meat inspectors for quality control. Physical facilities for markets, such as (i) five
holding and auction yards/grounds in marketing towns and border trading points with
Uganda, Kenya and possibly Ethiopia; (ii) well-demarcated and serviced (water supply,
veterinary services) livestock trading routes; and (iii) five sanitary slaughtering facilities
in selected towns would be funded.


                                             40
Under this component a study would be carried out in the first year to assess the potential
of peri-urban dairy activities in Southern Sudan and identify suitable entry points to
promote sustainable dairy development. Based on the results of the feasibility study, an
experienced NGO or private sector with experience in dairy development in Southern
Sudan and/or countries in the region would be contracted to organize and train milk
producers, and carry out dairy production activities.

In phase 1, focus would be on: training of traders and herders on livestock marketing,
conducting a livestock marketing study to identify priority internal and trade markets,
infrastructure support required and priority stock routes, conducting a study to assess the
potential of peri-urban dairy activities in Southern Sudan and identify suitable entry
points to promote sustainable dairy development. Other activities including project
investments in physical facilities would be based on findings of studies that were to be
commissioned and would start in the second phase of the project.

Achievements and Outcomes
As outlined above, with the exception of studies designed to lay the foundation for
project interventions, most of Component 3 activities were programmed to be
implemented in Phase 2 when more resources became available. Under this component,
the project funded a value chain study that focused on red meat. Among others, the study
provides information on the size of the sector, demand and supply situation, major
constraints to better sector performance and provides a number of interventions and
investments that are needed to improve the performance of the sector.

The project also funded peri-urban poultry enterprises that targeted widows and
unemployed youth. Twenty five (25) groups were mobilized, members trained and
supported to renovate their poultry houses, acquire equipment, feeds and day-old chicks
and linked to market outlets. An extension manual on poultry production was produced
and copies printed and distributed to farmers and extension staff in Central Equatoria
state. A total of 19 groups were each issued between 800 and 1000 day old chicks for
meat production while 6 other groups had each units stocked with 500 day old chicks.
Farmers were also supported with feed and veterinary services. A government feed mill
was also rehabilitated to address feed needs in and around Juba.

E. Development of Fish Production and Marketing

This component was supposed to help develop an effective service delivery system for
the development of fisheries resources, minimize post-harvest losses, improve access to
markets, and build capacity of field officials. The project would finance a baseline survey
of fisheries resources and the development of a fisheries database. Support for training on
technical and business skills to enhance fish production and storage, fish processing, and
marketing to both the fisheries personnel of MARF and SDARF, as well as outreach
programs for fishers would also be funded. The project would finance the expansion of
the training facility at Padak, and regional experts to provide training of trainers in
Southern Sudan, fishers’ training, demonstration activities, and development of capacity
for extension service. Based on technical and financial assessment of the market potential


                                            41
for fish and interest of the communities, fish landing and other facilities would be
supported under the project on co-financing terms with beneficiary communities. Apart
from training and a number of assessments, most of the activities would be implemented
in the second phase of the project.

Achievements and Outcomes
Through specialized TA, the project supported the establishment of the Directorate of
Fisheries and Aquaculture Development (both at MARF and SDARF) including the
development of an appropriate organizational structure, terms of reference for established
positions, and benchmarks for staff performance appraisals; and internal policies to
strengthen collaboration and coordination. In addition two bush shops (stores stocking
and selling fishing gear and equipment) have been constructed at Bor (Jonglei) and
Terekeka (Central Equatoria) close to the banks of the Nile. The bush shops are initially
to be jointly operated by the DFAD, SDARF/SMARF and fisherfolk cooperatives being
established at the two communities. A starter kit of 2 outboard engines twines and hooks
and other fishing gear was provided to each cooperative. The “bush shop? business is to
be run on a full cost recovery basis and will gradually be entirely run and operated by the
cooperative/community.




                                            42
                                                                         Appendix 1
Staff Training Under the Project

Training Course Detail                                  Participants   Location & Year
Leadership & team Building                              12             Uganda 2008
Senior Managers for 21st Century Managers               11             Kenya 2008
Finance Management                                      12             Kenya 2008
Epidemiology and Disease Surveillance                   10             Kenya 2008
Laboratory Techniques & Management                      10             Kenya 2008
Feed Formulation and Analysis                           10             Kenya 2008
TOT in Extension Services & Management                  9              Kenya 2009
State level training on Extension services in Unity,    113            Southern Sudan
Jonglei, Upper Nile, E. Equatoria, C.Equatoria                         2010
Monitoring and Evaluation training course for the       129            Southern Sudan
State staff                                                            2010
Procurement and Selection of Consultants                1              Swaziland 2010
Finance and audit management skills for donor funded    1              Swaziland 2010
projects
Total                                                   318

Source: Directorate of Research, Extension and training Dept. of Training, February 21,
2011




                                            43
Annex 10. Project Preparation and Implementation Environment.


INTRODUCTION

This note aims at highlighting the institutional, political and policy environment that
existed when the project was conceived, prepared and implemented. The main purpose of
the note is to identify some of the key factors that influenced the design and
implementation of the project, and eventually draw some useful lessons from this
experience. For ease of discussion, the note is divided into two sections: a) project
preparation and appraisal; and b) project implementation. The note ends with a brief
concluding remark with a view to capturing the main lessons learned.

PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL

One of the dominant themes during the signing of the CPA was the need for rapid accrual
of peace dividends to the people in order to consolidate the peace achieved. Major
documents such as the report by the JAM stressed the need to achieve “...tangible
differences in the short-term and provide the foundation for broad based prosperity?. To
this end, the JAM advocated the front-loading of financial resources into the development
programs, thereby ensuring the realization of peace dividends rapidly and the
consolidation of the secured peace.

It is apparent from the above that the frame of mind of policy makers and practitioners
that prevailed during the signing of CPA was a genuine need to generate quick economic
and financial benefits for the people, while at the same time addressing the poor social
and physical infrastructure and the weak institutional capacity. This encouraged the
emergence of a development approach that called for the formulation of substantial
investment programs aimed at realizing immediate benefits, while strengthening/creating
implementing capacity for executing these very programs. In retrospect, it can be said
that this approach was risky because it under estimated the problems associated with the
limited capabilities of the nascent Government and its institutions in implementing and
managing complex development programs. The risk of financial management was also
high given the elevated level of resources and limited Government capacity.

The Livestock and Fisheries Development Project (LFDP) was conceived in the context
of such an environment, and project design and appraisal must have been influenced by
this widespread optimism that prevailed at that time. Otherwise, it is difficult to see how
a relatively complex development program like the LFDP, was put together with the
expectation of implementing it successfully, in spite of the lack of basic information
required for project formulation and the well known limitation in Government
implementation capacity. In fact, some of the Government institutions were still in the
making, and were expected to be strengthened under the project.

During project preparation, the security situation in the country did not enable the
collection of basic information; hence no analytical work or background studies of any



                                            44
kind were conducted to inform project design, especially on the scope and range of
activities that would be financed. The absence of any analytical underpinning, and a
general lack of information about the sector, has resulted in considerable uncertainty
around some of the project elements. Because of this uncertainty surrounding some
project activities and the lack of data, a results framework was not finalized, and its
completion was deferred to follow the completion of a baseline survey and stakeholder
consultations that would be conducted during implementation. For several reasons
however, the results framework was not satisfactorily completed on time and this
complicated project monitoring to the very end of the intervention. In addition, during
appraisal, the Ministry of Animal Resources and Fisheries (MARF) had just been created
and was still in its formative stages. The nascent Ministry was poorly staffed, lacked
skilled human resources and, apart from staff salaries, it had no budget for routine
operations. As a matter of fact, during project preparation the debate was polarized
between two sides: those in government who thought the project should be used as a
vehicle or opportunity to operationalize the entire ministry, and on the other side those
who argued that the project should be a well circumscribed operation which would work
through the relevant departments to execute activities that had been agreed to. These
different views regarding what the project was and what it could do persisted throughout
much of the implementation period.

The above state of affairs should have favored the adoption of a more cautious and
realistic development program that is simple and commensurate with the implementation
capacity of MARF, thereby minimizing the risks associated with the capacity limitations
and paucity of basic information. Yet, LFDP was designed as a wide-ranging
development program that called for high level of implementation capacity. The
expectation of successful execution of such a complex program as the LFDP was justified
by the provision of substantial TA personnel who would assist with project
implementation. However, apart from the fact that the MARF staff were averse to TA,
there are many areas of management that the TA personnel could not supplant
Government officials. In retrospect, it can be said that excessive optimism about the
speed with which developmental gains could be delivered under conditions that prevailed
at the time in Southern Sudan played a major role in finalizing a project that can be easily
assessed as a difficult task for MARF to implement.

PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

After the approval of the project, its start up faced several difficulties, mainly due to: the
lack of experience in implementing development programs (as opposed to emergency
interventions); lack of understanding of Bank’s modus operandi; aversion to technical
assistance; and resistance by the senior staff to be bound by the agreed project plan of
action and related budget. Consequently, very little was accomplished during the first two
project-years. Although the approved project clearly settled for a well circumscribed
operation, the same polarization observed at appraisal regarding the real meaning of the
project resurfaced again. However, this time it was between the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) and the DGs in the Ministry. The PIU correctly considered the project as a
well defined operation with clearly identified tasks, while the DGs, or the heads of the



                                             45
technical Directorates, regarded the project as the Ministry’s funding mechanism that
would finance each Directorate’s annual plan, regardless of the relevance of activities to
the project. Further, the DGs expected to control and have an easy access to project funds.
Therefore, from the onset, there was no consensus in the Ministry on what the project
was and what it was not. The misunderstandings and tensions resulting from this discord
greatly slowed implementation progress, especially because it undermined the PIU’s
decision making authority. As a result, important activities such as the baseline survey
and the stakeholder consultations, were not carried out as planned. Because of these
omissions, the project retained key indicators some of which were not related to the
actual activities that were being implemented on the ground.

The delay in project implementation was not peculiar to the LFDP as other programs
within the MDTFs also suffered the same fate, and the common denominator for this was
the limited program implementation and management capacity within the Government.
The implementation delays, and the consequent delay in the achievement of the promised
rapid realization of tangible peace dividends, created some anxiety within the
Government as this was perceived as an important political risk. Sometimes, delays in
achieving the programs’ objectives were blamed on development partners. For instance,
several DGs of the Ministry blamed the Bank for the delays in implementing LFDP.

During implementation, risks associated with timely availability of Government
contribution for financing the project also became a problem. At the time the project was
prepared, most donor pledges had not been paid in to the MDTF. Because of this resource
limitation, and also partly due to capacity weaknesses and a highly risky environment, a
decision was reached to adopt a phased approach to project implementation. The
financing plan was for the MDTF to contribute US$7.7 million to Phase one and US$12.3
million to Phase two of the project, for a total of 20 million. The government would then
contribute US$8.9 million and US$ 13.1 million, respectively to the two phases for a total
of 22 million. However, when global oil prices plummeted in 2009, the government was
not in a position to provide the full commitment of 8.9 million dollars that it had made to
the first phase. The Bank agreed to frontload what would have been the MDTF
contribution to the second phase in order to allow completion of phase one activities, on
the understanding that when its fiscal position improved, the government would
compensate for the frontloaded funds by contributing more to the second phase while the
Bank contributed less. After this new financing plan had been agreed to, donors decided
to direct some of the money that was initially supposed to go through the MDTF to other
channels, creating a resource shortfall in the MDTF. Still, the Bank’s task team held to
the hope that the government would contribute its share to the project, and therefore
phase two of the project would be funded. However, even when oil prices recovered and
its fiscal position improved, the government was not able to commit any more resources
to the project beyond what it had contributed before the financial crisis, because of the
heavy resource outlay that it had made to finance the referendum and the political
transition process. As a result of this development, the project was restructured to reduce
and circumscribe its scope to be in line with the amount of available funding.




                                            46
While all the above mentioned difficulties were militating against the successful
implementation of the project as designed, there was no major action by the Bank to
redress the situation early on. The only important measure taken by the Bank was the
restructuring of the project to take into account the changed funding situation, which
came towards the end of the implementation period. It is not clear as to why LFDP was
not declared a problem project early on, and tackled as such by the Bank, given that it
suffered from serious under implementation from the outset and was hampered by
considerable institutional, policy and managerial problems. However, it can be speculated
that one of the reasons could be related to the prevailing attitude of wanting to succeed at
any cost, hence the rejection of entertaining any notion of failure, as this would mean
jeopardizing the attainment of the tangible peace dividends aspired by the Government
and its development partners.

Conclusion

The main lesson that comes out from this brief account is that practitioners involved in
project design should squarely confront the contradiction between desired rapid results
and constraints in capacity in post-conflict environments. A successful project design
requires realistic and tenable proposals, following a technical analysis and assessment of
available capacities to the extent possible under circumstances at the time. When
circumstances greatly limit assessment, the limits should be noted transparently. By the
same token, practitioners involved in project implementation should promptly
acknowledge failing operations, and endeavor to put them right in a professional manner.




                                            47
Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents

GoSS/MFEP, South Sudan Development Plan – 2011-2013, (August, 2011).
MARF, LFDP, Environmental Audit Report (June 2011).
MARF, LFDP, Monitoring and Evaluation Framework of the Livestock and Fisheries
  Development Project, (April 2009).
MARF, LFDP, Project Implementation Manual, (February 28, 2007).
MARF, LFDP, Results of the Value Chain Study of the Livestock Sector in Five States of
  Southern Sudan, (October 2010).
MARF, LFDP, SNV, Provision of Technical Assistance to Foresee the Healthy
  Establishment and Development of the Fisheries Sector in Southern Sudan, Terminal
  Report (May14-September 15, 2010).
MARF, LFDP, The Joint Baseline Survey, Report on the Agriculture and Animal
  Resources in Southern Sudan (October 2010).
MDTF-SS, An Analysis of the Result to Date - outputs and Outcomes- (August 30, 2010).
World Bank, Grant Agreement, Livestock and Fisheries Development Project (February
  27, 2007).
World Bank, LFDP, AFTRL and Sudan Country Team, Sudan Monitoring and
  Evaluation Review of the SDD Portfolio (January 2008).
World Bank, LFDP, Final Project Proposal (October 12, 2006).
World Bank, LFDP, Implementation Status and Results Report, Sequence 1 to 7 (2008-
  2011).
World Bank, LFDP, Mid-Term Review (March 2009).
World Bank, LFDP, Restructuring Paper (November 18, 2010).
World Bank, LFDP, Supervision Mission (June 06, 2007).
World Bank, United Nations, Government of Sudan and Sudan People’s Liberation
  Movement (SPLM), Joint Assessment Mission, Framework for Sustainable Peace,
  Development and Poverty Eradication (March 18, 2005.




                                         48
                                                                                                                 28˚E                                    30˚E                                                    32˚E       To                                        34˚E
             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                             Khartoum
             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                Renk

              0         50          100           150 Kilometers
                                                                                                                              SUDAN
                                                                                                                                                         To                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                       Kadugli                                                                                      Ed Damazin
              0                50                     100                 150 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH
                                                                                         To                   To
                                                                                                           Babanusa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SUDAN
                                                                                        Nyala

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Paloich
                                                               Arab
                                                      Bahr el '
            10˚N              To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10˚N
                             Nyala                                                                                                                                                                                                UPPER NILE
                                                                                                                              ABYEI                                                                                     Kodok

                                                                                                                               Abyei                                     l Ghazal
                                                                                                  NORTHERN                                                       Ba h r e                                    Malakal
                                                                                                   BAHR AL                                                Bentiu
                                                                                            Lol    GHAZAL

                                                                                                                                                   UNITY                                                                                                                       ETHIOPIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         So
                                                                                                                                Jur




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ba
                                                                                                       Aweil                                                                                                                                     Nasser




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                           f
                                                                                                                                                                                       ara
                                                                      Raga




                                                                                                                                                                              Bahr ez Z
                                      I                                                                                                      Meshra’
                                          r                                                                                    Warab                                                                                    Waat
                                              o
            8˚N                                   n                                                                                                                                             Ayod
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8˚N
                                                       s                                                                               WARAB
                                                           t
                                                               o
                                                                     po




                                                                      o
                                                                   n S
                                                                                                           Wau
                                                                                                                                                N u b i a n                                                                                    Akobo
                                                                     e
                                                                                 WESTERN                                                                                                                                                                       Ak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ob
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JONGLEI
                                                                              BAHR AL GHAZAL                                           Ton




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o
                                                                          P
                                                                          P




                   CENTRAL
                                                                                             go
                                                                          l




                                                                                                                                                                                     Shambe
                                                                              a




                                                                                                                                                   LAKES
                                                                                          Pon




                   AFRICAN
                                                                              tt
                                                                                  e
                                                                                  e




                                                                                                                                                       Rumbek
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Pibor
                                                                                   a




                   REPUBLIC




                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                      u
                                                                                      u




                                                                                                               Sue




                                                                                                                                                                                               hite
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nil




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                      e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6˚N




             SOUTH SUDAN                                                                To
                                                                                      Djema
                                                                                                       Tambura
                                                                                                     Li Yubu                            WESTERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          CENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EASTERN
                                                                                                                                       EQUATORIA                                                       EQUATORIA                                     EQUATORIA
                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5˚N

                        WILAYAH (STATE) CAPITALS                                                                                                Maridi                                                      JUBA                                               Kapoeta
                                                                                                                             Yambio
                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                          Torit
                                                                                                                                                                                                     t o n g
                        RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                 I m o                              M t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      s .
                                                                                                    D.R. OF CONGO                                                                                                                    Kinyeti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KENYA
                        MAIN ROADS                                                    4˚N                                                                                                                                                                                                        4˚N
                                                                                                                                                                             Yei                                                  (3187 m)
                        RAILROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 38572
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nimule
                                                                                                                      To
                        WILAYAH (STATE) BOUNDARIES                                                                   Isiro                                                                                                     UGANDA
JULY 2011




                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                28˚E                                     30˚E                                                    32˚E                                                  34˚E
