                                                 57777




                   FINAL PROJECT PROPOSAL


                             ON A


                    PROPOSED MDTF GRANT



                           TO THE



               GOVERNMENT OF SOUTHERN SUDAN



                            FOR A




SOUTHERN SUDAN: LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                        October 12, 2006
                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1  ­  December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AHA      Animal Health Auxiliaries
CAHW     Community Animal Health Workers
CBIST    Capacity Building and Implementation Support Team
COMESA   Common Market for East and Southern Africa
CPA      Comprehensive Peace Agreement
CRS      Catholic Relief Services
CQ       Consultant Qualification
DG       Director General
DSP      Directorate of Special Projects
EAA      External Audit Agent
EC       European Commission
ECHO     European Commission Humanitarian Office
ESMF     Environment and Social Management Framework
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
FM       Financial Management
FMD      Foot and Mouth Disease
GNU      Government of National Unity
GoSS     Government of Southern Sudan
IAS      International Accounting Standards
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDP      Internally Displaced Persons
IFMIS    International Financial Management Information System
IPP      Interim Project Proposal
JAM      Joint Assessment Mission
LCS      Least Cost Selection
LICUS    Low Income Countries under Stress
LFICC    Livestock and Fisheries Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee
MA       Monitoring Agent
MAF      Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MARF     Ministry of Animal Resources and Fisheries
MDTF     Multi Donor Trust Fund
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIM      Master Implementation Manual
MOEFP    Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
MOWECT   Ministry of Environment, Wildlife Conservation and Tourism
MVWMP    Medical and Veterinary Waste Management Plan
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGOs     Non-Government Organizations
OIE      Organization for Control of Epizootics
OLS      Operation Lifeline Sudan
PA       Procurement Agent
PAA      Project Accounting Agent
PACE     Pan African Program for Control of Epizootics
PDU      Project Disbursement Unit
PIM      Project Implementation Manual
PSC      Project Steering Committee
PWC      Price Waterhouse and Coopers
QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Selection
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
SAAR     Secretariat for Agriculture and Animal Resources
SBD      Standard Bidding Documents
SDARF    State Directorate of Animal Resources and Fisheries
SMAARI   State Ministries of Agriculture, Animal Resources and Irrigation
SMC      Safeguards Management Committee
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
SP       Stock Persons
SPCRP    Sudan Productive Capacity Recovery Program
SPSC     State Project Steering Committee
SPLM     Sudan Peoples Liberation Movement
SVLC     Supporting Livestock of Vulnerable Communities
TA       Technical Assistance
TOR      Terms of Reference
TST      Technical Support Team
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
UNICEF   United Nations International Children Emergency Fund
VP       Veterinary Pharmacists
   SOUTHERN SUDAN: LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE ....................................................................... 1
   1. Country and Sector Issues................................................................................................... 1
   2. Sector Issues........................................................................................................................ 2
   3. Rationale for MDTF Bank Involvement............................................................................. 4
B.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION................................................................................................. 6
   1. Project Development Objectives and Key Performance Indicators.................................... 6
   2. Project Components ............................................................................................................ 6
   3. Project Location .................................................................................................................. 8
   4. Cost of the Project............................................................................................................... 8
C.    IMPLEMENTATION....................................................................................................... 10
   1. Project Implementation Period ......................................................................................... 10
   2. Partnership Arrangements................................................................................................. 10
   3. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements .............................................................. 10
   4. Procurement Arrangements .............................................................................................. 11
   5. Financial Management Arrangements .............................................................................. 12
   6. Monitoring and Reporting................................................................................................. 14
   7. Sustainability and Critical risks ........................................................................................ 14
   8. Social Issues...................................................................................................................... 15
 Annex 1: Sector Context........................................................................................................... 17
 Annex 2: Detailed Project Description ..................................................................................... 27
 Annex 3: Detailed Implementation Arrangements ................................................................... 31
 Annex 4: Program Costs ........................................................................................................... 35
 Annex 5: Initial Implementation Plan for the First Year ........................................................... 36
 Annex 6: Results Framework and Monitoring........................................................................... 39
 Annex 7: Procurement Arrangements....................................................................................... 43
 Annex 8: Detailed Financial Management Arrangements........................................................ 49
 Map of Sudan............................................................................................................................. 60
A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1.         Country and Sector Issues

     1.    The signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) in January 2005 has opened a
     new chapter in which the Government of Southern Sudan (GoSS) has an opportunity and
     obligation to establish a capacity to serve the people of Southern Sudan, retaining the important
     contribution of the NGO sector, but shifting the locus of control away from external parties. This
     is particularly important in the livestock and fisheries sector and crop agriculture sectors, on
     which a majority of the people in this area will have to base the recovery of their livelihoods.

     2.    The framework for recovery and development is presented in the Joint Assessment Mission
     (JAM) report 1 which states that the GoSS has adopted a vision for equitable development and
     poverty reduction but the region will have to start from a very low level in terms of institutional
     capacity and socio-economic development. According to the JAM report agriculture (including
     livestock and fisheries) is the main source of income for about 85% of the people in Southern
     Sudan. There is no data on the contribution of agriculture to the economy of Southern Sudan.

     3.      In Southern Sudan, there is evidence of high incidence of poverty. Key education and
     health indicators are among the lowest in the world. Infrastructure is virtually non-existent, and a
     public administration system has to be developed from scratch. Low levels of income and
     purchasing power, together with disruption associated with conflict and very limited
     infrastructure, have constrained economic activity and market development. Since the signature
     of the CPA, it is estimated that, out of the 4 million Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and 2
     million refugees, more than 0.5 million have returned to the South. As security improves, more
     will gradually move back, thus compounding the challenges. The development strategy outlined
     in the JAM report is to promote rural development through a big push on basic infrastructure to
     support internal and external trade linkages and services to promote the productivity of
     agriculture, among other things. The report has indicated that transformation of the agriculture
     sector (including livestock and fisheries) and promoting private sector development are central to
     the challenge of peace and development in Southern Sudan.

     4.    The agro-ecological characteristics of Southern Sudan determine the pattern of agricultural
     activity. The area can be divided into three zones. The Central zone, covering the northern part
     of Upper Nile State, has modest rainfall and relatively fertile soil. The Flood zone, covering the
     south part of Upper Nile State, most part of Jonglei State, a large part of the Lakes and Unity
     States and the extreme northern part of Bahr el Ghazal State, receives heavy rainfall and has
     heavy impermeable soil. The Equatorial zone extends over most of the other parts of Southern
     Sudan, has more rainfall than the Central zone and has poor quality soil. Animal production is an
     important activity among the communities in Upper Nile, Unity, eastern part of Jonglei most of
     Bahr el Ghazal, Eastern and part of Central Equatoria. Fishing is an important activity for the
     communities living along the Upper Nile area, Lakes, Jonglei, Unity and the northern part of
     Central Equatoria.

     5.    Livestock production represents a significant proportion of agricultural activity, and is
     directly affected by land and public investment policies, particularly as these apply to migratory
     grazing and trading routes. Estimates of cattle population in Southern Sudan varies from 8-10

1
 The report is a collaborative effort of the World Bank, United Nations, Government of Sudan and Sudan
Peoples Liberation Movement (SPLM).


                                                     1
     million. The cattle to human population ratio is said to be one of the highest in Africa. Livestock
     is an important economic asset, in addition to having cultural value. Ownership of cattle is also a
     risk management tool for pastoralists and farmers, the latter continually facing uncertainty caused
     by crop failure.

     6.   Estimate for the fisheries production potential along the River Nile and particularly in the
     Suud region 2 range between 100,000 to 300,000 tons per year on a sustainable basis, which is on
     par with Lake Victoria's current fisheries production. This estimate is based on the combined
     water surface area of over 90,000 sq. km in the River Nile and 16,500 sq. km in the Sudd area. 3 .

2.         Sector Issues

     7.    Livestock.       The potential of the livestock sector is affected by numerous constraints:
     heavy disease burdens, low productivity exacerbated by chronic droughts and insecurity; lack of
     adequate marketing infrastructure; and poorly organized and informed herders and traders. Many
     of these constraints derive from the lack of policies available to govern animal production,
     marketing, trade and veterinary public health, and the absence of reliable data to prioritize sector
     development interventions. The last livestock census was conducted in 1976.

     8.    Animals Prone to Disease. Cattle owners report very high losses (more than 20%) of
     animal. A major factor is believed to be disease. Sudan has provisionally been declared free of
     Rinderpest disease by International Organization for Control of Epizootics (OIE). Serological
     screening is currently underway to provide the basis for confirming Sudan free of this infection.
     However, there are several other diseases which could cause cattle losses and also impose
     considerable public health risks and impediments to trade. Given the spatial distribution of
     livestock across the Southern Sudan, and limited human resource and physical infrastructure,
     tackling the remaining diseases poses a formidable challenge. Hence there is a need for careful
     cost benefit analysis of disease control options and a sound implementation strategy.

     9.     Declining Community Based Animal Health Service Delivery. Under the Operation
     Lifeline Sudan (OLS) Livestock Program of the UN agencies, vaccination campaigns and
     distribution of animal health drugs were carried out by a network of Community Animal Health
     Workers (CAHWs) set up and trained by Non-Government Organizations (NGOs). The cold
     chain system necessary to store drugs and vaccines was financed under the program. The CAHW
     network provided, on a cost recovery basis, services have helped preserve the livestock base of
     Southern Sudan. More than half of the trained CAHWs (around 4000 in total) are reported to be
     still available but less effective because of diminished support. Financial support to the NGOs
     for the CAHWs network has reportedly declined following the signing of the CPA and the OLS
     phase-out.

     10. Competing Demand for Land and Water. Ruminant livestock in Southern Sudan depend
     entirely on grazing to meet their nutritional needs. However, availability of grazing fluctuates
     with season across the agro-ecological transect. Grazing resources are most abundant in the
     wetter parts of the region but higher disease (for example Trypanosomosis) challenges there limit
     livestock presence in those areas. Consequently, livestock are concentrated in drier regions
     where pastoral and agro-pastoral production systems dominate in order to maximize use of
     grazing and water resources. Animals gain weight during the wet season but often suffer
     considerable weight loss during the dry, depending on the harshness and duration of the season.

2
    The Nile river system forms many lakes, lagoon and swamps which is known as the Sudd.
3
    These estimates will have to be authenticated through a formal assessment of fisheries resources.


                                                        2
    It is quite unlikely that alternative production system e.g. planted pastures or intensive grain
    feeding, will emerge in Southern Sudan, even in the long term. Therefore, increasing animal
    production and productivity will depend on improving current production systems such as, better
    range management strategies which in turn will necessitate secured access rights by herders to
    grazing lands and watering points.

    11. Sedentary farming is expanding following the peace agreement, restored security, return of
    IDPs and refugees and the natural increase in human population. With an increase in livestock
    population as well, on a fixed land base, there may be competing demand for land for farming
    and grazing and, water for domestic purposes, irrigation and cattle. These issues need to be
    addressed through better analysis and planning, and designing of appropriate policies and
    regulations to promote sustainable development of both livestock and crop agriculture. Thus a
    better estimate of livestock resources is necessary to formulate appropriate land use policy which
    would help to minimize potential risks of conflicts between pastoralists and farming population.

    12. Limited Market Access. The structure of the livestock market network has the primary
    market at the village level, with secondary at the provincial level, and in selected border posts for
    exports to neighboring countries, such as, Uganda and Kenya. It is reported that the average
    price of cattle in the primary market may be about one-eighth that of the fob price 4 . Access to
    markets is constrained by poor infrastructure as well as services.

          Trekking is, and will remain, an important means to get animals to markets for many more
          years. 5 Conflicts over land and the grazing, and watering resources indicated above could
          be further exacerbated by these treks which require that herders and livestock traders
          traverse set routes to gain access to marketing towns, and set border crossing and trading
          points.
          As trekking to markets takes from several days to weeks, animals are susceptible to weight
          loss and death if proper feed and water, and health services are not available. There are no
          holding grounds for animals to rest and recuperate after long period of trekking before
          being sold.
          The existing town markets are in derelict state. There is limited access to water and animal
          feed, and hygiene standards are very low.
          Herders with little information on market conditions and prices have limited bargaining
          power.
          High incidence of taxation on livestock and lack of transparency are disincentives for the
          sellers of livestock.
          Trade at border posts is also constrained by inadequate inspection, animal health and
          certification facilities and services.
          Limited representation of Southern Sudan livestock trade issues in the regional trade
          bodies, such as Common Market for East and Southern Africa (COMESA), affects
          harmonization of regulations and establishment of appropriate standards for trading live
          and slaughtered animals, and skins.

    13. Issues with Fisheries. The fisheries potential cannot be fully realized due the following
    constraints: (a) inadequate fisheries management measures; (b) lack of policy, strategy and legal

4
  Alan King and E. Mukasa-Mugerwa: Livestock Marketing in Southern Sudan (With Particular Reference
to the Cattle Trade Between Southern Sudan and Uganda) ­ April 2002; Pan African Program for Control of
Epizootics.
5
  The rehabilitation of main roads has just begun. The rehabilitation and construction of secondary road
networks will take several more years.


                                                    3
     framework; (c) inadequate transport and energy infrastructure; (d) lack of extension service; and
     (e) very limited access to markets..

     14. Insufficient Institutional Capacity. Poor staffing and lack of skilled human resources in
     Southern Sudan pose a considerable challenge. According to the human resources survey 6 (April
     2006) the number of livestock experts is comparatively higher than fisheries but both far from
     adequate. According to the survey, there are 157 veterinary and 127 fisheries officers in
     Southern Sudan. Two thirds of these officials have been working in the former garrison towns 7
     with very limited exposure to field reality and modern technologies.

     15. Window of opportunity exist for sustainable development of the livestock and fisheries
     sector. In October 2005, the former SPLM Secretariat for Agriculture and Animal Resources
     (SAAR) and the former Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry and Fisheries of the
     Government of Southern Sudan held a roundtable meeting with key stakeholders including
     representatives of FAO and the World Bank, to discuss the vision for agriculture and other
     natural resources sectors, and identify main investment priorities. The roundtable discussion was
     based on the "New Sudan Food and Agriculture Policy Framework" prepared by the Secretariat
     for Agriculture and Animal Resources (SPLM SAAR) in 2004, the JAM and other reports on
     sector development programs. The vision, as articulated at the meeting, is to transform pastoral,
     fisheries and agricultural activities from subsistence to commercial enterprises that generate
     marketable surplus, and develop domestic and export markets to absorb the surplus. The meeting
     also underlined the need to preserve the vast but fragile natural resource base to allow for
     sustainable development. The meeting concluded that an immediate priority is to build
     institutional capacity in the sector.

     16. In late October 2005, the Ministry of Animal Resources and Fisheries (MARF) and the
     Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) were created and a Minister for each Ministry was
     appointed. In a joint policy statement issued in November 2005, both Ministries endorsed the
     conclusions of the earlier roundtable and reiterated the need for building institutional capacity.

     17. The head of MARF, the Under-Secretary, was appointed in early 2006. In addition, seven
     directorates were formed and each headed by a Director General (DG). The directorates are:
     Planning and Marketing, Research, Extension and Training, Animal Production and Range,
     Veterinary Services, Fisheries, Administration and Finance, and Special Projects. The DGs have
     been formally appointed. The roles and responsibilities of these directorates have not yet been
     fully determined.

3.         Rationale for MDTF Bank Involvement

18. During the war, several organizations such as the European Commission Humanitarian Office
(ECHO), European Commission (EC), FAO, UNICEF and USAID have been involved in the
livestock sector in Southern Sudan. The main focus of their support was animal health, training
and provision of related equipment. Programs were implemented by a number of international and
local NGOs. With the signing of the peace agreement, many of these programs have been phased
out or the scope reduced. While these programs have been individually targeted at both the short
and medium term needs, none had the mandate or capacity, or the resources to support rapid and
integrated development of the livestock and fisheries sector.


6
    The survey was carried out by Computer Feeds Limited and Ecotech consultants for GoSS in April 2006.
7
    These areas were held by the Government of Sudan during the civil war.


                                                      4
19. FAO is preparing the Sudan Productive Capacity Recovery Program (SPCRP) for funding
(estimated Euro 40.0 million over five years) by the EC, of which Euro 10-15 million is expected
to be spent for livestock and fisheries sector. The proposed EC project is expected to help build
human and physical capacities of State Ministries of Agriculture, Animal Resources and Irrigation
(SMAARI) in five States (Lakes, Leich, Northern Bahr el Ghazal, Western Bahr el Ghazal and
Western Equatoria) to deliver improved animal health services and agricultural support, and
increased livestock, fisheries and crop production, income generation and marketing. The SPCRP
is not expected to focus on capacity building at the levels of MARF and the States which would not
be covered. The proposed EC project would not also focus on the development of appropriate
policy framework for the sector. Financial involvement of GoSS is also not envisaged in SPCRP.

20. Land O' Lakes, a private dairy company, in collaboration with a Sudanese NGO, is
implementing few small pilot programs on dairy development around Kapoeta (Eastern Equatoria).
The pilots are based on the model of dairy cooperatives. The program is financed by USAID.

21. The GoSS/MARF/Southern Sudan Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) project would help to
build a policy framework and harmonize management and capacities across the sector. The project
with MDTF involvement would also help build synergy with the proposed SPCRP and the dairy
development initiative, and fill in the gaps where support will not be available from other
programs. Livestock production areas receiving SPCRP support are expected to benefit from the
new commercial outlets and enhanced export facilities financed under the MARF project financed
by GoSS and MDTF. This project is the Government's livestock and fisheries sector development
project where substantial financial support will be provided from the domestic budget. Donor
assistance through the MDTF will only supplement Government's effort to vitalize the sector.




                                                5
B.          PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.          Project Development Objectives and Key Performance Indicators

22. The overall aim is to assist recovery of rural livelihoods based on livestock and fisheries.
The specific objective of this project is to improve the performance of the livestock and fisheries
sectors in five selected States of Southern Sudan through capacity building, improving animal
health, reducing post-harvest losses and improving market infrastructure.

23.       Indicative key performance indicators are provided below.

            Animal disease surveillance and control system established.
            Number of cattle traded in market towns and border points increased by x percent by the
            end of the project.
            Volume of fish that reach main markets increased by x percent by the end of the project.

24. Annex 6 provides an initial Results Framework. A consolidated Results Framework with
baseline data against final indicators will be developed based on surveys and consultation with
stakeholders within six months after grant effectiveness.


2.          Project Components

25. The US$42.0 million Project includes four components. Detailed description of the
components is provided in Annex 2.

26. Component 1: Institutional Development and Capacity Building (US$11.25 million).
This component will aim to:

      ·     help to define the roles and responsibilities of the Government at the National Unity, GoSS
            and States levels, and the private sector, for the development of the livestock and fisheries
            sector, and enact basic legislation and regulations to facilitate these relationships;
      ·     improve the capacities of MARF to formulate policies, design appropriate legal
            instruments and set priorities;
      ·     improve the capacity of MARF and the five State Directorate of Animal Resources and
            Fisheries (SDARF) under the project to develop implementation plans and budgets, and
            coordinate service delivery among partners for accelerated and sustainable development of
            the sector;
      ·     build technical and managerial skills, at senior levels of MARF and the five SDARFs;
      ·     develop MARF's monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capacity and establish its M&E
            system to measure the performance of the sector (including assessment of the development
            impact);
      ·     assist MARF to carry out critical studies to help fill the information and data gaps to enable
            prioritization of investment decisions;
      ·     improve the working conditions for MARF and five SDARFs through building and
            refurbishing offices; and
      ·     improve capacity for sustainable management of natural resources.




                                                      6
27. The project will finance technical assistance for institutional and organizational development,
training, construction of MARF headquarter office and rehabilitation of five SDARF offices (where
necessary), office equipment, and vehicles, studies and recurrent costs. Technical Assistance will
help MARF to formulate policies, design appropriate legal instruments, set priorities, and develop
implementation plans and budgets, and coordinate service delivery among partners as well as to
provide general project implementation support. External support will be specifically provided in
the areas of overall project management and coordination, financial management and procurement.
Technical assistance services for capacity building and project implementation support,
construction of MARF head office and urgent rehabilitation of five SDARF offices, office
equipment, vehicles for MARF, studies and operating cost and SDARF will be financed in the first
year.

28. Component 2: Improvement of Service Delivery for Animal Health (US$17.0 million).
This component will focus on the control of diseases which not only affect the production and
productivity of livestock, but also limit marketability of the animals in local and regional markets.
In order to ensure that the public sector does not crowd out private providers of veterinary services
in the long-run, this component will build on, and expand, the community based service delivery
system which has been operating in Southern Sudan. The component will therefore help to
strengthen the capacity of the CAHW and Veterinary Pharmacists (VP) networks. Experienced
NGOs will be contracted to build capacity of, and supervise, the CAHW and VP networks. The
component will also train field veterinarians and veterinary technicians to supervise animal health
service delivery. The NGOs would specifically focus on the issues of selection of community
workers, incentives, and developing a system of replenishment of stock

29. The project will finance the services of the NGOs and construction of one central (Juba) and
two regional laboratories (Wau and Malakal), expansion of the Marial Lou Livestock Training
Center, regional experts to provide training of trainers, contingency drugs and cold chains, cost of
mobile clinics and requisite laboratory and field diagnostic equipment and supplies. The NGOs
services will be contracted at the beginning of first year. In addition construction and equipping of
the laboratories will also be undertaken in the first phase of the project.

30. Component 3: Livestock Marketing Support (US$8.4 million). This component will be
implemented in the second phase of the project. The focus of the component will be on the
development of market facilities and peri-urban dairy development. Access to markets will be
improved through monitoring and analyzing the price trends in major markets, and dissemination
of price information through print and other appropriate media; training of livestock traders and
herders in auction system, grading and certification, and legal procedures for export; access to
veterinary services in the holding grounds, including inspection and certification services; and meat
inspectors for quality control. Physical facilities for markets, such as (i) the development of five
holding and auction yards/grounds in marketing towns and border trading points with Uganda,
Kenya and possibly Ethiopia; (ii) demarcation of trading routes and provide water supply services
along these routes; and (iii) five sanitary slaughtering facilities in selected towns are included in the
project. The component will develop arrangements for the operation and maintenance of the
physical facilities before the physical construction begins.

31. The project will finance the cost of price monitoring and dissemination, training, services at
the market points, and the physical facilities. Project investments in the physical facilities will be
based on the findings of the studies to be commissioned in the first year and then construction of
recommended infrastructure will start in the second phase of the project. Physical construction of




                                                   7
slaughter houses will be financed based on the findings of the study and appropriate arrangement of
public-private partnership has been identified and agreed with potential partners.

32. Under this component a study will be carried out in the first year to assess the potential of
peri-urban dairy activities in Southern Sudan and identify suitable entry points to promote
sustainable dairy development. Based on the results of the feasibility study, an experienced NGO
or private sector with experience in dairy development in Southern Sudan and/or countries in the
region will be contracted to organize and train milk producers, and carry out dairy production
activities. The project will finance the cost of a suitable organization to implement this component.

33. Component 4: Development of Fish Production and Marketing (US$5.35 million). This
component will help develop an effective service delivery system for the development of fisheries
resources, minimize post-harvest losses, improve access to markets, and build capacity of field
officials. (Capacity building of senior officials of MARF and SDARF will be financed under
Component 1.) The project will finance the expansion of the training facility at Padak, and
regional experts to provide training of trainers in Southern Sudan, fishers' training, demonstration
activities, and development of capacity for extension service. Based on technical and financial
assessment of the market potential for fish and interest of the communities, fish landing and other
facilities will be supported under the project with community participation from the second phase
of the project.

3.      Project Location

34. The project will be implemented in Upper Nile, Unity, Jonglei, East and Central Equatoria
states in Southern Sudan and in Marial Lou training center. The five States and Marial Lou are not
covered under the proposed SPCRP. The selection was also based on the following considerations:

            about half of the livestock population is concentrated in these states;
            key borders points for Southern Sudan (with Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia and trade routes
            to North Sudan) are located in these states;
            more than half of the IDPs in Southern Sudan are in these states; and
            ease of supervision by MARF.


4.      Cost of the Project

35. The total proposed project cost over five years is US$ 42.0 million, of which the Government
would finance US$ 22.0 million and the MDTF would finance US$ 20.0 million.

36. The project will be implemented in two phases. Phase I will be the first two years while the
remaining three years will be in Phase 2. The first phase of the project will focus on capacity
building and service delivery while the second phase will concentrate on longer term institutional
development and continue with service delivery and marketing activities. Program cost by phase
and source of financing is shown in the table below:




                                                  8
                                   Program Cost and Sources of Financing
                             MDTF            GoSS                   Total
            Phase I          7.67            8.89                   16.56
            Phase 2          12.33           13.11                  25.44
            Total            20.00           22.00                  42.00

37.   The annual cost of the project is shown in the following table.

      Components
                            Year 1    Year 2      Year 3       Year 4   Year 5       Total
(i) Institutional            3.06      2.42           2.07      1.95     1.75        11.25
Development and
Capacity Building
(ii) Improvement of          2.0        5.2            5.1      3.25     1.45         17.0
Service Delivery for
Animal Health
(iii) Livestock Marketing    0.31      1.17           3.46      2.41     1.05         8.4
Support
(iv) Development of Fish     0.5        1.9            1.2      1.15     0.6          5.35
Production and
Marketing
                   Total     5.87      10.69          11.83     8.76     4.85         42.0

38. The MDTF is expected to make a commitment for the first phase (2006-2008) amount, with
subsequent commitments reflected by addendum to the Grant Agreement. MARF will prepare the
2007 budget estimates which would include, among other activities of the Ministry, the program
outlined in this document and will present to MOFEP for inclusion in the Government's budget for
next year.




                                                  9
C.      IMPLEMENTATION
1.      Project Implementation Period

39. The project is expected to become effective from November 2006 and implemented over five
years.

2.      Partnership Arrangements

40. The implementation arrangement is expected to address the issue of severe capacity
limitations, the need for accelerated implementation, strengthen partnerships among various
government ministries and agencies, funding partners and implementation partners. Project
implementation would be jointly shared by GoSS, MARF, selected Sates, consulting firms (policy,
institutional development and project implementation support), regional technical organizations
(for capacity building and technical support), NGOs (organizing and supervising the service
delivery functions through community based animal health workers and veterinary pharmacists,
and providing livelihood support services to rural vulnerable groups), community based
organizations, private sector, and possibly UN organizations for specific activities. The
Government will establish a Livestock and Fisheries Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee
(LFICC) to provide strategic guidance for the coordinated development of the sector. The LFICC
will comprise of representatives from the Ministries of Finance and Economic Planning (MoFEP),
Animal Resources and Fisheries, Agriculture and Forestry, Rural Development, Water and
Irrigation, and Transport and Roads. The LFICC will be co-chaired by the Minister of MARF and
the Minister of Agriculture and Forests.

41. In the five States where the project activities will be undertaken, State Project Steering
Committees (SPSC) will be established. These committees will be chaired by the State Minister of
Agriculture, Animal Resources and Irrigation and comprise the head of the Directorates of Animal
Resources and Fisheries, implementation partner organizations, county officials and the MARF
Coordinator. The functions of the SPSC will be to review the status of implementation at the State
and county levels. MARF will appoint a Coordinator at the State level to supervise the activities
related to animal resources and fisheries.

3.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

42. MARF will be the recipient of the grant. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) comprising the
MARF Under-Secretary and the seven Director Generals will be established. The PSC will be
responsible for the overall execution of this project including being accountable for the
achievement of the project's development objectives. The Office of the Under-Secretary will
coordinate the activities of MARF and the States, line institutions and MARF, and other Ministries
and MARF. Implementation responsibility of the different components of the project will be with
the relevant technical Directorates at the MARF level. The Directorate of the Special Projects
(DSP) will coordinate with the various directorates of MARF. To accelerate strengthening of the
capacity of the Ministry and ensure timely implementation of the project activities, MARF will
recruit two teams of competent technical experts. These teams will work within the organizational
structure of the Ministry. The Capacity Building and Implementation Support Team (CBIST) will
be accountable to the DSP who will coordinate with different directorates regarding the team's
activities. The Technical Support Team (TST) will provide technical support in the broad areas of
animal health, marketing, dairy development, research and extension, and fisheries development.


                                                10
The individual technical consultants will be deputed to the different Directorates but the overall
coordination of the consultants' activities will be responsibility of the Team Leader of TST who
will be accountable to the DG Planning. The DSP along with DG Planning will ensure
coordination between the two teams.

43. MARF will contract competent organizations and NGOs to carry specific project activities.
A significant part of the management training will be in-house and carried out by the CBIST.
Some specialized management training identified by MARF with the CBIST will be imparted by
regional institutions. Technical training at the MARF and State levels will be outsourced to
reputable institutions. Delivery of animal health services will be implemented through contracting
experienced NGOs (many of which will be local) by MARF. The activities will include
consultation with communities on the selection of the community based animal health workers and
veterinary technicians and pharmacists; training of these workers; and monitoring the service
delivery activities. MARF will also contract NGOs or private sector organizations with excellent
track record in the development of community based dairy development. Service delivery for the
fisheries aspects will be carried out in a manner similar to the relatively successful CAHW network
organized by NGOs.

4.       Procurement Arrangements

44. The JAM assessed procurement capacity in GoSS as very limited. In addition to the lack of
an official institutional framework, formal procedures, or existing capacity for public procurement,
a number of other constraints that would affect procurement include: (a) severe lack of
communications (post, telecommunication services, etc; (b) lack of physical infrastructure; (c)
limited media 8 (e.g. to advertise); (d) lack of local suppliers in the private sector; and (e)
supporting regulatory environment (e.g. customs, banking). As these constraints will affect
capacity of the various Ministries in the early period of reconstruction and development, JAM
recommended (as an interim measure) centrally managed procurement. As soon as a more
comprehensive procurement system is put in place and capacity of the government entities is built,
the centralized arrangement will be phased out and procurement responsibility will be transferred
to the line Ministries and other decentralized arms of the government. Currently MoFEP has two
Procurement advisors to assist the various Ministries with the procurement activities.

45. A short- term Procurement Advisor financed by USAID has been recruited by MARF. The
Advisor will help MARF to start procurement actions necessary to jump-start project
implementation soon after grant approval. These activities will include: developing Terms of
Reference (TOR) for the TA teams, preparing bidding documents for MARF office, consultant
services, recruitment of NGOs for livelihood support activities, and construction of office building.
MARF will be responsible for defining technical requirements and specifications, including
preparation of Procurement Plans, terms of reference for consulting assignment and supervision of
contracts. The project will also support a Procurement Specialist in the CBIST who will build on
the work of the USAID Advisor and help to establish a Procurement Unit and the necessary
procurement capacity in MARF. It is expected that by the end of the second year of the project,
MARF will be able to receive the necessary accreditation from GoSS for carrying out procurement
responsibilities. In the meantime, all the procurement activities will be cleared with MoFEP.

46. Procurement of goods and civil works would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 2004). Procurement of
consultant services (including NGOs) would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank
8
    Currently, there is one newspaper in Juba with very limited circulation.


                                                        11
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants (May 2004). The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents (SBD) will be used for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB) contracts and
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) contracts with appropriate modifications. Bank's Standard
Request for Proposals RFP) will be used for selecting consultants on the basis of Quality and Cost
Based Selection (QCBS). In the case of small contracts for goods and works, and contracts in
community participation, simplified documents will be used. For small consulting assignments,
simpler methods than QCBS will be used. Overall procurement arrangements will be consistent
with the recently approved GoSS Procurement Regulations which provide for institutional
arrangements for decision making, approval, and processing of contracts, including payments.

47. The overall procurement risk is HIGH. It is expected that the risk will be addressed with the
presence of a Procurement Specialist consultant in MARF to assist the procurement staff in the
Ministry, the availability of a Procurement Agent to support project procurement and close
supervision by the Bank.

5.    Financial Management Arrangements

48. The GoSS was officially created in October 2005. According to the early 2005 assessment of
the public financial management system by the JAM, the entire public financial management
system needed to be to be built from scratch. However, since that assessment, significant
developments have taken place providing an embryonic capacity for financial management in
GoSS. In summary:

      KPMG has been recruited as the Financial Management (FM) Agent to disburse funds to
      meet urgent expenditures;
      an International Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) has been established
      using a commonly shared platform across portfolio i.e. Free- balance software and the
      system is operational;
      availability of equipment and TA in FM and Procurement provides a basis for developing
      and strengthening the FM functions; and
      availability of oil revenues should provide GoSS with substantial resources, if they are used
      in an economically efficient, transparent and accountable manner, give a reliable and
      dependable basis for sustained improvement.

49. Despite these developments, the overall level of risk is considered High because of the
weak institutional and governance structures, lack of prior Bank experience of the MARF, a
virtually non-existent banking system, and low financial management capacity. Consequently, the
following arrangements, comparable to fiduciary controls established in other post-conflict
environments are envisaged:

      MoFEP has contracted or is in the process of contracting a number of agents to carry out the
      basic functions of financial management and accounting for all GoSS/MDTF programs.
      Price Waterhouse and Coopers (PWC) is contracted as the Monitoring Agent (MA). KPMG
      has been contracted as the Project Accounting Agent (PAA) to ensure proper accounting and
      reporting of transactions in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS).
      Details are provided in Annex 8. A Procurement Agent (PA) to ensure that procurement is
      conducted in a transparent and accountable manner, and as per MDTF requirements and an
      External Audit Agent (EAA) to provide independent assessment of the reliability of the
      financial statements produced for the project based on international standards, are yet to be
      recruited.



                                                12
      A Project Disbursement Unit (PDU) will be established in the treasury of the MoFEP and
      staffed by the PAA, which will provide common financial services for all GoSS/MDTF
      financed projects, use the same IFMIS platform as is being implemented by the treasury
      (namely Freebalance), and offer clearly defined service standards to implementing agencies.
      These service standards will be incorporated into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
      between the PDU and individual implementing agencies.

50. The project provides for the appointment of a Financial Management Specialist consultant by
MARF within six months of grant effectiveness.

51. A simplified flow of fund arrangement is envisaged for this project. The GoSS and MDTF
resources will be pooled. There will be two project accounts for this project instead of the standard
Special Account. One will be US Dollar Project Accounts in a reputed and stable commercial bank
in Nairobi; a second Project Account in local currency will be located in a reputed and stable
commercial bank in Juba. Both the MDTF and GoSS contributions for the project will be disbursed
directly into the US$ Account, thereby pooling the funds. The size of the initial deposits of funds
into these accounts will be determined on the basis of an estimate of the anticipated expenditures
for a period of four months. If necessary this advance could be increased on the basis of an estimate
of the anticipated expenditures for a period of six months, on the basis of assessment by the World
Bank. Replenishments to the US $ Project Account with Grant Proceeds from the MDTF will be
on basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE) to be prepared and submitted to IDA by the PAA
through GoSS. The PAA/GoSS will be responsible for managing these accounts. For large
payments, the PAA through the GoSS could request IDA for direct payments to contractors from
the MDTF/GoSS accounts. The accounting for these expenditures would need to be reflected in
the withdrawal applications submitted by PAA through the GoSS. Based on requirement, funds
will be transferred from the US$ Account to the Project Account in Juba to pay for eligible
expenditures in local currency. This account will also be managed by PAA/GoSS. In addition the
MARF will maintain an Imprest Bank Account in a commercial bank in Juba. This account will be
used to pay for smaller expenditures for program activities that will be carried out directly by
MARF staff. The size of the Imprest facility is yet to be determined.

52. Monthly, quarterly and annual reports will be prepared by MARF for the purpose of
monitoring project implementation. The reports will be submitted to the MA, the PSC members,
MoFEP and the World Bank. Detailed reporting procedures and the format, contents and
frequency of reports will be fully documented in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM).

53. MDTF resources for the Project will be accounted on a cash basis. This will be supplemented
with appropriate records and procedures to track commitments and to safeguard assets.
Accounting records will be maintained in US$ for consistency and stability. At present, the
internal audit function is not established. However, in the interim, the PAA will perform the
internal audit functions for the project, albeit the apparent conflict of interest. The project's
financial statements will be audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing by an
independent auditor with qualifications and experience satisfactory to GoSS/MDTF and IDA. The
audited annual financial statements for the MDTF will be submitted to the Bank within six months
following the closure of the financial year.

54.   Detailed financial management arrangements are presented in Annex 8.




                                                 13
6.      Monitoring and Reporting

55. The Directorate of Planning will be responsible for monitoring and reporting on performance.
Close collaboration will be established between the DSP and Planning for monitoring and reporting
purposes. Technical support to develop a monitoring and evaluation system within MARF will be
provided through the CBIST (Component 1) which will also ensure measurement of performance
of entities which will be contracted to support the service delivery, technical training and the
livelihood activities. Directorate of Planning will work with the various Directorates with
assistance from CBIST to develop simple and measurable monitoring indicators on process,
outputs and outcomes in the first year of project implementation. These indicators will be
developed in conjunction with the Implementation Plans that will be prepared for each component
by the Directorates with support from the TA teams. The Directorate of Planning and SPD will
identify data sources and responsibility for data collection and reporting. MARF will provide six-
monthly and annual progress reports for submission to GoSS and the World Bank. At the end of
Phase 1 of the project, a comprehensive report linking financial and procurement inputs with
results, including indicators listed above, will be prepared by MARF. As capacities for monitoring
and evaluation increase and the database is improved, other more outcome-oriented indicators
could be identified for subsequent years. A technical audit will be carried yearly by an independent
consulting firm (financed from the project). The scope of this audit will include technical and
fiduciary processes and their adherence to the project guidelines.

7.      Sustainability and Critical risks

56. The sustainability of this project depends on the development of a policy and regulatory
framework which enables private sector participation, removal of structural barriers to market,
efficient use of the natural resources and development of strong human resources capacity for the
sector. The project aims to address these concerns, but a number of critical risks remain:

57. Timely Availability of Good Technical Assistance. Southern Sudan is being built from
scratch. The demand for expertise from various Ministries for some of the key common areas,
such as, project management, procurement, financial management, M&E, is very high. Capable
expertise is not available in the country. Living and working conditions are relatively harsh. High
level of demand may put pressure on the external sources, particularly from countries and
organizations whose skilled people have experience working and living in difficult conditions.
Under these circumstances, it may be difficult to find good international organizations to work in
that area. Regional organizations may be better suited to understand and adapt to the conditions of
Southern Sudan and thereby develop good working relationship with the people. There are not
many regional organizations with good capacity to provide the needed support. The challenge will
be to identify organizations suitable to work in this environment and MARF has started the
procurement process to be ahead of the queue.

58. Management of Expectations. After the end of war and consequently a long period of
hardship, the people of Southern Sudan expect quick results from the development interventions.
This will not be easy in the face of formidable challenges already mentioned. The government will
have to manage such high expectations. Since development of policies, strategies and appropriate
systems to deliver services, will take some time and results will not be visible in the initial years,
the project aims at expanding and upgrading the existing community based animal health service



                                                 14
delivery and providing livelihood support to vulnerable groups in the first phase which could
demonstrate some results quickly.

59. Effective coordination among Ministries and entities at the State and county levels will be
critical. The relevant Ministries will have to work very closely to develop appropriate policies
with regard to land, water, public health, taxation, transport and communications and agriculture
for livestock and fisheries development. Investment plans should also be coordinated to achieve
efficiency. Coordination among sector ministries and agencies is always a challenge in any
country. The challenge becomes more formidable when procurement and financial management
aspects of project implementation will have to be coordinated with mechanisms developed by
GoSS. In addition, MARF will also have to coordinate with the GoSS on the development of its
organizational structure to ensure consistency with the overall civil service system which will be
developed for Southern Sudan. Coordination will also be needed between MARF and the external
partners. The proposed LFICC would be an appropriate forum to discuss cross-cutting issues and
ensure harmonization of policies and programs. Availability of technical assistance is expected to
help MARF with the coordination efforts.

60. Availability of Fund. The need for funds to develop the sector to its full potential over the
medium to long term, though not yet known, is expected to be considerable. Internal as well as
external sources of funds will need to be tapped. Such funds should also be available on a timely
basis to allow for completion of the development activities, as well as for salaries and overheads,
and annual operation and maintenance costs for physical facilities. MARF needs to prepare a
medium term financing plan for the sector and reach agreement with GoSS on financial flows.
Based on revenue projections and funding gaps, GoSS should seek assurance from MDTF for
cofinancing support.

8.      Social Issues

61. The project has been designed based in consultation with government officials, UN agencies,
bilateral and multilateral development agencies, specialised NGOs, and other livestock and
fisheries specialists. A roundtable discussion was held in June 2006 to discuss the project design
and implementation mechanisms. Issues of access to services as well as risks and sustainability
were also discussed. The project focuses on the rural livelihood support for the vulnerable groups,
such as IDP, returning populations, female headed households, demobilized soldiers. Issues related
to Bank's social safeguards have been discussed and mitigation measures identified. OP/BP 4.12
related to Involuntary Displacement has been triggered because of the construction of the office
space, training centers, laboratories and the demarcation of restocking routes may entail
involuntary land and site acquisition. The project will thus adopt the MDTF-wide Resettlement
Policy Framework (RFP) for application in such cases (see Section 8 below).

8.      Environmental Issues

62. The components of the proposed project likely to generate any environmental impacts
include: clean water supply, waste disposal in the slaughter houses, disposal of veterinary
consumables (including vaccines, drugs, syringes), support to public infrastructure (renovation of
MARF and State office buildings, laboratories, research centers, training centers, holding grounds,
quarantine points) and support to livestock production infrastructure (rehabilitation of water points
and stock routes). Based upon available information, the impacts are likely to be minimal, local in


                                                 15
extent and readily assessed, mitigated and managed. Accordingly, the project is allocated a B
impact category.

63. The project will adopt the safeguards instruments (Environment and Social Management
Framework ESMF, Resettlement Policy Framework RPF, Medical and Veterinary Waste
Management Plan MVWMP) being prepared for use by all MDTF-financed operations in Southern
Sudan. MARF will be responsible for the application of these safeguards instruments through an
appointed Safeguards Officer. Since it has virtually no safeguards implementation capacity,
MARF will participate in the MDTF Safeguards Management Committee (SMC), coordinated by
the Ministry of Environment, Wildlife Conservation and Tourism (MOEWCT) and comprised of
Safeguards Officers from each ministry benefiting from the MDTF. The MOEWCT will not have
subproject approval authority. However, each Safeguards Officer will have the authority to
determine, in consultation with the coordinator, whether a site is free of safeguards issues and
whether additional mitigation measures are needed. The Committee will be supported by a
regionally recruited advisor specialized in World Bank safeguards over the project period. The
advisor will monitor the implementation of the safeguards procedures, provide training and advice
to the SMC as needed, and will report to the benefiting ministries and to the MTDF Administrator.
This arrangement will support not only continuous performance improvement for the Safeguards
Officers and implementation of the Bank safeguards instruments, but also policy, regulatory and
institutional strengthening for the MOEWCT to support environmentally sustainable growth and
resource management in Southern Sudan.

64. Costs for implementing the safeguards aspects of the project are estimated at US$7,000 for
equipment and supplies for the Safeguards Officer; US$10,000 for preparation of the MVWMP
(shared with the MDTF Health Project); US$25,000 to support the Safeguards Advisor/Monitor
and training (shared with other MDTF projects); and US$100,000 for compensation for involuntary
land acquisition. Total: US$142,000.




                                                16
                                        Annex 1: Sector Context
              Southern Sudan: Livestock and Fisheries Development Project


Overview

1.       The economy of Southern Sudan is dominated by the traditional subsistence agricultural
sector (crop production and animal husbandry). There is no reliable data on agriculture (including
livestock and fisheries). About two thirds of the population of Southern Sudan is reportedly
directly linked to the livestock and fisheries sector.


Southern Sudan: Development Challenges ­ Excerpts from the 2003 Country Economic Memorandum
                                      of the World Bank

"The development of agriculture presents a special challenge in Southern Sudan because of the civil war and
widespread food insecurity. Nevertheless, agriculture still dominates the minimal economic activity. The
potential for growth is large; less than 2 percent of the areas suitable for agriculture were estimated to be
under cultivation even before the civil war. Apart from annual crops, tree crops and livestock, as well as
lumber are other significant economic activities in southern Sudan. It is not possible to measure the aggregate
growth of southern agriculture, but there can be little doubt that over the last two decades it has been below
the rate of population growth because of the devastating impact of almost continual civil war. Crops are
grown on a subsistence basis, but livestock production has been above subsistence in some areas, with
animals exported to neighboring countries such as Kenya and Uganda. A Bank report in 1973 noted that
southern Sudan has good agricultural potential and it is possible to develop a north-south complementary
production relationship which could have a favorable impact on Sudan's balance of payments. The report
went on to point out two major constraints to development of the agricultural sector in the south, namely,
manpower and finance. Thirty years later the situation is still the same. Given the absence of data for
southern Sudan on trends in agricultural and livestock production, the following sections on agricultural
growth in the report will cover only northern Sudan." (Country Economic Memorandum, June 2003)

2.      Based on climate, soil type, vegetation, general characteristics of the local economy and
other factors, Southern Sudan can be divided into three main environmental and agro-ecological
zones:

    ·    The Central zone which covers the northern part of Upper Nile State has a mean
         annual rainfall of between 400 and 800 mm. falling between the months of June
         and October; the soils are regarded as generally fertile.
    ·    The Flood zone has comparatively heavy rainfall (750 and 1000 mm between the months
         of April and October); it covers the southern part of Upper Nile State and most of Jonglei
         State, large parts of Lakes and Unity States and the northern most part of Central
         Equatoria. It is generally flat with poor drainage, susceptible to flooding and water-logging
         and has heavy impermeable soils.
    ·    The Equatorial zone extends over most of the others parts of Southern Sudan. The
         mean annual rainfall is between 900 and 2,200 mm falling between the months of
         March and November. The soils are generally described as acidic and the nutrient
         status is poor in some areas, and deep and loamy in the most parts.

3.      Although no recent census was carried out to confirm the figures, the ruminant livestock
population of Southern Sudan is reported to be quite large. It was estimated that the cattle


                                                     17
population is between 6 to 10 million while sheep and goats combined are about 10 million, and
are roughly equally represented. Cattle holdings in Southern Sudan vary from smaller herds of 30
animals or less in the higher rainfall counties to herds of 500 or more in the drier pastoral areas.
Ownership and management arrangements are usually complex. Some herds are individually
owned while others by extended family or clans, or even crop farmers who entrust their animals to
herders for rearing in commodity barter arrangements. Eastern Equatoria (Kapoeta), Jonglei (Phou,
Bieh, Latjor), Upper Nile (Fashoda), North Bahr El Gazal (Gogrial, Twic, Aweil) and Lakes
(Rumbek and Yirol) count among the states which have large animal population.

4.       The communities in Upper Nile, most of Bahr el Ghazal, Eastern and Part of Central
Equatoria are predominantly pastoralists, although other products of their environment play an
important part in their livelihood. In addition to the use of the products of cattle and to a limited
extent sheep and goats (milk, butter, meat, hides and leather), the people in these areas practice
some limited crop production. Livestock follow a seasonal pattern of transhumance along
traditional stock routes. Cattle camps are established at the beginning of the dry season, and on the
higher lands at the beginning of the wet season.

5.      For farming communities, after subsistence crop production (the main crops include
sorghum, maize, groundnuts and sesame), livestock are generally the most significant contributor
to household food baskets, both in terms of milk and meat and exchange for grain. Cattle and small
stock are kept in the vicinity of the village and grazing areas designated as pasture land by the
community.

6.       The food value of cattle, particularly in the form of meat, increases in years of poor crops
and reaches a climax in years of famine (that can be war-induced), and are either consumed directly
or bartered for grains, or sold for cash to buy grain. The importance also varies according to time of
the year since with little surplus, there are often periods when grain is in short supply even though
the crops have been reasonably successful.

7.       The beginning of a cash economy is emerging as a result of the peace and consequent
increased security, migration and urbanization. The effects of closer contact with the outside world,
establishment of a civil administration are also contributing factors. In spite of the changing
contexts, off-take for sales and other purposes remain comparatively low. While the main factors
contributing to this situation are listed below, these are described later in this annex:

        to hedge against risks (for example, disease, threat of losses thorough raiding and conflict,
        droughts), cattle owners tend to keep larger herds than the resource base can effectively
        support, hence animal productivity is low;
        cattle are used as insurance against seasonal shortages in other types of food and bad
        harvest;
        generally lack of incentives, i.e. though the effects of a cash economy are beginning to be
        felt, the absence of enterprising and organized trade has created virtually no demand for
        imported trade goods; and
        herds of cattle are not owned individually, i.e. a man's individual rights in his cattle are
        limited by the rights of his kinsmen.

8.       Several changes are taking place in the rural economy. Increasingly pastoralists are
engaging in farming - becoming agro-pastoralists -, while traditional arable farming communities
are also bringing more areas under cultivation. As agriculture farming gain importance, these
households may be able to meet their basic needs without resorting to selling livestock. Many of
the returnees are engaging in livestock production. The latter group has limited knowledge of


                                                 18
cattle and needs special attention in the elaboration of training needs under the project. If rural
institutions and infrastructure improve, and social services and market access are provided,
integration between crops and livestock will increase, livestock will become more integrated into
the cash economy and rearing of livestock for commercial purposes will assume greater
importance.

9.      The potential of fisheries development in southern Sudan is substantial and is core to the
livelihoods of a large share of the population especially along the River Nile and particularly in the
Sudd area which is estimated to have a production potential of 100,000 to 300,000 metric tones per
year. This is based on the combined water surface area of over 100,000 km in the River Nile
(90,000km2) and the Sudd area (16,500km2). Various estimates of the potential fish production
have been made in the last two decades. Fisheries statistical data collection has been non-existent
for many years and there is no evidence that an assessment of the stock of fisheries resources has
ever been carried out in recent years in Southern Sudan. Aquaculture development is reported to
have vast potential in Central, Eastern and Western Equatoria states, Northern and Western Bahar
Gazal states, and Warrap states. In order to reap maximum benefits, the integrated aquaculture
approach will be encouraged in states which also have the potential for livestock farming. The by-
products of the livestock industry will be used to enhance aquaculture production.

11. Post harvest losses in fish are quite high due to lack of storage facilities. Fresh fish landed
must be disposed off immediately. If it cannot be disposed off, it has to be sun dried or smoked.
Inadequate transportation infrastructure is a deterrent to increased fish production but the demand
for fish (particularly fresh fish) is reported to be very high.

Constraints

12. Animal health: Farmers report very high animal mortality rates that are mostly due to
disease. Diseases such as Rinderpest, Foot and Mouth (FMD), East Coast Fever, Contagious
Bovine Pleuro Pneumonia (CBPP), among others, have severely hindered bovine production and
trade in Southern Sudan and with neighboring countries, while others such as Tuberculoses (TB)
and Brucellosis pose considerable public health challenges as well. Though monogastrics are not
the focus of this project, the Avian Flu outbreak declared in Sudan in March 2006 poses an
additional threat to animal and human health in Southern Sudan

13.      Under the UNICEF supported OLS Livestock Program, vaccination campaigns and
distribution of animal health drugs were carried out by a network of CAHWs set up and trained by
NGOs. The cold chain system necessary to store drugs and vaccines in remote areas was financed
by this program for which FAO eventually assumed responsibility. Standards for CAHW training,
as well as a list of authorized drugs constituted the main guidelines for the OLS Livestock
Program. In the absence of a structured governance system, the CAHW network provided, on a
cost recovery basis, services that have helped preserve the livestock base of Southern Sudan. It is
estimated that, since 1993, around 4000 CAHWs have been trained in majority of the 90 counties
in Southern Sudan. According to NGO sources, about half of the trained CAHWs, 20 AHAs and
SPs are still active, particularly in the 40 counties which are supported by NGOs. Overall, the
system is crumbling mainly because of declining external financing and lack of any policy support.
The legal recognition of CAHWs and VPs by GoSS and establishing a clear demarcation between
public and private sector roles in the area of animal health services would strongly support the
sustainable development of the community based animal health service system in Southern Sudan.




                                                 19
                       Community Animal Health Workers in Southern Sudan

  Community Animal Health Workers (CAHWs) are identified by the community based on their knowledge of
  livestock production and health-related issues. They are trained by NGO staff for about two weeks on basic
  animal health service delivery (diagnostic, vaccinations and other treatments, surveillance, reporting etc.).
  Stock owners pay a fee for the services delivered by the CAHWs.
  CAHWs are supervised by Animal Health Auxiliaries (AHAs). There is on average one AHA for 10
  CAHWs. However, with increased security and access following the peace agreement, it is expected that
  AHAs may be able to supervise a larger number of CAHWs.
  AHAs are supervised by Stock Persons (SPs). AHAs and SPs can also directly deliver services to livestock
  owners. AHAs and SPs undergo 2 and 5 months training courses, respectively. Most courses are delivered
  by NGO staff and trainers at the Marial Lou Livestock Training Center (Tonj county). NGO staff, who are
  mostly veterinarians, supervise the work of SPs and AHAs and ensure timely and satisfactory reporting.
  As mentioned, CAHWs operate on a cost-recovery basis. Drugs procured by NGOs and delivered by
  CAHWs are charged to livestock owners at 65 percent above the purchase price. CAHWs retain 30 percent
  as remuneration for their work, AHAs and SPs obtain 7 and 3 percent, respectively (notwithstanding fees
  they get when they directly provide services to herders). The remaining margin is kept in the revolving fund
  to finance partly drug purchases and NGO's overhead and management costs.
  In some states, veterinary pharmacists have received support from NGOs to strengthen existing pharmacies
  or set up new ones. The support consists mainly in `one-off' drug supplies combined with matching grants.
  Training of veterinary pharmacists and supervision of their activities is the responsibility of NGOs.
  The following factors threatening the financial sustainability of the CAHW network are:
  o Many CAHWs are leaving the network as the fees they receive for their service is not sufficient to make
        a living. Livestock owners prefer traditional methods of healing and not keen to pay for vaccines and
        drugs.
  o AHAs and SPs, literate individuals who benefit from long-term and therefore `marketable' training, are
        offered more lucrative professional opportunities. As a result, NGOs recruit some of the SPs and/or are
        paying fees to AHAs and SPs for specific reporting and monitoring tasks to supplement and stabilize
        their revenues.
  o Most donor grants allocated to NGOs are six months to one year. This short term assistance causes
        disruptions (in supervision, drug provision...) that do not favor the development of a sustainable
        community animal health service system. In addition, `emergency' donors (ECHO, OFDA) have
        reduced their funding to NGOs since the signature of the CPA and development assistance has not yet
        made up for dwindling short-term support.
  It is estimated that, since 1993, around 4000 CAHWs have been trained in a majority of the 90 counties of
  Southern Sudan. According to NGO counterparts, around 2000 CAHWs and 200 AHAs and SPs are still
  active, especially in the 40 counties that currently receive NGO support.


14.     Another notable intervention is the Pan-African Program for the Control of Epizootics
(PACE) which aims to eradicate Rinderpest. The PACE has been very successful at controlling the
disease and Sudan has obtained an OIE Provisional Disease Free Status. Serological screening is
currently underway to provide the basis for confirming Sudan free of infection. (The Free Status
declaration is expected to be granted in 2008).

15.      Control of zoonotic diseases is regarded as an international public good and the Government
of Sudan is obligated to contribute to this within the global governance mechanism overseen by the
OIE. Public expenditure by the National Unity Government of Sudan and the GoSS to meet these
obligations is required for the eradication or control of any zoonotic disease identified in Sudan. The
project will assist MARF and partners, at the level of the Sudan GNU, GoSS and States, to define
their respective roles and responsibilities for the development of the livestock sector, and enact basic
legislation and regulations to facilitate these relationships, including the role of the private sector.
However, given the wide distribution of livestock across the Southern States, and limited human
resource and physical infrastructure, tackling the remaining diseases is a formidable challenge for the


                                                      20
GoSS, and the MARF in particular. Thus a disease control strategy, which includes prioritization of
the diseases, needs to be developed after technical and economic feasibility (cost benefit analysis).

17.        Animal nutrition: Ruminant livestock in Southern Sudan depend entirely on grazing to
meet their nutritional needs. However, availability of grazing fluctuates with season across the agro-
ecological transect. Grazing resources are most abundant in the wetter parts of the region, but there
trymanosomiasis prohibits production apart from small populations of low performing
trypanotolerant breeds. Consequently, livestock are concentrated in drier regions where pastoral and
agro-pastoral production systems dominate in order to maximize use of grazing and water resources.
However, even under these systems, animals only gain weight during the wet season and often suffer
considerable weight loss during the dry, depending on the harshness and duration of the season. It is
highly unlikely that alternative production system e.g. planted pastures or intensive grain feeding,
will emerge even in the long term. Therefore, improving animal production and productivity will
depend on improving the current production systems. This should include better range management
strategies which in turn will necessitate secured access rights by herders to grazing lands, mineral
supplementation and watering points.

18.        Sedentary farming is likely to expand at an accelerated pace following the restored
security, the return of displaced people and natural population increase. As livestock population
increase, there will be increasing competition between herders and crop farmers, among others, for
land for grazing and water.

19.        The project will help MARF and partners to tackle these issues by building their internal
capacity for analysis and planning, and designing appropriate policies and regulations to promote
orderly and sustainable development of the livestock sector. This will include effort to estimate the
livestock resources and along with other Ministries and Commissions (Agriculture, Natural
Resources) undertake natural resource planning.

20.       Livestock Marketing: Local markets in both Southern and North Sudan are growing, as are
regional markets in Kenya and Uganda, in particular, with longer term possibilities in the DRC and
Ethiopia. Southern Sudan's access to regional markets may be improved through representation
and/or participation in trade negotiations regionally and internationally, for example COMESA. Such
negotiations could, for example, help to harmonize regulations and set standards for trading live and
slaughtered animals, and skins.

21.        Access to local and regional markets is also constrained by lack of infrastructure and
services. Trekking will remain an important means to get animals to markets even as primary roads
are improved, as livestock production areas extend well beyond these transportation corridors.
Conflicts over grazing land and watering resources as indicated above, could be further exacerbated
by these treks which require that herders and livestock traders traverse set routes to gain access to
marketing towns and set border trading points.

22.        The trek to marketing points could take from several days to many weeks (up to 45 days
and 800 kilometers 9 ) during which time animals suffer weight loss or even mortality depending on
disease conditions, and feed and water availability. Often a period of recuperation is necessary before
the trekked animals can be sold. Along the way, herders and traders are required to pay numerous
legal and illegal taxes to gain rights of passage through rural communities and towns. Additional fees
and taxes are levied at marketing points in the respective towns and trading posts.


  9
      A. King, "Livestock Marketing in Southern Sudan" for PACE, 2002


                                                     21
23.         Herders with little information about market conditions and prices are often at the mercy of
the traders who pass most, if not all, of the risk onto then while bartering needed goods and services
at highly inflated values. Herders and traders arriving at urban markets or border trading points have
little bargaining power with buyers who tend to exploit their `must sell' predicament given the
distance they have traveled. The risk of further losses if animals had to be kept for long periods in
these urban or peri-urban environments or border areas without appropriate holding, feeding and
watering facilities, and veterinary services places herders at a disadvantage. Also, trade at border
posts is constrained by inadequate inspection and animal health and certification and services. In
urban centers slaughtering and merchandizing facilities are poor and prices offered to herders for
animals do not reflect a premium for quality. Some of these distortions seem to be due to marketing
difficulties imposed by the war while others stem directly from the lack of facilities.

24.        Significant numbers of agro-pastoralists are managing their herds in areas adjacent (peri-
urban) to large urban centers, for example Juba, where markets for milk and other dairy products are
rapidly developing. As these markets develop producers who have become engaged are seeking to
improve the milk production of their animals by acquiring superior bulls. Milk supply from these
herds could be steadily increased but collection and processing of wholesome products, in these early
stages of dairy development, pose considerable challenges. Also, the animal health needs of herds
used for milk production must be catered for in order to avoid the spread of such diseases as
Tuberculosis and Brucellosis from animals to humans.

25.        No attempt was made to conduct an economic analysis on the returns to the investment by
the project, as the requisite data was not available. For example, while the cattle population in all of
Southern Sudan is estimated to be between 6-10 million, the population within the target States is not
known. Similarly, critical technical coefficients for such an analysis on birth and mortality rates, age
at calving, calving intervals, and herd extraction rates, for example, could not be estimated. However,
it is known, with a high degree of certainty, that livestock is the main means of livelihood for the
majority of the people and constitute a principal resource on which future development of Southern
Sudan could hinge.

26.       Barriers to Fisheries Development: The fisheries potential cannot be fully realized due the
following constraints: inadequate fisheries management measures; lack of policy, strategy and legal
framework; inadequate transport infrastructure; poorly organized fisher folks; and lack of extension
service.

27.        It is believed that the return of displaced populations and their concentration in particular
fishing grounds (perhaps due to relatively better infrastructure) may put considerable pressure on the
fisheries resources and this may result in overexploitation and damage to the fragile aquatic
ecosystems. Overexploitation of fisheries resources is manifested in either low catches per unit effort
or too many juvenile fish in the catches. In an effort to catch more, fishers frequently resort to the
use of small mesh size nets which catch juvenile fish. The fishers confine to the shallow areas which
also happen to be breeding grounds for some fish species. This is because fishers cannot move to
distant or deeper fishing grounds due to lack of proper nets and boats.

28.        The fisher communities are still scattered and not organized. Provision of extension
services and other infrastructure improvement to such scattered groups can be a big challenge. Where
some basic infrastructure exists fishers form a large proportion of the population. During the 21 years
of war, there was no significant assistance for the fisheries sector since the fishers had been scattered.
FAO has been working with fisher communities by distributing nets, hooks as part of the relief for
the returning fishers. A number of NGOs like Catholic Relief Services (CRS), Winrock International
have supported sector studies as part of the Southern Sudan Agricultural Revitalization Program.


                                                    22
Past, On-going and Proposed Livestock and Fisheries Development Programs

Operation Lifeline Sudan (OLS)

29.       In 1988, as the death toll resulting from war-induced famines was swiftly rose, the UN
Secretary General requested UNICEF to organize a special relief operation in Sudan. OLS was
established in April 1989 and placed under the supervision of UNICEF and WFP. FAO took over
supervisory responsibility in 2001. OLS delivered, through UN agencies and a network of around 35
NGOs, humanitarian assistance to most war-affected civilian populations in Sudan.

30.       The North/South conflict as well as a series of severe droughts greatly disrupted
agricultural activities in Southern Sudan. This resulted in increased dependence of rural populations
on livestock to meet their daily food needs. In 1993, OLS through UNICEF and specialized partner
NGOs initiated the Livestock Program to provide animal health services to stock owners.

31.        Under the OLS Livestock Program, vaccination campaigns and distribution of animal
health drugs were carried out by a network of CAHWs set up and trained by NGOs. The cold chain
system necessary to store drugs and vaccines in remote areas was financed by UNICEF. Standards
for CAHW training, as well as a list of authorized drugs constituted the main guidelines for the OLS
Livestock Program. In the absence of a structured governance system, the CAHW network provided,
on a cost recovery basis, services that have helped preserve the livestock base of Southern Sudan.
More than half of the trained CAHWs (around 4000 in total) are still active.

32.       OLS phased out following the signature of the CPA but NGOs still receive financial
support from bilateral and UN agencies to promote community animal health service delivery. ECHO
and USAID are among the main contributors; FAO provides NGOs with drugs and vaccines.
However, overall support to NGOs involved in the livestock sector is decreasing.

33.       Until the creation of GoSS, FAO was the livestock "focal point" for Southern Sudan and
organized coordination meetings gathering key stakeholders every three months. MARF is now
calling and chairing these meetings with financial and organizational support from FAO.

Pan African Program for the Control of Epizootics

34.        The Pan African Program for the Control of Epizootics (PACE) was launched in 1999 and
builds on the results of a previous program, the Pan African Rinderpest Campaign (PARC). The main
objective of PACE is to accurately determine the prevalence and impact of epizootic diseases on
livestock production though surveillance in 35 African countries. It is a 72 million program that is
coordinated by the Inter-African Bureau of Animal Resources (IBAR) of the African Union (AU).

35.        Widespread outbreaks of Rinderpest occurred in Southern Sudan in the early 1990s but the
vaccination campaigns carried out by the OLS Livestock Program from 1993 onwards (a total of 7.5
million head of cattle was vaccinated) reduced the number and severity of outbreaks to almost none.
To achieve the eradication of Rinderpest PARC and PACE in Sudan - programs of a cross-border
nature - introduced a shift from mass vaccination to active surveillance and outbreak control.

36.       PACE is implemented by local and international NGOs led by Veterinaires Sans Frontieres
Belgium (VSFB) in Southern Sudan and by the GNU with the support of GTZ in North Sudan. The
PACE has been very successful at controlling Rinderpest: Sudan has obtained an OIE Provisional
Disease Free Status; the Free Status declaration should be granted in 2008.


                                                   23
Southern Sudan Agricultural Revitalization Program (SSARP)

37.       USAID has been the principal financier of SPLM Secretariat for Agriculture and Animal
Resources (SAAR) during the civil war, notably through training of staff and provision of equipment.
The USAID-funded SSARP is the most noticeable rural development program implemented in
Southern Sudan in the last decade. Launched in 2003, this US$24.0 million program aimed at
addressing some the constraints facing agriculture in Southern Sudan by providing technical and
business skills training to stimulate agricultural commercialization, strengthening commodity
networks and agribusinesses, and providing access to capital, technology and information. The
SSARP is implemented by a consortium of NGOs led by CRS; financial services are channeled by
Chemonics. The SSARP will end in September 2006.

38.        Training programs for rural entrepreneurs were supported by the rehabilitation of six
training centers - including one center for livestock (Marial Lou) and one for fisheries (Padak).
Following the Training Center Act (2004), training centers developed under the SSARP are managed
as semi-autonomous corporate bodies.

Land O' Lakes

39.        Land O'Lakes, in collaboration with Vetwork Services Trust, a Sudanese NGO, is
implementing the US$ 2.5 million Southern Sudan Dairy and Livestock activity ("Creating Model
Private Sector Cattle Marketing and Dairy Co-operatives") funded by USAID. The key objective of
this project launched in early 2006 is to create functioning and sustainable cattle marketing and dairy
processing cooperatives as models (in Kapoeta County - Eastern Equatoria) through improved skills,
technologies and practices including improved agribusiness development. The animal health
component of the project includes training of existing local CAHWs.

Sudan Productive Capacity Recovery Program (SPCRP)

40.        FAO is preparing the SPRCP for funding by the EC. The estimated cost of the project is
Euro 40 million over five years, of which 10-15 million will be for livestock and fisheries sector in
about a third of the counties in the five States: Lakes, Leich, Northern Bahr el Ghazal, Western Bahr
el Ghazal and Western Equatoria States. The SPCRP is expected to build human and physical
capacities of State Ministries of Agriculture, Animal Resources and Irrigation (SMAARI); deliver
improved animal health services and agricultural support and invest in livestock and crop production,
income generation and marketing. In addition, the project support state rural development funds and
four model sub sector investment projects, one of which is the Bahr el Ghazal Livestock Production
and Marketing Project that will be active in Lakes, Northern Bahr el Ghazal and Warrab States and
will aim to support cattle trade though stock routes demarcation, improved animal health services and
development of market infrastructure. The program will be implemented by FAO.

Fisheries

41.         A very limited number of projects supporting Fisheries - mainly consisting in distribution
of fishing equipment - have been implemented by OLS and non-OLS NGOs. Early 2004, FAO began
to pilot a new system of fishing input delivery centered on "bush shops" in Panyinjar and Leich
counties which are operated by beneficiary members of informal fishing groups under the EC-funded
Humanitarian Plus Program. This small program constitutes the main on-going intervention
supporting the fisheries sector.



                                                   24
42.        One of the four model projects under the EC-SPCRP will support fisheries production and
marketing in the Nyal, Shambe Terakeka corridor (Lakes and Central Equatoria) through
development of fisher-folk associations, provision of fishing equipment and construction of fisheries
infrastructure.

Supporting Livelihoods of Vulnerable Communities (SVLC) in Southern Sudan

43.        The Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation/Swiss Humanitarian Aid (SDC-
SHA) and the Office for Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) are funding VSF-Suisse's efforts to
assist the vulnerable households, particularly returnees and female headed households and to support
the process of re-integration of returnees into host communities over a two year period (2005-2006)
through animal restocking activities.

44.        The project targeted 360 vulnerable households among resident and returning communities
in five locations in three counties in two States. The project expected that targeted households would
become self-sufficient through engaging in restocking and complementary activities of other NGOs
and WFP emergency food distribution.

45.     The recent evaluation of the project made the following key observations and
recommendations:
     · the project has achieved its objectives through restocking the targeted households with
        local animals and minimized problems associated with adaptation/stress, spreading new
        disease and overgrazing;
     · there was a high level of community participation but more could be done to involve the
        communities in the identification of vulnerable households and allowing the beneficiary
        household to select the animals;
     · positive impacts, in terms of livelihood improvement and social networking, are visible;
        many restocked animals are milked, part of which is consumed thereby improving
        household nutrition; some households have increased the numbers of small stock through
        rearing;.
     · distress sale of animals needed to be prevented;
     · training of the beneficiaries should precede before distribution of animals and there should
        be provision of refresher training;
     · fodder production should be encouraged; and farmer to farmer and farmer field school
        extension approach should be considered; and
     · cost-benefit analysis of the restocking program should have been conducted.

Possible Synergies between the Proposed Project and Other Programs

46.       In order to maximize synergies between MARF project for MDTF and other on-going and
proposed interventions, the following points were considered by MARF during the identification
phase:

      ·   The network of CAHWs and veterinary drug pharmacists trained by NGOs has been
          successful in preserving livestock assets in Southern Sudan. It is important that the network
          that constitutes the foundation of the veterinary private sector in Southern Sudan, is
          strengthened and expanded. It is expected that the decentralized tiers of GoSS, under the
          guidance of MARF, would gradually assume responsibilities for monitoring and
          supervision the CAHWs.




                                                  25
·   Rinderpest is not the only animal disease negatively affecting productivity and commercial
    value of livestock. Other animal diseases, including zoonotics ones, have to be effectively
    controlled.

·   Training centers have played an important role in transferring skills to entrepreneurial
    farmers, herders, fisher folks and service providers. They could also be instrumental in
    training staff of MARF and SDARF. Training centers are semi-autonomous public entities
    but currently rely almost completely on USAID and NGO funding. These will need to be
    supported and their capacity further developed and clear financing mechanisms defined.

·   The proposed project intends to develop the capacity of MARF and the five States not
    covered by the proposed SPCRP. The MDTF MARF project will develop town markets in
    Southern Sudan, as well as trade-related infrastructure to facilitate export to Uganda,
    Kenya, North Sudan and possibly Ethiopia. It is expected that livestock production areas
    which would receive SPCRP support would benefit from new commercial outlets and
    enhanced export facilities.

·   An Initial Project Proposal for Livestock for Sudan GNU has recently been approved by
    MDTF. The proposed GNU project includes support to prepare a livestock census and
    develop production and marketing infrastructure to enhance South/North cattle trade.
    These are consistent with the GoSS MARF project proposal.




                                            26
                              Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
             Southern Sudan: Livestock and Fisheries Development Project

1.      The US$42.0 million Project will cover five states Upper Nile, Unity, Jonglei, East and
Central Equatoria states where about one half of the total livestock in Southern Sudan is
concentrated. The project builds on the experiences with previous programs for improving animal
health and service delivery supported by ECHO EC, FAO and USAID during the war and also
addresses the critical needs for capacity building, physical infrastructure, and livelihood support to
war affected vulnerable groups in rural areas and an overall policy and regulatory framework for
the sector. The project design takes into consideration the need to achieve some immediate results
on the ground while also contributing to the longer term sector development. The Project has four
components:

Component 1: Institutional Development and Capacity Building
Component 2: Improvement of Service Delivery for Animal Health
Component 3: Livestock Marketing Support
Component 4: Development of Fish Production and Marketing

2.       Component 1: Institutional Development and Capacity Development. The purpose of this
component is to create the internal capacity for MARF and SDARF to assume and discharge their
roles and responsibilities as regulators and service providers to the livestock and fisheries resources
sectors of the GoSS. This is a priority activity to clearly demarcate the roles and responsibilities of
the government and the private sector (including NGOs) to avoid any future crowding out of the
private sector or undermining a reasonable functioning community based animal health care
system. The activities under this component include:

        assisting MARF to clarify its role and responsibilities within the Sudan GNU, other
        Ministries of GoSS, and with State Ministries and enact basic legislation and regulations to
        facilitate these relationships, including the role of the private sector; developing
        mechanisms for transition of those activities which essentially fall in the domain of private
        goods to the private sector;
        building the Ministry's capacity to formulate policies, set priorities and plans (including
        human resources;
        building capacity of MARF and SDARF to prepare implementation plans and budgets, and
        coordinate service delivery among partners for accelerated and sustainable development of
        the sector;
        enhancing technical and managerial skills, at senior levels of MARF and State ministries,
        needed for effective management of the livestock and fisheries sectors; including building
        capacity for administration, procurement and financial management within MARF;
        building institutional capacity within MARF and partners to provide operational level
        specialized training to meet certain sector needs; development of pre- and in-service
        training capacity and programs, including updating and developing curriculum and training
        material, long and short term training, study tours and short term professional attachments
        at other national, regional or international institutions;
        providing services of external technical experts to serve as counterparts to the directorates
        of MARF and States Ministries to ensure technology transfer;
        developing Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) capacity in MARF, and establish an M&E
        system in the Directorate of Planning; a primary function of this capacity will be to
        develop performance indicators and measure the performance of the livestock and fisheries



                                                  27
        sectors against the indicators; support in MARF; identify training needs at the central,
        SDARF and county levels; provide technical assistance support to build M&E capacity as
        well training to measure the performance of the project, including performance of the
        service delivery agents and other agents working with MARF on this project;
        providing adequate working environment through constructing and equipping headquarter
        office for MARF, rehabilitating and equipping SDARF offices in project areas; providing
        vehicles, information and communication facilities; and
        building capacity for sustainable management of natural resources at all levels.

3.      The project will finance the following: (i) cost of Technical Assistance (TA) for policy and
strategy formulation, capacity building and implementation support; (ii) construction of MARF
Head office, rehabilitation of State offices in the project areas; office equipment, information and
communication facilities, and vehicles and operating costs. During the first year, the project will
support detailed planning for the physical investment program, including surveying and mapping,
designing and costing, and equipment specifications.

4.       Component 2: Improvement of Service Delivery for Animal Health. The main objective of
this component is to protect livestock from disease which severely affect the production and
productivity of livestock, and constrain access to local and regional markets. Public-private
partnerships will be promoted to facilitate private sector participation in the delivery of animal
health services to meet individual producer needs, in the longer run. The component will focus on
the issues of (a) selection process of the community workers; (b) the level of incentives to make
this a viable livelihood option; and (c) a functioning system of replenishment of stock. The project
will finance studies to help address the information gap for prioritization of investment, facilitate
sector planning and orient project implementation. The project will collaborate with the study
proposed for both the North and South Sudan for estimating the livestock population based on
aerial techniques, which is more affordable than the census. The main activities under this
component are:

        To address the issue of data, the baseline data concerning disease prevalence, other than for
        Rinderpest, will be collected to prepare good estimates of the livestock resources of the
        region.;
        Development of disease control strategy based on cost benefit analyses;
        Review and refinement of the CAHW system;
        Establishing an animal disease surveillance and control system which will include
        laboratory facilities, mobile clinics, field veterinarians and veterinary technicians,
        including veterinary pharmacists and supervised community-based animal health;
        Enhancing the capacity and expanding the networks of CAHWs and VPs through training
        of the staff at the various levels of the CAHW system as well as a cadre of veterinary
        pharmacists. Distribution of drugs to CAHWs will be done through licensed veterinary
        pharmacists. An appropriate regulatory framework will be develop (Component 1) for
        creating an enabling operating environment for CAHW (legal recognition through
        licensing) and veterinary pharmacists.

5.      The project will finance the cost of the studies, construction of a central diagnostic
laboratory in Juba, and the rehabilitation of two regional ones (Wau and Malakal), expansion of the
Marial Lou Livestock Training Center, regional experts to provide training of trainers,
contingency drugs and cold chains, cost of the mobile clinics, requisite laboratory and field
diagnostic equipment and supplies. Construction of the laboratories will begin in the first year of
the project. MARF will contract NGOs with good working experience in Southern Sudan to build
and operate the CAHW and VP networks. This activity will start from the first year of the project.


                                                 28
Based on the review and further refinement of the system, in subsequent years, a rationalized
system of service delivery will be established. The project will also support the training of a cadre
of quality control inspectors to be hired by MARF.

6.      Component 3: Livestock Marketing Support. The main objective of this component is to
promote greater access to domestic markets for meat, milk products, and regional markets for meat
and skins. The project will enhance the capacity of the producers to participate effectively in these
markets by providing veterinary inspections, treatments and certification services, and better
market information. The component will also focus on the issue of illegal taxation and the
operation and maintenance of the systems that would be put in place, specifically defining the roles
of the public and the private sector. This component will have two sub-components:

        Improving Access to Markets. This will help address the issues of limited market
        information and poor market infrastructure. The project will monitor and analyze the price
        trends in major markets, and development mechanisms for dissemination the information
        through electronic, print and verbal media. Livestock traders and herders will be trained to
        market in an auction system, and become knowledgeable about grading and certification,
        taxation, and legal procedures for export. A livestock market specialist will be available to
        support MARF in these areas (Component 1). Access to markets will also be increased
        through the improved physical infrastructure facilities, such as, (i) construction of five
        sanitary slaughtering facilities in selected towns; (ii) the development of five holding and
        auction yards/grounds in marketing towns and border trading points with Uganda, Kenya
        and possibly Ethiopia and providing veterinary services at these places, including
        inspection and certification services; and (iii) demarcating trading routes and providing
        services (watering and animal health) along these routes. Investment in these facilities will
        commence in the second or third year based on the findings of the studies on marketing
        and demarcation routes, mentioned in Component 1 above. The project will finance the
        cost of monitoring and dissemination of market information, training of traders and
        herders, and development of physical facilities.

        Marketing of Improved Quality Meat. There is no quality control for the meat sold in the
        local markets in Southern Sudan at the present time. Slaughter premises are in poor
        condition and slaughtering is being done under unsatisfactory hygienic conditions. There
        is no system of formal licensing of slaughter houses or any health certification of the meat
        sold. In most cases, products are neither inspected, nor subjected to trade and health
        regulations. While sanitary regulations will be reviewed and improved under Component 1,
        the project would finance the construction or rehabilitation of sanitary slaughtering
        facilities in five main town markets, based on the results of the study on market demand for
        meat in the urban centers. The project will also support the introduction of appropriate
        regulations to govern these facilities, and facilitate meat certification, and mechanism to
        ensure compliance with the improved regulations. These facilities, to be developed, would
        be co-managed on cost-recovery basis and in accordance with public health regulations by
        local authorities and associations of traders and butchers. Users of the facilities would be
        required to pay a fee. The project would also finance the training of butchers and meat
        handlers and of meat inspectors in the five selected towns selected.

        Developing peri-urban dairy. Demand for milk and other dairy products is increasing in
        the major urban center in Southern Sudan. In Juba for example, milk collection and
        processing has already started. The project will help promote further development of peri-
        urban dairying using Juba as a pilot. In the first or second year, a study will be carried out
        to assess the potential of peri-urban dairy activities in Southern Sudan and identify suitable


                                                 29
        entry points to promote orderly development. Based on the production and market
        analysis, the project will provide support for training of milk producers along the
        production, collection, processing and marketing chain, and the creation of suitable
        organizations to undertake these functions. MARF will contract organizations with
        experience in dairy development in Sudan and neighboring countries to design and operate
        the pilot. The cost of this contract will be financed from the project.

7.       Component 4: Development of Fish Production and Marketing. This component will aim
at increasing production, minimizing post-harvest losses building capacity of State and county
fisheries technicians and fishing community to develop an efficient service delivery system. Under
Component 1, there is provision for one external Fisheries Technical Advisor and technical
assistance for the preparation of legal instruments to form the basis for a proposed Fisheries Act to
support fisheries development and management in Southern Sudan. Critical office equipment and
vehicles, as well as training for the Directorate of Fisheries in MARF and SDARF are also included
in Component 1. This component has the following sub-components.

        Assessment of Fisheries Resources and Human Resources Development for Fisheries.
        Baseline survey of fisheries resources and development of fisheries database will be a key
        activity in this component. The project will also focus on technical and business skills to
        enhance fish production and storage, fish processing, and marketing to both the fisheries
        personnel of MARF and SDARF, as well as outreach programs for fishers. The project will
        refurbish the training facility at Padak , finance regional experts to provide training of
        trainers in Southern Sudan, as well as academic and management training for the fisheries
        personnel (under Component 1). The project will finance baseline surveys and other
        studies, fishers' training, demonstration activities, and community based extension
        workers.

        Establishment of Fish Handling Facility. Based on financial assessment of the market
        potential for fish and interest of the community, fish landing facilities will be supported
        under the project on co-financing terms with community participation from the third year
        of the project. These facilities will be located at strategic points to provide storage for dry
        fish, facility for fresh fish handling and fish auction yards. Pre-investment activities will
        include sensitizing, mobilizing and training the community in improved fish storage and
        handling facilities. The project will finance physical facilities for fish storage and
        processing.




                                                  30
                     Annex 3: Detailed Implementation Arrangements
                Southern Sudan: Livestock and Fisheries Development Project

1.      Implementation arrangements for the project will focus on accelerated execution, capacity
building and building partnership and coordination.

    Project implementation will be accelerated by:
        (a) supporting a TA team of internationally recruited experts, preferably from well reputed
             organizations to work closely with the Sudanese professionals at MARF and SDARF;
             and
        (b) establishing effective implementation modalities (such as contracting NGOs for animal
             health service delivery, rural livelihood support for vulnerable groups, etc with agreed
             work plans and clear performance indicators).
    Capacity will be enhanced at all levels by:
        (a) ensuring that the international experts for project implementation and technical support
             transfer these skills to the MARF and SDARF officials at all levels;
        (b) providing access to training (pre and in-service, short and long-term) to both public
             officials and community based non-government workers, livestock and fisheries
             profession based groups, and professional attachments in reputed regional institutions
             for MARF and SDARF officials;
        (c) applying clear procurement and financial management procedures within the
             framework of a Project Implementation Manual and consistent with the on-going work
             for the GoSS.
    Partnership and coordination will be built by:
        (a) supporting and strengthening the existing consultative forum (comprising
             representatives of NGOs, associations of herders, traders, community animal health
             workers, private sector etc) to ensure participatory formulation and implementation of
             the policies and strategies and the regulatory framework;
        (b) coordinating implementation arrangements to ensure effective and efficient linkages
             among GoSS authorities, participating donors and implementation partners.

2.        Implementation period: The project will be implementation over a five year period and
expected to be effective from November 2006.

3.      Organization and Management: The project will operate within the framework of
responsibilities for project organization and management established by MoFEP. Under these
arrangements, MoFEP will have overall responsibility for procurement and financial management
while internal capacity is being built in MARF.

4.         MARF will be the recipient of the grant. A PSC comprising the MARF Under-Secretary
and the seven Director Generals will be established and the PSC will be responsible for the overall
execution of this project including being accountable for the achievement of the project's
development objectives. The Office of the Under-Secretary will coordinate the activities of the
various directorates and MARF, States and MARF, line institutions and MARF and other
Ministries and MARF. Implementation responsibility of the different components of the project
will be with the relevant technical Directorates at the MARF level. (See the Organization Chart.)
In addition to the seven Director Generals, there are few junior officials in MARF. The DSP will
have coordinating functions, and liaise with the development partners and other ministries. To
accelerate strengthening of the capacity of the Ministry and ensure timely implementation of the
project activities, MARF will recruit competent technical experts. Two teams of technical


                                                 31
assistance will be recruited by MARF. These teams will work within the organizational structure
of the Ministry. The CBIST will work with DSP. The TST will provide technical support in the
areas of animal health, marketing, research and extension, and fisheries development. The Team
Leader of CBIST will report to the DG of DSP while the Team Leader of TST to the DG Planning.
The individual technical consultants will be deputed to the different Directorates but the overall
coordination responsibility will be that of the Team Leader. The DSP along with DG Planning will
ensure coordination between the two teams.

5.       Oversight: The Government will establish an Inter-Ministerial Livestock and Fisheries
Coordination Committee (LFICC) to provide overall guidance for the development of the sector
and to coordinate the activities of the various development partners, NGOs to ensure harmonization
of the different approaches and financing of the sector. The LFICC will comprise of
representatives from the MoFEP, Agriculture and Forestry, Rural Development, Water and
Irrigation, and Transport and Roads. The PSC will be chaired by the Minister of MARF and co-
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Forests.

6.       Implementation Arrangement for Each Component: The project provides for extensive
external support to help MARF address the capacity issues. As mentioned above, MARF has
allocated responsibility for project implementation to the relevant directorates and plans to support
these directorates with external expertise for both management and technical aspects.

    ·   Technical Assistance for Capacity Building and Project Implementation (Components 1, 2,
        3 and 4): Technical assistance requirements for each of these components have been
        identified and these have been grouped into two: organization and management support
        and technical support. Accordingly two firms/organizations will be recruited.

    The CBIST will work in the following broad areas:

        policy and strategy development (including the areas of decentralization and the
        relationship between MARF and the States, delineation of public and private sector roles,
        planning, budgeting, financing, and the role of government in service delivery; legal
        aspects);
        human resources development (including manpower and facilities planning, budgeting,
        strategy and personnel management systems);
        management training;
        information and communication;
        social analysis and environmental management;
        monitoring and evaluation;
        engineering services to build and upgrade facilities, training institutions, and other essential
        infrastructure as well as to provide assistance in the acquisition of necessary equipment and
        material;
        program coordination;
        procurement, specifically to prepare and coordinate the implementation of the procurement
        plan; and
        financial management, specifically to ensure that internationally recognized accounting and
        auditing procedures are respected.

    The Technical Support Team (TST) will work in the following broad areas:

        livestock and fisheries planning and support to policy and strategy preparation;



                                                  32
    development of pre-and in-service training capacity and programs; including updating of
    curriculum and training of trainers;
    animal health and disease control system (including laboratory development);
    livestock marketing;
    dairy development; and
    fisheries development (extension service system, aquaculture and marketing)

· Service Delivery for Livestock, Fisheries and Marketing (Components 2, 3): Applying the
competitive bidding process, MARF will contract NGOs with experience in Southern Sudan.
The main responsibilities of the NGOs would be to:

    in consultation with the community, identify suitable persons from the community to serve
    as community workers for animal health and fisheries;
    develop a viable incentive system for the community workers;
    develop a mechanism for replenishment of stocks;
    provide training to new workers as well as refresher training to existing workers;
    develop programs for service delivery in consultation with MARF and TST;
    supervision and reporting;

7.    Participation of Private Sector (Components 2, 3 and 4): There is scope for the private
sector involvement in setting up veterinary pharmacies, peri-urban dairy development and fish
marketing. The project would help promote private sector participation through creating an
enabling policy environment and capacity building (where necessary).




                                           33
                                                          MARF ORGANOGRAM

                                                                       Minister MARF

                                             Office manager                               Chairperson
                                                                                          Veterinary Board

                                                                       Under secretary
                                                                       MARF
D/G            D/G Special      D/G Anima          D/G                                                       D/G Res.,                        D/G Plan.
Admin/Fin.     Projects         Prod &             Veterinary                                                Ext and                          Invest. And
                                Range              Services                                                  Training                         Makt



Director       Director         Director                  Director                             Director Ext.             Principal           Director Plan,
Admin/Fin.     Special          Anim Prod                 Veterinary                           Res and                   Marial Lou          Invest & Markt
               Projects         & Range                   Services                             Training                                      Markt




D/D      D/D     D/D         D/D     D/D          D/D         D/D       D/D      D/D     D/D         D/D        D/D       Dep         Dir     D/D       D/D
Adm      Fin     Pro         Anim    Range        Dis $       Epid      Pub      Vet     Res         Train      Ext       Prin        Stud    Plan      Inves &
                 Mangt       Prod    Man          Vect        &         Hlt      Serv                                                         &         Mark
                                                  Cont        IMS       &                                                                     Stat
                                                                        food
                                                                        safe




                    The MARF organogram showing the positions currently budgeted for 2006-2007




                                                                        34
                                             Annex 4: Program Costs
                Southern Sudan: Livestock and Fisheries Development Project

1.      Program costs total US$ 42.0 million for five years, of which the MDTF will finance US$ 20.0
million and the GoSS will finance US$ 22.0 million.

Table 1: Annual Costs of the Project by Source of Financing (US$ million)
   Year        MDTF          GoSS             Total

     1           2.5          3.37             5.87
     2          5.17          5.52            10.69
     3          5.80          6.03            11.83
     4          4.10          4.66            8.76
     5          2.43          2.42            4.85

   Total        20.0          22.0             42.0


2.     Table 2 provides program costs by component. The allocation by component in second year and
onwards may change as a result of the annual program planning and budgeting at the end of the previous
year. The components are designed such that rapid scale-up of project activities with additional GoSS
funds would be entirely possible.

                       Table 2: Annual Project Costs by Component (US$ million)
              Component                  Year 1        Year 2         Year 3      Year 4         Year 5         Total
Institutional Development and             3.06                                                                  11.25
Capacity Building                                           2.42       2.07            1.95       1.75
Service Delivery for Animal Health           2.0             5.2        5.1            3.25       1.45           17.0
Livestock Marketing Support                  0.31           1.17       3.46            2.41       1.05            8.4
Fish Production and Marketing                 0.5            1.9        1.2            1.15        0.6           5.35

Total                                        5.87       10.69          11.83       8.76           4.85           42.0


3.      Table 3 provides costs by category and year. About 33 percent of the project cost will be spent for
civil works to address the urgent need for office space, research laboratories and training centers. Less
than one third will be spent for consultant and NGO services to assist MARF with the quick
implementation of the project activities.

                          Table 3: Annual Project Costs by Category (US$ million)
           Category                  Year 1         Year 2         Year 3      Year 4         Year 5     Total

Works                                 1.05           3.6              4.1         3.6           1.66     14.01
Goods                                 1.68           2.03            1.89        0.89           0.28     6.76
Training                              0.41            1.2            1.55        1.25           0.79      5.2
Services (including NGOs)             1.94           3.37            3.64        2.27           1.22     12.43
Operating Costs                        0.8            0.5            0.65        0.75            0.9      3.6

Total                                 5.87          10.69           11.83       8.76            4.85     42.0

                                                               35
                        Annex 5: Initial Implementation Plan for the First Year
                     Southern Sudan: Livestock and Fisheries Development Project

         Description             Implementation Plan               Mechanism for
                                                                   Implementation


Institutional Development
and Capacity Building

Implementation support           Setting up basic systems          USAID financed Procurement
                                 (financial, procurement,          Advisor to assist with the
                                 general administration,           preparation of the bidding
                                 staffing, etc) in MARF and the    process for the recruitment of
                                 States to make these offices      organizations/firms to provide
                                 operational.                      capacity building and
                                                                   implementation support
                                                                   (CBIST TA) and technical
                                                                   support by a Technical
                                                                   Support Team (TST);

                                                                   CBIST to define roles and
                                                                   responsibilities and CBIST
                                                                   and TST to develop plan.

Develop M&E capability           Base Line Survey                  CBIST

                                 Develop performance               CBIST
                                 indicators based on baseline
                                 survey; identify training needs
                                 at all levels; design M&E
                                 system

Manpower planning and            HR survey and development         CBIST
personnel management;            of HR policy and planning



Management Training              Training needs identification     CBIST for organizational
                                 (based on HR Survey and           management training and TST
                                 medium-term development           for technical training.
                                 plans); training plan
                                 development; and training
                                 program (pre- and in-service
                                 and urgent short training)
                                 implemented

Technical training               Training needs identification;    TST to identify appropriate
                                 training plan development;
                                                     36
                                 and training program (pre- and    organizations for training.
                                 in-service; urgent short and
                                 long term training)
                                 implemented

Physical Infrastructure

Operational MARF and             Construction and equipping of     Contract UNOPS or private
SDARF Offices                    prefab office for MARF            contractors

                                 Equipping SDARF offices
                                 (with rehabilitation work
                                 where required)

Operational Laboratories         Construction and equipping of     CBIST TA to help with design
                                 prefab for central lab (Juba)     of facilities and identify
                                 and rehabilitation and            critical equipment (with TST
                                 equipping of two regional         TA); assist with bid
                                 labs (Wau and Malakal)            preparation and supervision of
                                                                   work; UNOPS/ private
                                                                   contractors for construction.

Operational Fisheries and        Surveys to                        CBIST TA will develop TORs
Livestock Training Centers       rehabilitate/develop the Marial   and assist MARF to identify
                                 Lou Livestock TC and the          competent firms to carry out
                                 Fisheries Padak TC                the survey

Improvement of Service
Delivery

Livestock disease surveillance   Identification of prevalent       Animal Health expert in TST
and control                      disease and their impact;         will develop TORs and assist
                                 development of cost-effective     MARF to identify competent
                                 disease control strategy          individuals to carry out the
                                                                   study.

                                 Enhancing capacity and            TST will develop TORs
                                 expanding the community           (including clear indicators)
                                 based animal health workers       and assist MARF with the
                                 network                           procurement of NGOs with
                                                                   excellent track records to carry
                                                                   out this activity for the first
                                                                   year. Program from second
                                                                   year onwards will be based on
                                                                   the development of a cost-
                                                                   effective disease control
                                                                   strategy.

Service delivery for fisheries   Refinement of the CAHW            TST
                                 system (selection, incentives

                                                     37
                               etc)

                               Development of a community        Fisheries expert in the TST
                               based service delivery system     will carry out the assessment
                                                                 and help to develop the
                                                                 system.

Livestock Marketing
Support

Market Potential               Conduct a livestock marketing     Livestock Marketing Expert in
                               study to identify priority        TST will develop TORs and
                               internal and trade markets,       assist MARF to identify
                               infrastructure support required   resources to carry out the
                               and priority stock routes         study.

Training                       Training of traders and herders   Livestock Marketing Expert in
                               on livestock marketing            TST will prepare the training
                                                                 materials and develop training
                                                                 of trainers.

Peri-urban dairy development   Conduct a study on the            Dairy development specialist
                               potentials of peri-urban dairy    in the TST will carry out the
                               industry and determine a set of   study and develop the
                               activities to support its         program.
                               development




                                                   38
                                  Annex 6: Results Framework and Monitoring


                                  SOUTHERN SUDAN:
                    LIVESTOCK AND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

It is not possible to prepare a comprehensive Results Framework for this project at this time. Below is an
initial framework matrix.
                                          Results Framework 10

PDO                                      Output/Outcome Indicators                 Use of Output/Outcome
                                                                                   Information

To improve the performance of            Establish animal disease                  To assess number of veterinarians,
the livestock and fisheries              surveillance and control system           vet pharmacists and CAHWs. and
sectors in five selected states of       (non existent at project start).          assessment of quality of services
South Sudan
                                         Increase the number of cattle             To assess the ability/capacity to
                                         traded in market towns and border         improve marketing and sales of
                                         points by x percent by the end of         livestock as a proxy for measuring
                                         the project.                              income generation.

                                         Increase by x percent the volume          To assess the capacity to increase
                                         of fish that reaches main urban           production, reach urban markets,
                                         centers by the end of the project.        and implement the necessary
                                                                                   preservations techniques.

Intermediate Results                     Results Indicators                        Use of Results Monitoring

To improve service delivery              Increase the number of animals            To assess the ability to manage a
for animal health                        vaccinated by x in by the end of          program that is critical to
                                         Phase I and by y at the end of Year       increasing the survival chances of
                                         5 (Phase II).                             animals.
                                         Increase in the number of animals
                                         treated by x by the end of Phase I
                                         and by y at the end of Phase II.

To improve livestock marketing           One holding and auction                   To measure usefulness and
support                                  yards/grounds, including                  effectiveness of markets and
                                         inspection and certification              disease control centers.
                                         services, are operating and
                                         functional by the end of Phase I
                                         and five by the end of Phase II.

                                         Five sanitary slaughtering facilities     Measures availability of and
                                         in select towns operating, on             capacity to manage, facilities to
                                         average, by at least 50 percent           provide quality meat to the market.


10
     These indicators and target outputs will be confirmed after a baseline survey and stakeholder consultation.
                                                              39
                                 capacity by the end of the project.


Delivering peri-urban dairy      At least two pilot dairy in           To measure the ability of the
                                 operation by the end of Year 4        private sector to operate the
                                 (Phase 2)                             facility.

Increasing fish production and   Volume of marketable fish             To measure the ability to develop
access to marketing              increased by x percent and access     the potential of fisheries resources
                                 to markets in larger towns by y       and reduce fish harvest loss.
                                 percent by the end of project




                                                    40
                                                                 Arrangements for results monitoring
                                                                                                            Target values                                                  Data Collection an

Output/Outcome Indicators                                  Base-           YR1                YR2                    YR3        YR4                  YR5            Frequency        Data
(indicative, to be confirmed)                               line                                                                                                       and        Collection
                                                                                                                                                                     Reports     Instruments
                                                                                 Phase I (2 years)                              Phase II (3 years)

Increase the number of cattle traded in market towns and   n/a       n/a          Baseline assessment to be                              30% (end of project                     Market
border points by x percent in 5 years                                             conducted before improving                             assessment)                             assessments
                                                                                  market infrastructure

Establish animal disease surveillance and control system   n/a       To be                                                               End of project target to   Annually     Survey of
(non existent at project start)                                      measured                                                            be determined 6                         served areas
    - number of veterinarians                                        annually                                                            months after project
    - number of vet pharmacists                                                                                                          effectiveness
    - number of CAHWs
    - assessment of quality of services

Increase by x percent the volume of fish that reaches      n/a                    Baseline assessment to be                              End of project target to   Annually     Market
main urban centers.                                                               conducted before                                       be determined 6                         Survey
                                                                                  constructing processing and                            months after project
                                                                                  marketing facilities                                   effectiveness

Results Indicators (Indicative, to be confirmed)

Increase the number of animals vaccinated by x by the      n/a                    Baseline assessment to be                              End of project target to   Annually     Administrativ
end of Phase 1 and y by the end of Phase II.                                      conducted before                                       be determined 6                         e data
                                                                                  establishing health services                           months after project
                                                                                                                                         effectiveness

One holding and auction yards/grounds, including           0         0            1                              5                                                  Annually     On site
inspection and certification services, are operating and                                                                                                                         verification
functional by the end of Phase I and five by the end of
Phase II.

5 sanitary slaughtering facilities are operating, on       0         0            1                              3          5                                       Annually    On-site
                                                                                                                                                                                verification
average, by at least 50% capacity by Year 5.




                                                                                      41
                            Annex 7: Procurement Arrangements
                 Southern Sudan: Livestock and Fisheries Development Project


Procurement Environment

1.       The JAM identified public procurement system in Southern Sudan as non existent and the
civil service itself as very weak and would need to be developed from a very low base. There were
no official procurement procedures, institutional framework and capacity to support procurement,
but the Government has now approved "Interim Public Procurement Regulations" for use by all
public institutions. These Regulations provide a framework for institutional arrangements for
decision-making, approvals and procedures for processing contracts. Other constraints that would
affect procurement include: (i) severe lack of communications (postal and telecommunication
services), (ii) poor physical infrastructure, (iii) limited media (e.g., to advertise), (iv) low capacity
of local private sector (suppliers, consultants and contractors), and (v) low capacity of a supporting
regulatory environment (e.g., customs, banking) that have barely started to emerge. As these
constraints affect the absorption capacity of GoSS in the early days of the reconstruction and
development program, JAM recommended a centrally managed procurement system as an interim
measure. As soon as a more comprehensive procurement system is put in place and capacity of
public entities is built, the next step will be to phase out the centralized arrangements and transfer
the procurement responsibility to line Ministries and other arms of Government.

2.      JAM concluded that Southern Sudan would require assistance to build capacity in public
procurement systems as well as to carry out procurement tasks under programs financed by
Government and the MDTF funds. The challenge for the donors and the GoSS is to put in place
mechanisms that will ensure Government and Donor resources are used properly (achieve value for
money) for the intended purposes with due care to economy and efficiency. Such mechanisms must
also guard against the highly potential risk of corruption which could scheme off a lot of public
funds and undermine the reconstruction and development programs.

3.      The World Bank as Administrator of the MDTF has established a Monitoring Agent for
monitoring procurement and expenditures on MDTF programs to ensure that funds are disbursed
only for the purpose intended and in accordance with acceptable accounting, financial reporting
and auditing standards. The Monitoring Agent will report to the Bank and be responsible for: (i)
pre-screening and monitoring procurement, including progress on on-going contracts; (ii) pre-
screening and recommending withdrawal applications to ensure that payments are consistent with
the Grant Agreement and eligibility criteria; (iii) monitoring expenditures financed from the
MDTFs, (iv) pre-screening the financial management capacity of potential grant recipients; and (v)
monitoring the progress made by grant recipients in achieving fiduciary benchmarks. In addition,
the Agent is expected to coach project staff on how to carry out properly any activities not working
well.

4.      A Procurement Unit has been established in MOFEP to oversee procurement tasks and a
Procurement Advisor financed by LICUS Trust Fund is assisting the Unit. A second Procurement
Specialist is expected to join the Unit soon. MOFEP is also advanced in recruitment of a
Procurement Agent to carry out procurement tasks under MDTF projects and other GOSS financed
contracts. The Ministry of Animal Resources and Fisheries (MARF) will benefit from the services
of the Procurement Advisor, the Procurement Specialist and the Procurement Agent. MARF is
expected to form a Procurement Committee and establish a Procurement Unit under the "Interim
Public Procurement Regulations".


                                                 42
Implementation Arrangements

5.       Procurement will be generally carried out by and/or as directed by the Procurement Agent,
but the CBIST in MARF will include a competent Procurement Specialist who will begin to carry
out specific procurement tasks under the project as well as build a Procurement Unit and capacity
in the Ministry. MARF will assign counterparts to work with and be trained by the Procurement
Specialist. It is expected that this mentorship approach will help develop the future MARF
procurement unit. Once the Unit is established, the Minister of Finance will designate the MARF as
a Procuring Entity, thus allowing it to process its procurement. More specifically, CBIST will
collectively carry out procurement work such as preparing annual work plans/budget, procurement
schedules of requirements, timing of needs, specifications, terms of reference for consulting
assignments, supervision of contracts, and the Procurement Specialist will carry out specific tasks
of the procurement process such as preparing bid and proposal documents, advertising, organizing
for evaluation s and reviews, documentation and record keeping, coaching staff etc. Procurement
capacity of MARF staff will be enhanced through seminars, workshops and round table
discussions. The use of various procurement methods and prior review thresholds are summarized
in Table A: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review.

Bank Guidelines and Standard Bidding Documents

6.       Procurement of goods, civil works and employment of consultants will be subject to the
provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 2004)" and
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (May 2004)". The Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all contracts procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) and Limited International Bidding (LIB). The Bank's SBDs will also
be used for contracts under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) with appropriate modifications.
The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) will be used for selecting consultants on the
basis of Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) and Least Cost Selection (LCS) methods. In the
case of small contracts for works and goods, and contracts procured with Community Participation,
simplified documents will be used with prior approval of the World Bank. Non-ICB and non-
QCBS contracts will follow the Government's Interim Public Procurement Regulations recently
approved by GOSS, which provide for institutional arrangements for decision making and approval
and managing of contracts, including payments.

Procurement of goods and works

7.      Procurement of works will involve rehabilitation and construction of MARF, State and
county buildings as well as laboratories, research centers, quarantine points, water points along
stock routes, slaughter houses, fish landing and processing facilities. Market infrastructure
construction/renovation contracts will be established on a `build and operate' basis.

8.       Procurement of goods will involve office equipment for MARF and five SDARF,
equipment for field veterinarians and Community Animal Health Workers (kits, vehicles, mobile
clinics, vaccines, cold storage units, etc.) and Community Fisheries Workers, laboratory and
research equipments and equipment for market infrastructure developed.

9.      International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for contracts estimated to cost
US$300,000 and above for works, and US$ 100,000 and above for goods. Pre-qualification of
contractors will be used for contracts estimated to cost US$ 10.0 million and above.



                                               43
10.    Limited International Bidding (LIB) may be used as alternative to ICB or NCB
procurement methods for goods in accordance with paragraph 3.2 of the Procurement Guidelines.

11.     National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be used for contracts below ICB thresholds
following GoSS Interim Public Procurement Regulations. Given the low capacity of the contractors
and suppliers in South Sudan, all contracts will be advertised nationally and regionally.

12.      Shopping (referred to as Selective Bidding in works contracts) may be used as alternative
to ICB and NCB for goods and works urgently needed, specialized goods and for all contracts
estimated to cost less than US$20,000 for goods and US$ 50,000 for works equivalent per contract.
The request for quotations shall be in writing and obtained from at least three suppliers. The
quotations would be opened same time. The request for quotations will contain the following:
technical specifications, drawings if needed, delivery time, payment conditions and any other
information that may be help the suppliers to prepare competitive offers.

13.      Procurement from UN agencies: Goods may be procured from the United Nations
agencies in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines, subject
to prior approval of the World Bank.

14.     Community participation in Procurement will be used as appropriate, in accordance with
paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines, through the application of simple methods of
procurement, to be specified in a "Community Participation" manual that will be agreed with the
Bank.

15.     Direct Contracting will be used in cases consistent with paragraph 3.6 of the Procurement
Guidelines.

Procurement of Services

16.      Procurement of Consulting Services will involve technical assistance to support MARF in
managing the project (CBIST and TST) and implement key components (policy work and training
by institutions, engineering services for works, and development of services to herders and fisher
folks through community-based activities by NGOs, survey and design for construction work by
engineering firms). Consultant services will include recruitment of private firms and public
institutions (such as research institutions, specialized private firms), Community Based
Organizations, NGOs and UN agencies which possess specific experience relevant for project
purposes.

17       Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) in accordance with Section II of the Consultants
Guidelines will be used for all major contracts under the project. Expressions of Interest will be
sought for all contracts expected to cost more than $200,000, in accordance with para. 2.5 of the
Consultant Guidelines, through advertising in UNDB online, in dgMarket, and in national and
regional newspapers or magazines. For assignments for which regional firms or organizations may
have a specialized expertise, this experience will be included in the evaluation criteria of the firms
that express an interest in competing for the assignment. For such assignments prior experience in
similar conditions as those prevailing in the Southern Sudan would be required as a criterion of
qualification. In cases where a Conflict of Interest may arise or the Eligibility of a firm or
organization to participate in the selection for an assignment is in doubt, according to the
provisions of paragraphs 1.9(c) and 1.11 of the Consultant Guidelines, the prior approval of the
Bank will be sought.



                                               44
18.     Least Cost Selection (LCS) may be used for assignments of a standard and routine nature
for auditing and engineering services up to a maximum of US$200,000 per contract.

19.     Selection based on Consultants Qualifications (CQ) may be used for assignments
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and for which the need for proposing and evaluating
proposals would not be justified.

20.     Single-Source Selection may be used for contracts on an exceptional basis for the selection
of consulting firms and individuals, in accordance with paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11 of the Consultant
Guidelines. The consultants to be chosen through Single-Source Selection will be identified in the
procurement plan, as much a possible, and are likely to include NGOs and other organizations with
working experience in South Sudan.

21.     Selection of Individual Consultants will be in accordance with paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the
Consultant Guidelines. A standard form of contract for individual consultants will be used, with
prior approval of the World Bank.

22.    Non consulting services will consist of participation in internal and external training and
workshops (including formal academic and professional training).

Prior Review Thresholds

23.      The following will be subject to Bank's prior review: (a) all contracts for goods equal to
US$100,000 and above and works equal to US$300,000 and above; (b) the first contract for goods
and the first contract for works under NCB; (c) all contracts awarded under Direct Contracting; (d)
all Terms of Reference (TOR); (e) all contracts for consulting services equal to US$100,000 and
above; (f) all contracts for individual consultants equal to US$ 50,000 and above; and (g) CVs for
all contracts with IC below US$50,000.

24.      All other contracts will be subject to post-review and procurement audit by the Bank. The
project staff will maintain accurate records of all procurement activities and documents related to
the Project. The procurement files will be maintained for review by the Bank's supervision
missions and independent auditing. The CBIST will also consolidate procurement activities into
Quarterly and Annual Progress Reports.

25.    Procurement Plan: MARF will prepare a detailed work plan/budget for Years 1 and 2
from which procurement schedules and a procurement plan will be prepared by negotiations for all
major contracts for goods and services, including selection of staff for the Project Implementation
Support Team. Thereafter, annual procurement plans will be prepared by MARF consistent with
annual work plans and budget. It is expected that for the major contracts, advance processing will
be done so that contracts would be signed as soon as the Grant Agreement is signed.

26.    Procurement Risk. Given the lack of procurement experience and adequate staffing in
MARF, and possible limited interest in bidding by foreign contractors and suppliers, the overall
procurement risk for the project is judged to be HIGH. On the other side, the presence of a
Procurement Specialist and the CBIST, the availability of a Procurement Agent to support project
procurement, the project is expected to guarantee reasonable implementation arrangements for
whole of its duration.




                                               45
27.     Frequency of Procurement Supervision: Bank supervision missions will be carried out
every 4 months in the first year and every 6 months thereafter. Two ex-post procurement review
audits will be done during the first year and from thereon at least once a year.

               Table A: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

Expenditure Category             Contract Value               Procurement                  Contracts Subject to
                                 Threshold                    Method                       Prior Review

1. Works                         US$300,000 and above              ICB                       All Contracts


                                  Below US$300,000                  NCB                       First contract

                                 Below US$50,000               Selective bidding              None
                                     All values                 Direct contracting            All contracts


2. Goods                         US$100,000 and above                  ICB                     All contracts

                                 Below US$100,000                      NCB                      First contract

                                 Below US$20,000                         Shopping              None
                                                                                           All contracts of US$100,00
                                 All values                      LIB                       and above

                                 All values                   Direct contracting           All contracts
3. Consultant Services 11

Firms                            All Values                   QCBS                         All contracts costing
                                                                                           US$100,000 and above

                                 Below US$200,000             LCS                          All contracts costing
                                                                                           US$100,000 and above

                                 Below US$100,000             CQ                           First three contracts

                                 All values                   Single source                All contracts

Individual Consultants           US$50,000 and above             Individual consultants         All contracts

                                 Below US$50,000                 Individual consultants         CVs

                                 All values                      Single source                  All Contracts




11
 TORs for all contracts regardless of method of selection and value would be subject to prior review by the
World Bank.


                                                  46
47
                    Annex 8: Detailed Financial Management Arrangements
              Southern Sudan: Livestock and Fisheries Development Project

1.       An assessment of the proposed financial management and disbursement arrangements has
been carried out in accordance with the Financial Management Practices Manual issued by the
Financial Management Board on November 3, 2005. The objective of the assessment is to
determine: (i) the extent of preparedness by the Grant recipient's implementing agencies with an
acceptable financial management arrangement and a robust system, which will ensure that: (i) the
project funds are used for intended purposes only in an efficient and economical manner; (ii) there
is capability to generate accurate, reliable and timely periodic financial reports; and (iii) the entity
and project assets are safeguarded. In the event such a system is not in place, it is necessary to
develop a realistic time-bound action plan for strengthening the financial management system in
readiness for project implementation.

PFM System

2.      The MoFEP for the GoSS (the recipient of the grant) and the implementing ministry -
MARF - were established in late October 2005. Both Ministries are in the process of being
functional. Some key positions in MARF have been filled but more needs to be posted. There is
no prior Bank experience with MARF, including a history of audit compliance.

3.       The only existing assessment of the public financial management system was carried out as
part of the JAM and concluded that the entire public financial management system needed to be
built from the ground up. Since the JAM assessment, there have been several significant
developments:

     ·   UNICEF, USAID and the World Bank have provided support for public financial
         management. In particular, UNICEF's Capacity Building Trust Fund (CBTF) which is
         disbursed through KPMG as the FM Agent has met pressing expenditures. USAID has
         supported PFM capacity building activities, including acquisition of an off-the-shelf IFMIS
         system (Freebalance) that is now operational in Nairobi. The World Bank through the
         Low Income Countries under Stress (LICUS) Trust Fund has provided equipment and
         three advisors in PFM, Procurement and Civil Service Reform.
     ·   All CBTF transactions are booked in the Freebalance system. Although four SOFEP
         employees have received training in Freebalance, GoSS transactions are still to be booked
         through the IFMIS system.
     ·   A World Bank administered MDTF has been established and Price-Waterhouse-Coopers
         (PWC) has been appointed as the Monitoring Agent (MA).
     ·   Oil revenues have accrued to the GoSS, and these revenues have now started flowing to the
         south. Some book-keeping efforts are underway to account for the utilization /
         management of these revenues.
     ·   On the Human Resources side, the transfer to Juba and the availability of more experienced
         accounting staff there is expected to improve the skill level of GoSS staff.
     ·   Commercial banking facilities are beginning to develop with the Nile Commercial Bank
         opening its first two branches in South Sudan, outside of Juba.

4.       Some of the challenges facing public financial management system in South Sudan are:

     ·   GoSS is hardly one year old, and its structure therefore barely established;


                                                 48
     ·   there is hardly any accountancy capacity in the local civil service;
     ·   absence of basic infrastructure to support a robust and integrated financial management
         information system;
     ·   lack of dependable budgetary process with track record of allocating and tracking public
         funds from internal and external sources; and
     ·   absence of public oversight institutions of accountability to ensure governance and
         transparency are upheld to a reasonable standard.

Accounting Policies and Procedures

5.       The following describes the basis of accounting, currency and the chart of accounts:

     ·   Basis of Accounting: MDTF resources will be accounted for by the Project on a cash
         basis. This will be augmented with appropriate records and procedures to track
         commitments and to safeguard assets.
     ·   Currency: Accounting records will be maintained in US Dollar. Local currency based
         transactions will be translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date the expenditure is
         incurred.
     ·   The Chart of Accounts: will facilitate the preparation of relevant monthly, quarterly and
         annual financial Statements, including information on the following:

             o   total project expenditures
             o   total financial contribution from each financier
             o   total expenditure on each project component/activity, and
             o   analysis of that total expenditure into civil works, various categories of goods,
                 training, consultants and other procurement and disbursement categories.

6.       Fixed Assets Register: The PAA will prepare and regularly update a Fixed Assets
Register, showing the asset identity reference, cost, date of purchase and location of the assets. The
register should also show the estimated economic useful life of the assets and, where possible, the
estimated replacement cost at the end of the economic life and residual value if any. The register
must be up dated regularly with new entries, movements between locations and disposals as they
occur.

7.      Contracts Register: A Contracts Register will also be maintained for all contracts with
consultants and suppliers. The PAA will prepare Contract Status Reports quarterly. Control
procedures over fixed assets and contracts with consultants and suppliers/vendors will be
documented in the PIM.

8.      Annual financial Statements will be prepared in accordance with IAS. All accounting and
control procedures will be adequately documented.

Planning and Budgeting

9.       Cash budget preparation will follow the procedures outlined in the PIM. Additionally,
financial projections or forecasts for the life of the project (analyzed by year) will be prepared. On
an annual basis, the MARF assisted by the PAA, will prepare the cash budget for the coming
period based on the work program. The cash budget should include the figures for the year,
analyzed by quarter. The cash budget for each quarter will reflect the detailed specifications for
project activities, schedules (including procurement plan), and expenditure on project activities



                                                49
scheduled respectively for the quarter. The annual cash budget will be sent to the World Bank at
least two months before the beginning of the project fiscal year. Detailed procedures for planning
and budgeting will be documented in the PIM.

Financial Management Arrangements

10.     Basic Principles: The fiduciary accountability systems being put in place will therefore
provide assurance regarding use of funds both from the GoSS and the MDTF.

11.     Institutional arrangements for PFM: In view of the high risk, weak capacity environment,
the overall fiduciary framework being put in place is outlined below. This is comparable to
fiduciary controls established in other post conflict environments.

    ·   The MA will monitor actual expenditures to ensure that funds are being utilized for the
        purpose intended. The MA will ensure that fiduciary standards are complied with, and
        report on all cases of non compliance.
    ·   KPMG, as the interim PAA, will be responsible for ensuring that reliable and robust
        accounting systems are in place to ensure proper accounting and reporting of transactions
        in accordance with International Accounting Standards. The PAA will take fiduciary
        responsibility for release of funds.
    ·   A Procurement Agent (PA) will be recruited to ensure procurement is conducted in a
        transparent and accountable manner, and as per MDTF requirements.
    ·   An External Audit Agent (EAA) will be selected through an international competitive
        recruitment process to provide an independent assessment of the reliability of the financial
        statements produced for the project. The EAA will undertake audits as per International
        Standards on Auditing.

12.      A Project Disbursement Unit (PDU) has been established in the Treasury of the Ministry of
Finance of GoSS. The unit would is staffed with a PAA providing computer assisted financial
management services for all projects, based on an IFMIS platform running on accounting software
called `Freebalance' and offer clearly defined service standards to the various implementing
agencies. The service standards have been incorporated into the each of the MOU between the
PDU and individual implementing agencies.

13.      The PDU is part of the GoSS Treasury, with responsibility for accounting for project
related funding. It is understood that GoSS is separately seeking external assistance for developing
the core treasury functions, including the overall budget formulation and budget execution process.

14.     GoSS is in the process of recruiting a PAA through an international competitive selection
process. Since the recruitment process will take time, GoSS proposed that, in the interim, KPMG
discharge these duties. KPMG was selected by GoSS on the fo0llwoing considerations: (i) it is the
only major accounting firm that had set up an office for its operations in South Sudan, and (ii) it is
the FM Agent for CBTF since 2004. KPMG has already deployed its team for this assignment.

15.      For the longer term strategy, there are plans in place for recruiting the PA and the EAA.
Meanwhile, GoSS, with support of external development partners, will endeavor to put in place
structures and systems in key institutions to ensure accountability of public resources. In addition
to the above, under the LICUS Trust Fund, specialized support is being provided through a
Procurement Expert and a PFM Expert who have, until now, been focusing on the budget




                                                50
formulation process. Specialized experts are also to be contracted in for strengthening internal
controls and set up risk based internal audit function in the government.

16.     Detailed financial management procedures and internal control environment will be
provided in Financial Reporting and Monitoring section. Simplified monthly, quarterly and annual
reports will be prepared for the purpose of monitoring project implementation. The reports will be
submitted to the PMA, GoSS, MOFP and the World Bank. Detailed reporting procedures and the
format, contents and frequency of reports will be fully documented in the PIM.

    ·   Monthly: On a monthly basis, the PAA will prepare and submit the following reports to
        GoSS, PMA and the World Bank:
           o Bank Reconciliation Statement for each bank account;
           o Monthly Statement of cash position for project funds from all sources, taking into
               consideration significant reconciling items;
           o Monthly Statement of Expenditure(where applicable) classified by project
               components, disbursement categories, and comparison with budgets, or a variance
               analysis; and
           o Statement of Sources and Uses of funds (by Major Category/ Activity);

    ·   Quarterly: The following Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) will be prepared by the
        PAA on a quarterly basis and submitted to GoSS, PMA and the World Bank:
           o Financial Reports which include a Statement showing for the period and
                cumulatively (project life or year to date) inflows by sources and outflows by main
                expenditure classifications; beginning and ending cash balances of the project; and
                supporting schedules comparing actual and planned expenditures. The reports will
                also include cash forecast for the next two quarters.
           o Physical Progress Reports which include narrative information and output
                indicators (agreed during project preparation) linking financial information with
                physical progress, and highlight issues that require attention.
           o Procurement Reports, which provide information on the procurement of goods,
                work, and related services, and the selection of consultants, and on compliance
                with agreed procurement methods. The reports will compare procurement
                performance against the plan agreed at negotiations or subsequently updated, and
                highlight key procurement issues such as staffing and building Borrower capacity.
           o SOE Withdrawal Schedule listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
                disbursements by SOE based method, by reference number, date and amount.

    ·   Annually: The annual project financial Statements, which will be prepared by the PAA will
        include the following:
            o Statement of Sources and Uses of funds (by major Category/ Activity); ;
            o Statements reconciling the balances on the various bank accounts (including the
                Project Account) to the bank balances shown on the Statement of Sources and
                Uses of funds;
            o SOE Withdrawal Schedules listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
                disbursements by the SOE based method, by reference number, date and amount;
            o Notes to the Financial Statements.

17.     Indicative formats for the reports are outlined in the Bank's: (a) Financial Monitoring
Reports: Guidelines to Borrowers; and (b) the format will be fully documented in the PIM.




                                               51
Flow of Funds and Banking Arrangements

18.      A simplified fund flow arrangement has been planned for this project. There would be no
Special Account for this project. It is envisaged that there will be two project accounts opened for
the project. There will be pooling of the funds. One will be US Dollar Project Accounts in a
reputed and stable commercial bank in Nairobi and a second Project Account in local currency
located in a reputed and stable commercial bank in Juba. MDTF and GoSS contribution for the
project would be disbursed directly into the US Dollar Project Account in Nairobi. The size of the
initial deposits of funds into these accounts will be determined on the basis of an estimate of the
anticipated expenditures for a period of four months. If necessary this advance could be increased
on the basis of an estimate of the anticipated expenditures for a period of six months, on the basis
of assessment by the World Bank. The PAA / GoSS will be responsible for managing these
accounts, but MARF will incur expenditures under the project and initiate payments with all the
supporting documentation on the basis of which PAA will effect the payment to providers of
goods, works and services. The accounts will be replenished on a monthly basis to ensure the
project has sufficient cash flow for meeting eligible project expenditures in a timely manner. The
project will adopt traditional disbursement method based on the Statements of Expenditure (SOE).
To ensure that the project is provided with adequate cash flow, the PAA will prepare and submit
SOEs in support of periodic replenishment withdrawal applications. For large value payments of
amounts above the minimum direct payment threshold to a single payee, the GoSS in collaboration
with the PAA may request the World Bank to make direct payments to suppliers, contractors and
service providers from the MDTF (Project Grant) account. Technically, GoSS and the PAA may
also wish to use Special Commitment (SC) by opening irrevocable Letters of Credit with the US
Dollar commercial bank. However, for this facility to be useful to the project with respect to
procurement of goods, it will be important for the financing plan to be determined, which will
guide the proportion of funding to be met from MDTF Grant proceeds for this project. The
accounting for these payments would need to be reflected in the accounting records (accounting
books) of the project that will be maintained by the PAA on behalf of MARF. Withdrawal
applications for direct payment will be processed and submitted by the PAA in consultation with
GoSS where the authorized signatories are likely to be based.

                                          Flow of Funds


Direct payments for large
Contracts
                                                 MDTF Account


GoSS contributions

                                                 Project Account in US $ Nairobi
Payments in US $


                                                 Project Account in Local Currency in Juba



                                                 MARF ­ at HQ
Various institutions, NGOs
& contractors



                                              52
19.     The MDTF MA would monitor and report on the utilization of the entire project funds,
including the compliance with fiduciary standards complied with and the reliability of the FM
systems.

20.       The local currency project account to be located in a commercial bank in Juba will receive
funds from the US Dollar project account periodically. The amount to be transferred will be based
on estimated average cash forecast for local expenditures for a period of three months. The PAA
will be responsible for maintaining the records for all the transactions processed through this
account. The expenditures will however be processed in consultation with MARF, which will also
initiate the expenditures under the project to be paid either through this account or the US Dollar
account in the case of foreign expenditures falling below the direct payment threshold as well as
for the larger value individual transactions disbursed through the direct payment method.

21.      All the bank accounts will be reconciled with bank statements on a monthly basis by the
PAA. The bank reconciliation statements will be reviewed by designated officials, and identified
differences will be expeditiously investigated and resolved at the earliest time possible, and in any
event not later than the 20th for the following month. Any unexplained transaction or suspected
fraudulent transactions must be reported to the Task Leader and GoSS at the earliest opportunity.
Bank reconciliation statements will form part of the required documentation supporting the
monthly replenishment withdrawal applications. Details of the appropriate procedures and controls
will be documented in the PIM to be compiled and issued by the PAA. This manual will be used by
the PAA and GoSS for project implementation, to ensure that disbursements and fund flows are
carried out in an efficient and effective manner. The PMA will also use the PIM as a reference
document in its role of monitoring the implementation of the project.

22.      Detailed banking arrangements, including control procedures over all bank transactions
(e.g. cheque signatories, transfers, etc.); will be documented in the PIM.

23.     The grant will be allocated according to the expenditure categories as follows:

                    Allocation of Grant Proceeds to Expenditure Categories

                                                                        % of total Expenditures to
                                              Amount of the Grant       be financed by the Grant
                Category                    Allocated (in US Dollars)
(1) Civil Works                                    3,700,000                        30
(2) Consultants' Services, including                                                100
NGOs                                                11,500,000
(3) Training                                         2,800,000                      60
(4) Unallocated                                      2,000,000
TOTAL                                               20,000,000

Disbursement Arrangements

24.      Disbursement method: As stated above, it is proposed that the project will use SOEs as
basis for disbursement in addition to direct method and special commitments as the case may be.
The local currency account in a commercial bank in Juba will function as a secondary or subsidiary
account holding project funds for local expenditures.


                                               53
25.     In routine reporting of project implementation progress, FMR will be used for reporting
purposes. Such reports will be submitted to IDA within 45 days after the end of each reporting
period, which quarterly for the purpose of this project. Details will be contained in the PIM to
guide the process.

26.      Proper skills of handling withdrawal applications of various types will be provided through
training of PAA and also GoSS as needed during the initial phase of the project. Given the low
capacity situation in South Sudan, hand holding of GoSS by PAA and other agencies will be useful
in helping build local capacity over time.

Risk Assessment and Suggested Mitigation

27.       Strengths: The transition to the formation of a Government of South Sudan (GoSS) has
been relatively smooth. New institutional arrangements are being formalized in an organized and
efficient manner. The availability of substantial quantities of oil resources is a huge advantage if
they are used in an economically efficient, transparent and accountable manner. A particular area
of strength is the willingness of GoSS to interact effectively with the international community at
this formative stage so that lessons of good practices from Africa and elsewhere can be adapted
quickly to the situation in South Sudan. The contracting of a reputable international accounting
and monitoring agencies with experience of the Bank's financial procedures is a strength.

28.      Weaknesses: Institutional and governance capacity is weak, with basic PFM systems and
procedures still to be established. The lack of adequate HR capacity is critical as can be expected
in a post conflict situation. There is no familiarity with Bank procedures or guidelines. The
banking system is virtually non existent, increasing the challenge of establishing a payment
mechanism or entering into commercial transactions.

29.     Assessment: Given the weak institutional and governance structures, no prior Bank
experience with the proposed implementing entity or entities including a history of audit
compliance and low financial management capacity, the overall level of risk is rated as "High".

                                           Risk Assessment
                                       H            S M N    Risk Mitigating Measures
Inherent Risk
1. Country level:                                            As with other post conflict countries with weak capacity,
This risk has been assessed as being                         risk is being mitigated through an interim arrangement of
high since governmental level                                a framework of fiduciary agents and, to the extent
institutional arrangements are still                         possible, contracting out most of the implementation. The
evolving. There is weak capacity in                          MA will monitor all expenditures out of the MDTF, the
public financial management, in line                         PAA to manage the actual accounting and financial
with the weak overall civil service                          reporting, and the EAA to undertake the audit. Domestic
capacity. As this is a transition                            capacity is being built concurrently, through projects such
period, there are no clear financial                         as the Core Capacity Building Project, the Rapid Impact
regulations or accounting standards.                         Emergency Project (RIEP) which has been approved, that
The GoSS does not have a                                     will utilize both GoSS and MDTF resources and the
framework for annual external                                capacity building component of this project.
audits as yet.
2. Entity level:                                             The risk is being mitigated through the recruitment of
This risk has also been assessed as                          staff in MoFEP who has experience of implementing
being high. The MoFEP and MARF                               Bank funded projects. In addition, MARF will contract an
have just been established in                                international organization to provide a CBIST which



                                                54
                                               Risk Assessment
                                           H            S M N    Risk Mitigating Measures
October 2005; the MFEP has just                                  would have Procurement and Financial Management
begun to be familiar with financial                              experts who are familiar with the international standards
management system in the context                                 and the Bank's procedures. The MARF team along with
of International Accounting                                      MoFEP will closely monitor project implementation and
Standards (IAS). MARF has not                                    fiduciary compliance.
implemented any Bank or donor
financed projects in the past.
3. Project level:                                                Most of the project implementation is expected to take
This is undoubtedly a complex                                    place through private contractors / NGOs / and possibly
project, with six components, many                               UN agencies (OPS) procured through World Bank
of which are to be contracted out for                            Procurement Procedures.
implementation to different                                      Some project activities, such as, rehabilitation and
contractors / UN Agencies and                                    construction of market infrastructure and fisheries
NGOs. Effective contract                                         facilities will be phased in to allow for learning and
management will be critical to the                               testing the existing implementation and financial
success of this project.                                         management capacity.
                                                                 Prior to funds being paid through the MARF, a capacity
                                                                 assessment exercise would be carried out by the PAA to
                                                                 confirm that the minimum capacity for accounting for
                                                                 project funds exists
                                                                 A consultant will be contracted to certify all civil works
                                                                 before payments are made.
                                                                  Monitoring and evaluation of performance of the various
                                                                 contracted implementing agencies would be the
                                                                 responsibility of the CBIST which will measure
                                                                 performance against an agreed set of performance
                                                                 indicators.
                                                                 Three external advisors provided through the LICUS
                                                                 Trust Fund, attached to the MoFEP, for procurement,
                                                                 public financial management and civil service reform
                                                                 would also provide support for the effective
                                                                 implementation of this project.
                                                                 In addition MARF will recruit a financial management
                                                                 specialist with a strong back ground in capacity building,
                                                                 project implementation and monitoring and
                                                                 understanding of World Bank procedures.
Overall Inherent Risk                      
Control Risk
1. Budget:                                                       Sufficient support is being provided to ensure that the
Effective budget formulation and                                 budget formulation process is orderly and focuses on
execution is still a challenge. It has a                         national priorities. International TA is being provided to
risk rating of High. Although GoSS                               support the budget formulation process through the
prepared and approved a budget for                               Bank's LICUS Trust Fund as well as by USAID.
the six months October 2005 ­
March 2006, and from April ­                                     The PAA will put in place a mechanism to identify and
December 2006, the GoSS is yet to                                analyze variances using the Freebalance accounting
satisfactorily execute a budget. One                             software. Corrective actions will be implemented. Budget
risk element is the amount of                                    adjustments will be approved by the PAA.
funding that will go through the
budget. This is first time that MARF
will be handling funds or
maintaining accounts.
2. Accounting Policies and                                       Finalization of the project financial management manual



                                                    55
                                              Risk Assessment
                                          H            S M N    Risk Mitigating Measures
Procedures:                                                     will be one of the effectiveness conditions of the project.
GoSS is still to finalize its financial                         This is expected to be largely based upon similar manuals
policies and procedures. It is                                  adopted for other trust funds, which are consistent with
expected to do this in the next few                             Bank requirements.
months. The financial management
manual for this project has still not
been finalized and tested.
3. Internal controls and Internal                               Based upon the experience in other post conflict
Audit:                                                          countries, GoSS had been requested to consider
There is currently no internal audit                            contracting in capacity for supporting the effective
department in GoSS and internal                                 implementation of internal controls and internal audit. It
controls are weak since the financial                           has been agreed with GoSS that two experts will support
regulations have still not been                                 the Treasury in starting the process of building a robust
adopted and tested.                                             system of internal controls and internal audit for all
                                                                government ministries. For this project, internal audit
                                                                requirements will be satisfied through requiring the PAA
                                                                to provide capacity to ensure effective internal controls.
                                                                The first internal audit report is expected by October
                                                                2006.
4. Funds Flow:                                                  The risk of lack of adequate and or delayed counterpart
Transfer of oil resources on a                                  funding is expected to be mitigated through adequate
regular basis is in the process of                              budget being provided for this contribution on an annual
stabilizing. The accounting                                     basis. Effort will be made to agree with GoSS and ensure
arrangements for these resources are                            the contribution from GoSS is released upfront at the
being thought through. As                                       beginning of each fiscal year or at least semi annually.
competing demands build up for
GoSS budgetary resources, it is
possible that there could be delays
encountered in the availability of
counterpart funding.
5. Financial Reporting and                                      Having in place a robust project financial management
Monitoring:                                                     system will result in production of the required financial
This is an area of particular                                   reports. Capacity building efforts will have to be given
weakness, since reporting or                                    top priority at the MARF level to make this arrangement
accounting formats are neither                                  work. Using a PAA will assist in mitigating the risk at
finalized nor published.                                        national level.

6. Staffing:                                                    In the immediate term the human resources constraint
HR capacity to implement and                                    would be addressed through contracting out some
monitor the project implementation                              implementation and monitoring activities to institutions
is particularly weak both at the                                that have the capacity to implement adequate fiduciary
ministerial, state and county levels.                           controls. In the longer term, this challenge will be met
Integration of staff in Juba,                                   through capacity building initiatives utilizing GoSS's
attraction of nationals in other                                own resources with support from institutions such as the
countries and professionals from                                World Bank (Core Capacity Building Project) and
neighboring countries such as                                   agencies like USAID. Because of its importance as the
Uganda and Kenya will help                                      core human capital for the MARF, development of GoSS
alleviate the shortage in some                                  capacity will be a critical implementation and
critical skill areas, but severe gaps                           sustainability factor for the project.
are expected to persist for some
time.
7. External Audit                                               GoSS has agreed to contract out this service through
There is no external audit capacity                             retaining an External Audit Agent recruited through an



                                                   56
                                             Risk Assessment
                                         H            S M N    Risk Mitigating Measures
in South Sudan. The Auditor                                    international competitive bidding process with terms of
General is still to be appointed and                           references acceptable to the Bank. This is likely to take 4-
the Audit organization has still to be                         6 months.
established.
Overall Control Risk                                           The combined gradual incremental measures and capacity
                                                               building efforts along with institutional strengthening
                                                               operations in South Sudan will help create a control
                                                               environment sufficient to mitigate this overall risk.
Overall Risk rating                                            Incremental capacity building and institutional
                                                               strengthening will help mitigate the overall fiduciary risk
                                                               and ensure good governance practices.


Action Plan

30.      The following actions are to be implemented as specified.

S/N                              ACTION                                 By Whom                     By When
 1       Open Designated US Dollar Project Account and Local     PAA / GoSS                    Effectiveness
         Currency Project Account with reputable and stable
         commercial banks in Nairobi and Juba respectively
 2.      Demonstrate that the Project Implementation Manual      PAA / GoSS                    Within 6 months of
         (PIM) used by PAA is readily available                                                Effectiveness
 3.      Identification of External Audit Agency                 GoSS /PAA                     2nd Quarter after
                                                                                               effectiveness

Supervision Plan

31.     As this is a high risk project, it will be supervised on a six-monthly basis by a Bank
accredited FMS. Supervision activities will include review of SOEs; review of annual audited
financial statements and management letter as well as timely follow-up of issues arising; annual
review; participation in project supervision missions as appropriate; and updating the FM rating in
the Implementation Status Report.

Audit Arrangements

32.      Internal Audit. In view of the difficulty of establishing a robust and modern risk based
computer assisted internal audit function in GoSS, at the Ministry of Finance and Planning level, it
is considered exceptionally prudent for the PAA to hire contracted individuals specifically to play
this role, and report to GoSS and MOFP. The reports will be made available to World Bank
supervision missions and to EAA.

33.      External Audit. The Project's financial statements will be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (ISA) by an independent auditor. The audit reports and
financial reports will be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the end of the fiscal year. In
accordance with the audit policy, the auditor may issue a single comprehensive report indicating
his opinion on (i) the financial statements expressed in their succinct report, the auditors will be
asked to review in depth all expenditures and internal controls procedures used for their preparation
during the period under review, in order to express a separate opinion on them, (ii) the eligibility
and propriety of expenditures claimed using the SOE procedures; and (iii) The administration of


                                                  57
the cash assets of the project, i.e. bank accounts. In addition the auditor will be expected to prepare
Management Letters giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for
improvements in accounting records, systems, controls, risk prone areas, fraud risk and compliance
with financial covenants in the MDTF Grant agreement.

34.      It is the responsibility of GoSS to appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
GoSS is also responsible for: (i) preparing or cause the preparation of accurate and timely Project
financial statements in accordance with IAS; (ii) presenting the Project financial statements to the
auditor annually, and (ii) submitting to the Bank the audited Project financial statements together
with management letter and response thereto. To this end, GoSS will ensure that audit ToR's as
well as the auditors proposed that are satisfactory to World Bank. The suggested audit timetable is
as follows:

        ·   TOR and appointment of an independent audit firm acceptable to MDTF/World Bank
            by June 30, 2007.
        ·   Audit report to be submitted six months after the closing of the fiscal year.




                                                58
Map of Sudan




   59
