The World Bank                                               1818 H Street N.W.             (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT        Washington, D.C. 20433         Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                        U.S.A.                         Cable Address: INDEVAS
                                                                                      CONFORMED COPY

                                                                                         November 18, 2010


        H.E. David Deng Athorbei
        Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
        Government of Southern Sudan (GoSS)
        Juba, Sudan


                                   Sudan: Livestock and Fisheries Development Project
                                            (MDTF-SS Grant No. TF057638)
                                         Third Amendment to Grant Agreement
        Dear Sir:
                 We refer to the Grant Agreement (the Agreement) between the Government of Southern
        Sudan (the Recipient) and the International Development Association (IDA), as administrator of
        grant funds provided by various donors under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan
        (MDTF-SS), dated February 27, 2007 as amended. We also refer to your letter dated October 13,
        2010 requesting certain amendments to the Agreement. We are pleased to inform you that IDA
        agrees to your request and proposed to amend the agreement as follows:

                    1. Section 2.01 of the Annex to the Grant Agreement is modified to read as follows:

                    “2.01. Project Objectives and Description. The objective of the Project is to build
                    capacity of the public sector in Southern Sudan to fulfill its mandated role in
                    livestock and fisheries, and to promote continuity in provision of key services in
                    the livestock sector in five selected states of Southern Sudan.

                    The Project consists of the following parts:

                    Part A: Institutional Development and Capacity Building

                     Support to MARF and five SDARF, through: (i) capacity building of senior staff to
                    formulate policies, design appropriate legal instruments and set priorities;
                    (ii) preparation of implementation plans and budgets and coordination of service
                    delivery among partners; (iii) development of a monitoring an evaluation system to
                    measure the performance in the sector; and (iv) construction and refurbishing of
                    offices.

                    Part B: Improvement of Service Delivery for Animal Health

                     Strengthening the capacity of the community animal health workers and veterinary
                    pharmacists networks, through contracting of NGOs to develop livestock and fisheries
                    services, mainly at the local level, construction and equipping of laboratories,
                    expansion of training center, training of trainers, provision of drugs and cold chain
                    equipment.
         Part C: Support to Livestock and Fish Marketing

          Identify ways of Improving the marketing of livestock and fish products through: (i)
         carrying out a value chain study on selected livestock species; (ii) carrying out studies
         on the hides and skins subsector; (iii) construction of fishing gear outlets for
         fishermen cooperatives; and developing peri-urban poultry enterprises.

         2. The Closing Date at Section 3.03 of the Annex to the Grant Agreement shall
         read June 30, 2011.

        Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter of Amendment. Upon
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter of Amendment countersigned by you, this Letter of
Amendment will become effective as of the date of countersignature.

                                         Very truly yours,
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                     By: /s/ Ian Bannon
       Acting Director of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and Fragile States Cluster


AGREED:
GOVERNMENT OF SOUTHERN SUDAN


By /s/ H.E. David Deng Athorbei                          Date: December 15, 2010
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
