                        PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                  CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                                      <Date>
                                                                                    Report No.: AB6593
                                                     (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


Operation Name                          GM-Budget Support -DPL
Region                                  AFRICA
Country                                 Gambia, The
Sector                                  Central government administration (78%); Agricultural
                                        marketing and trade (22%)
Operation ID                            P123679
Lending Instrument                      Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                             THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GAMBIA
Implementing Agency                     EPARTMENT OF STATE FOR FINANCE AND
                                        ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
                                        Ministry of Finance
                                        The Quadrangle
                                        Banjul
                                        Gambia, The
                                        Tel: (220) 422-3301
                                        serigncham@yahoo.com
Date PID Prepared                       May 12, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal             December 12, 2011
Estimated Date of Board                 February 16, 2012
Approval
Corporate Review Decision               Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                        proceed with the preparation of the operation.
Other Decision {Optional}               Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no
                                        other decisions are added

I.      Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
        The Gambia’s current national development strategy is articulated in its second Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP II), which covers the years 2007 to 2011.1 The main challenges
facing the country are presented in the PRSP II and organized under five “pillars”: (i)
macroeconomic stability and public sector reform; (ii) promotion of pro-poor growth and
employment through private sector development; (iii) improved basic social services; (iv)
decentralization and strengthened local governance; and (v) multisectoral programs on gender,
HIV/AIDS, environment, nutrition, and population. The Bank’s involvement aims contributing to
financing the gap between the total cost of activities identified in the action plan minus projected
government and donor contributions and savings from HIPC/MDRI debt relief.




1
 The first PRSP covered the years 2002 to 2005 and was presented to the Boards of IDA and the IMF in July 2002,
while the second PRSP was presented to the of IDA and the IMF Board in July 2008
II.     Proposed Objective(s)
        The Second Public Sector Reform and Growth (PSR&G II) Development Policy Grant
would aim at supporting the government in making progress toward key PRSP II objectives. It
would also aim at supporting the government in maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework
by providing additional external financing for the budget. A stable macroeconomic framework is
essential for achieving the economy’s growth potential and for achieving the poverty reduction
strategy outlined in the PRSP II. To achieve these objectives the operation would strengthen the
country’s public financial management and enhance the economy’s growth potential by
supporting measures to increase the efficiency of the energy sector, as well as to develop the
rural economy and encourage private sector participation in the telecommunications sector.

III.    Preliminary Description
        To support progress toward the PRSP II objectives, the second PSR&G development
policy grant would support specific policies under four broadly-defined components: enhancing
public financial management, removing bottle necks in the growth of the agriculture sector
management, strengthening energy sector management and designing a framework of private
sector participation in the telecommunications sector. Policy reforms under the first component
include establishing an IFMIS interface at the Central Bank, separate the policy and regulatory
functions of The Gambia Public Procurement Authority (GPPA), and disseminate information on
the execution of the budget. Policy reforms under the three other components of this operation
would aim at enhancing the economy’s growth potential by supporting measures to increase the
efficiency of the energy sector, as well as developing the rural economy and opening scope for
private sector participation in the telecommunications sector. In the energy sector, the operation
would aim at reducing payment arrears to the National Electricity and Water Company
(NAWEC) and introduce policies and procedures to stem the further build up of these arrears.
Special attention will also be given to improving the financial performance of the National
Agriculture Research Institute (NARI), so that additional funding being provided by ongoing
World Bank operations can flow to needed investments in agriculture research and extension.
Finally, this operation would support the establishment of a framework for private sector
participation in the telecommunications sector, aiming at aim having the expanded international
gateway created by the ACE cable be exploited by a plurality of competing operators and not
become a bottleneck for monopolistic and discriminatory behavior.

IV.     Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects
        The reform measures supported by the proposed Grant are expected to have a significant
positive direct poverty and social impact. The strengthening of public financial management is
expected to improve the government’ capacity to more effectively manage its resources and
deliver public services. The focus of government interventions in the agriculture on research and
extension would provide the opportunity for increased agricultural production to meet rising
domestic demand through the adoption and the adaptation of new planting techniques aimed at
achieving higher yields per area planted. The strengthening of the government management of
the energy sector is expected to allow an improvement in NAWEC’s financial health, opening
scope for the company to carry out needed investments in transmission and distribution, with a
view of reducing current system losses and increase service delivery. Finally, broadening access
to the ACE system to the private sector is expected to relieve tax payers from funding
commercial investment and, in this context, expand public access to telecommunication services.
V.      Environment Aspects
        The proposed operation has been rated a development policy credit, requiring that the
program document identify possible negative environmental outcomes arising from activities
supported by the leading operation. There might be some beneficial effects arising from actions
aimed at strengthening the management of the agricultural sector, however. These beneficial
effects include additional resources to fund technological solutions for producers and for
informing policymakers on options for sustainably increasing agricultural productivity while
protecting the country’s environment and natural resource base. These benefits are important
because the team working on the preparation of this operation acknowledges that The Gambia is
aware of the importance for poverty reduction to meet the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs) of ensuring environmental sustainability. The Gambia is also aware of the cross-
sectoral nature of the environment and its direct and indirect linkages to economic growth and
poverty reduction agenda, which have been taken into account in the preparation of the PRSP II.
The PRSP builds on The Gambia’s environmental institutional framework and capacity to set,
regulate environmental management standards. The main government agencies responsible for
environmental management are the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Ministry of
Agriculture (MoA). The framework that guides the operations of these agencies are set in the
Gambia Environmental Action Plan (GEAP), which was adopted by the Cabinet in 1992, and
updated in 2009 in the GEAP Phase II. While there is currently no permanent structure for
monitoring environmental indicators, the environmental indicators for water and sanitation were
fully developed by the Health authorities, and are being monitored for the MDG Progress
Reports.


VI.    Tentative financing
Source:                                                                           ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                  0
IDA Grant                                                                           7
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                                   Total

VII. Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Carlos B. Cavalcanti
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: (202) 458-9076
Fax:
Email: Ccavalcanti@worldbank.org
Borrower
Contact: Mod A. K. Secka
Title: Permanent Secretary I, Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
Tel: 220-996-7820
Email:


VIII. For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
