                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                     March 23, 2012
                                                Report No.: AB7014
                                              (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


 Operation Name                     GM-Budget Support -DPL
 Region                             AFRICA
 Country                            Gambia, The
 Sector                             Central government administration (60%); Agriculture,
                                    Education, Energy and Telecommunications (40%)
 Operation ID                       P123679
 Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
 Borrower(s)                        THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GAMBIA
 Implementing Agency                MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
                                    Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
                                    The Quadrangle
                                    Banjul
                                    Gambia, The
                                    Tel: (220) 9967-8220
                                    Msecka40@hotmail.com
 Date PID Prepared                  March 20, 2012
 Estimated Date of Appraisal        March 20, 2012
 Estimated Date of Board            May 31, 2012
 Approval
 Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                    proceed with the preparation of the operation.

       Country and Sector Background

The Gambia is a small West African country with an average per capita GDP of US$450 in
2011 (Atlas Method) and a 2010 Human Development Index ranking of 151 th out of 178
countries. The overall poverty headcount index is estimated at 48.4 percent (UNDP 2011), and
36.7 percent (at the US$ 1.00 poverty line), down from 58.0 percent estimate for the upper
poverty line (US$1.25), and 51.2 percent for the lower poverty line (US$1.00) estimated at the
time of the 2003 Integrated Household Budget Survey (IHS). There are large regional variations
of poverty within The Gambia., with urban areas recording a much lower poverty headcount
(32.7 percent) when compared with rural areas (73.9 percent) using the $1.25 poverty line, with a
similar gap when the U$1.00 poverty line is used -- 21.0 percent for urban areas and 62.1 percent
for rural areas.

The country has pursued economic reforms aimed at modernizing the operations of the
state in a difficult external environment, with slow growth in the developed world, and food
and crude oil price shocks. The government’s current reform agenda aims at sustaining
economic growth and at increasing transparency in public finances and ensuring greater
accountability in public administration. As detailed in the Government’s Programme for
Accelerated Growth and Employment (PAGE), whatever is achieved next builds on progress
made earlier in areas ranging from the strengthening of public financial management to
reforming public administration in the the agriculture, education, energy and telecommunications
sectors.

To achieve the objectives of the proposed operation several actions aimed at increasing
transparency and accountability in public financial management, at improving public
management in agriculture, education and energy and at promoting private sector
participation in telecommunications. In public financial management it supports (i) the
establishment of the IFMIS interface at the Central Bank of The Gambia; (ii) the finalization of
the government financial accounts for 2008, 2009 and 2010; (iii) the posting of the IFMIS
reports on the website of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs; (iv) the appoints of the
judges to the Tax Tribunal; (v) the approval of the Internal Audit Committee charter and the
appointment of the members of the Internal Audit Committee; (vi) the validation of the HR
records in the IFMIS payroll; (vii) approval of increase funding for the Ministry of Agriculture in
the 2012 budget; (viii) the reduction in arrears by the central government to the National Water
and Electricity Company (NAWEC); (ix) the licensing of the Gambia Submarine Cable
Company Limited (GSCC Ltd.); and the signing of Service Level Agreements (SLAs) between
the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education, its regional directorates and the head-teachers in
basic and secondary schools.

       Rationale for Bank Involvement

There has been good progress in completing the proposed prior actions for this policy-
based grant. Seven prior actions have been met already: (i) the IFMIS interface at the Central
Bank of The Gambia is operational; (ii) the IFMIS budget reports are being regularly posted on
the website of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs; (iii) the Service Level Agreements
(SLA) agreements between the head-teachers of Primary and Secondary schools and the Ministry
of Basic and Secondary Education were signed; (iv) additional funds for agriculture were
assigned in the 2012 budget (v) central government arrears to NAWEC have declined; (vi) the
government has appointed the judges to the Tax Tribunal; and (vii) the Internal Audit Committee
charter was approved and the members of the Internal Audit Committee were appointed. Also,
progress is within reach for three other prior actions: (i) the finalizing the 2008-2010 government
financial statements; (ii) the validation of the HR records in the IFMIS; and (iii) the licensing of
the Gambia Submarine Cable Company Limited (GSCC Ltd.).

The Bank’s continuing involvement has been critical for The Gambia because of its
support to the government’s ongoing reform drive and comes at a particularly important
time with the recent announcement of the 2011/12 crop failure. Late, erratic and unevenly
distributed rainfall during the 2011/12 cropping season led to a significant decline and to the low
quality of agricultural production. The overall crop production is estimated have declined by 62
percent compared to 2010, with the food and cash crops for rice (down 74 percent), millet (down
54 percent) and groundnut (down 64 percent) amongst the most affected. The 2011-2012 crop
failure is a major blow to the Gambian economy, which over the last few years had shown a
remarkable resilience by diversifying its sources of growth. Real GDP growth averaged just
over 5.0 percent during the 2008-2011 period, compared to a 4.0 percent average during the
preceding 3 years.
      Tentative financing

Source:                                                                            ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                   0.0
IDA Grant                                                                            6.0
Borrower/Recipient                                                                   0.0
IBRD                                                                                 0.0
Others (specifiy)
                                                                    Total           6.0

      Tranches (if applicable)

                                                                                   ($m.)
First Tranche                                                                        6.0
Second Tranche                                                                       5.0
Total                                                                               11.0


      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

 The existing institutional structure for the implementation of the Government’s
 Programme for Accelerated Growth and Employment (PAGE) process is proposed to be
 used to implement and monitor the policy reforms supported by the proposed Grant. It is
 proposed that a Cabinet subcommittee, the High Level Economic Committee (HILEC), will
 provide overall guidance for the budget support program, and that the Ministry of Finance and
 Economic Affairs (MoFEA) will assume overall responsibility for coordinating the
 implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Policy Matrix. It will be ultimately
 responsible for reporting progress and coordinating actions among other concerned ministries
 and agencies, as identified in the Government’s Policy Matrix.

 It is also proposed that the government and the development agenciess providing budget
 support will jointly conduct annual reviews of the implementation of the Policy Matrix.
 These reviews will be used to monitor reform actions, evaluate the impact of the reforms on the
 development objectives, and discuss strategic adjustments to the Policy Matrix taking into
 account the latest country developments, stakeholder support and alternative options for
 realizing the intended development objectives. The reviews will be based on the reform
 measures and outcome indicators outlined in the Policy Matrix. Even after the disbursement of
 the first tranche for this operation, IDA plans to continue participating in the annual reviews
 with a view to prepare the second operation under this series, to coordinate support to the
 government and to participate in the policy dialogue.
       Risks and Risk Mitigation


There are relatively significant risks to the proposed operation, although risk mitigating
strategies have been identified:

The main risks associated with the proposed operation are: (i) the government’s limited
institutional capacity to implement the reform agenda; (ii) macroeconomic slippages and
inadequate adjustments to exogenous shocks; (iii) weak governance; and (iv) difficulties in
sustaining reforms in the agriculture, energy and telecommunications sectors.

The risks associated with low institutional capacity are mitigated by a reform agenda that is
built on an ongoing policy dialogue and supported by either ongoing or forthcoming IDA
projects. In addition, the government will continue to receive support for capacity building
through various other donor projects, including projects supported by the AfDB, EC, IMF,
UNDP and the WFP.

With respect to macroeconomic risks, the government has so far carried out prudent
measures in response to recent external shocks and continues to maintain a dialogue with
the development partners on appropriate policy responses and the possible need for augmented
concessional external aid in the form of grants. Furthermore, macroeconomic risks would be
mitigated by close monitoring and coordination by IDA, IMF and other donors. The need for
external borrowing would be reduced by increased grant resources provided through the
proposed operations by AfDB and IDA, as well as other proposed AfDB and IDA operations.

The country’s weak governance could be further strengthened by enhancing the
transparency and accountability of the public sector. To mitigate the governance risk, several
prior actions for this operation seek to defined institutional arrangements that enhance
transparency and accountability in public sector procedures and promote private sector
investment and participation. The support and participation of the AfDB and IDA in the
implementation of the Policy Matrix also contributes towards building political commitment to
reforms.

Difficulties in sustaining reforms in agriculture, energy and telecommunications sector will
be mitigated by extensive consultations with both public and private stakeholders in these sectors
aiming at ensuring country ownership, alignment of reform measures with the government’s
sector strategy and additional complementary investment support provided by IDA and the
AfDB.

       Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

The reform measures supported by the proposed Grant are expected to have positive
poverty and social impacts. The strengthening of public financial management is expected to
improve the government’s capacity to more effectively manage its resources and deliver public
services. The focus of government interventions in the management of information from
agriculture and the allocation of public resources in this sector should also help maximize the
poverty impact of these interventions. Similarly, the strengthening of the government
management of the energy sector is expected to allow an improvement in NAWEC’s financial
health, opening scope for the company to carry out needed investments in transmission and
distribution. These investments would aim at reducing current system losses and at improving
service delivery. Finally, broadening access to the ACE system to the private sector is expected
to reduce the cost telecommunication services and expand public access to telecommunication
services.

The specific reforms supported by the proposed Development Policy Grant are not likely to
have significant negative effects on The Gambia’s environment. The priority environmental
challenges in the country include deforestation, desertification, erosion and salinization of tidal
lands far upriver. The economic governance reforms supported by the proposed operation are
unlikely to affect these problems.

The main government agencies responsible for environmental management are the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA). The
Gambia Environmental Action Plan - GEAP - was adopted by the Cabinet in 1992, and was
updated - GEAP Phase II - and validated by all key national stakeholders, including government,
civil society and private sector, before being adopted by the Cabinet early in 2009. There is
currently no permanent structure of the monitoring environmental indicators to enable one to
determine changes and trends. The environmental indicators for water and sanitation are
however fully developed by the Health authorities, and they are being monitored for the MDG
Progress Reports. Government actions in the environment sector are guided by priorities clearly
spelt out in sectoral policies and action plans.


        Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Carlos B. Cavalcanti
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: (202) 458-9076
Fax:
Email: Ccavalcanti@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact: Mod A. K. Secka
Title: Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
Tel: (220) 9967-8220
Email: msecka40@hotmail.com

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
