Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3098-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED NINTH LOAN
TO THE
BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
June 22, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00 = DH5.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE     Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
CCG      Caisse Centrale de Garantie
CMPE     Centre Marocain de Promotion des Exportations
EEC      European Economic Community
EIB      European Investment Bank
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
ITC      International Trade Center
LIBOR    London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
ODI      Office pour le Developpement Industriel
PPAR     Project Performance Audit Report
SSI      Small Scale Industry
TAU      Technical Assistance Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINDGOM OF MOROCCO
NINTH BNDE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique (BNDE).
*             Guarantor:         The Kingdom of Morocco.
Amount:           US$70 million equivalent.
Terms:            The amortization schedule would be substantially the
aggregate of the amortization schedules of the sub-loans,
with interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
Relending Terms; The proceeds of the loan would be relent at an effective
interest rate of 10 percent per annum, which includes a 2
percent interest rebate. Subloans would have to be fully
amortized within 15 years after signature of the proposed
loan, and would have grace periods of up to 4 years. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the loan.
Project
Description:      The project consists of a line of credit to BNDE, of which up
to $56 million would help finance the estimated foreign
exchange cost of projects in industry in general, and at
least $14 million would go to export-oriented industrial
projects. The loan will support the Government's industrial
program, particularly the drive for rapid growth of the
export sector. It will also assist BNDE in stabilizing the
terms and conditions of its resources. The loan finally has
a specific focus on strengthening organizational aspects of
BNDE in the field of appraisal, portfolio monitoring, and
export promotion.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                  $ Million
Bank FY       1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Annual:       4,830  21,280  22,820  13,370   6,090   1,610
Cumulative:  4,830  26,110  48,930  62,300  68,390  70,000
Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 3407a-MOR, dated June 2, 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
NINTH LOAN TO THE BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
ECONOMIQUE WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
ninth loan to the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique (BNDE),
to be guaranteed by the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$70.0
million, to help finance efficient medium and small projects. At least
$14.0 million of the loan would be for efficient export-oriented projects.
The proposed loan would have an amortization schedule conforming
substantially to the aggregate of amortization schedules applicable to the
subloans, with a maximum of 15 years. Subloans would carry an effective
interest rate of 10 percent per annum, taking into account a 2 percent
interest rebate provided by Government, and would have to be repaid over at
most 15 years from signature of the proposed loan, with a grace period of up
to 4 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A report
entitled "Morocco: Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1980. Country and Economic Data Sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed
with natural resources. It has a considerable agricultural potential both
in irrigated and rainfed areas. The Atlantic and the Mediterranean
coastlines offer considerable fish resources. Morocco also has the world's
largest and most easily recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the
phosphate sector a key export sector. Other minerals such as iron ore,
manganese, lead and zinc are also exported, but in much smaller amounts.
Coal and hydropower plants satisfy only a small part of the country's energy
requirements, which are essentially met with imported oil. Morocco has
however uranium and oil shale resources which it plans to exploit. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco. GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. Growth accelerated somewhat under
the 1968-72 development plan as the economy derived substantial momentum from
1/ This part is an updated version of Part I of President's Report No.
P3061-MOR of May 6, 1981 on a proposed loan for a Third Water Supply
Project.



exports. However, a relatively weak savings effort and a small externally
financed resource gap resulted in only a slow rise in the share of resources
allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s with no major
financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity. Although some
industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor force was employed
in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural sector, and primary
products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise exports, with phosphates
representing about a quarter of the total.
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic policy became more ambitious.  The 1973-77
Development Plan aimed at an acceleration of economic growth, as well as an
improvement in income distribution. To accomplish this, the original plan
strategy included two key elements: an intensified savings effort and the
development of exports. However, in 1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate
prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled. As a result of this
windfall, the value of merchandise exports doubled and budgetary receipts rose
by 70% between 1973 and 1974. Although the petroleum import bill also
quadrupled in 1974, the current account of the balance of payments remained in
surplus. The plan's concern for exports and savings lost some of its urgency,
and the Government launched a massive public investment program which brought
about a sharp acceleration in the rate of growth of the economy and a
considerable increase in demand for imported goods and services, whose share
in GDP doubled from 19% in 1972 to 39% in 1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived; as early as mid-1975,
phosphate exports started falling in both volume and value, and prices
continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well as for
tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the world
recession and restrictions imposed by the EEC. Agricultural production and
exports entered a period of prolonged stagnation, and Morocco turned from a
net exporter to a net importer of foodstuffs. As a result of all these
factors, the growth of exports of goods and nonfactor services, which in
constant prices had exceeded 8% a year in 1968-72, was only 1% a year in
1973-77.
7.       Stimulated by the high investment level, a high GDP growth rate of
7.3% a year was achieved during the 1973-77 plan period. This growth was led
by the expansion of the construction and service sectors. The pattern of
investment, however, favored economic and social infrastructure more than the
productive sectors. In addition, public investments in industry, agriculture
and transport tended to be capital intensive and to emphasize import
substitution.
8.       Accelerated investment and growing public expenditures created strong
pressures on both the balance of payments and the Government budget. While
investment jumped from about 15% of GDP in the early 1970s to 32% in 1977,
gross domestic savings rose briefly from 13% of GDP in 1972 to 21% of GDP in
1974 thanks to phosphate receipts, but fell back to 10-11% in 1976-77.  The
large resource gap which emerged as early as 1975 rose to an unsustainable 20%



of GDP in 1977 (in current prices). To help finance the gaps, Morocco
borrowed heavily from the international capital market, which led to rapid
increases in external debt and the debt service burden. By the end of 1977,
external debt outstanding was close to 40% of GDP. The debt service ratio
rose from 5.6% of exports of goods and services in 1975 to 10.7% in 1977, and
18.5% in 1978.
9.       The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. While budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and of
the growth of import duties and taxes in following years (reaching 23% of GDP
in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues. Total
budgetary outlays rose from 20% of GDP in 1972 to nearly 42% in 1977, in
response to a number of pressures. These included not only the large scale
public investment launched under the plan, but also the rapid increase in
defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western Sahara, and
the acceleration of current expenditure for social programs (particularly
education). As a result, the Government's overall budget deficit increased
sharply, reaching peaks of 17 and 18% of GDP in 1976 and 1977. The
expansionary monetary and fiscal policies pursued during the period led to
some acceleration of domestic inflation, but excess demand was largely allowed
to spill over into the external sector.
Recent Developments
10.      In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import levels.
In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was cut back by
nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetary expenditure held
down to about 13% (or less than 3% in real terms). These measures of fiscal
restraint were combined with tight credit policies and stringent import
controls. As a result, the overall budget deficit declined to about 12% of
GDP and the external payments situation improved in 1978. Since then,
however, the stabilization program encountered a number of obstacles,
including poor harvests, petroleum price increases and the rise in interest on
the commercial debt. In addition, internal pressures led to some relaxation
of the highly restrictive fiscal policy adopted in 1978. Although the economy
continued to make slow progress toward equilibrium, by 1980 both fiscal and
external imbalances were still substantial. The resource gap (in current
prices) remained at about 10% of GDP and the ratio of the overall budget
deficit to GDP at about 11%.
11.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period was
achieved chiefly through cutbacks in the level of budgetary investments, which
dropped from 22% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980. The growth of current
expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the continuing need to
maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing interest payments on the
public debt and the rising cost of consumption subsidies. The latter tripled
in 1979-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price increases for subsidized staple food
and petroleum products could not catch up with the rise in import costs for
these products. Reflecting these pressures, the growth of current



expenditure accelerated to 16% of GDP in 1979 and 22% in 1980. Substantial
increases in domestic prices of food and petroleum products in late 1980 and
early 1981 should now make it possible to contain consumption subsidies in
1981. With the help of economies in other areas, the Government's plan is to
hold the growth of current outlays in 1981 to 11%, above the 1980 level.
12.      In the external sector, non-oil imports were reduced substantially
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction in
capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977 and
1980). Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due to
price increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and 1980 and received a
significant boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in 1980. Thus,
despite a large increase in the petroleum import bill (from less than $400
million in 1977 to $1 billion in 1980) and a rise in external debt interest
payments by about $350 million between 1977 and 1980, the current account
deficit was reduced from $1.8 billion, or 18% of GDP, in 1977 to about $1.4
billion, or 8% of GDP, in 1980. The growth of external borrowing slowed
considerably during the period. However, the absolute level of gross external
capital requirements rose because of growing amortization payments on
medium-term commercial credits contracted earlier and the rise in the interest
rate on these credits in 1980 (paragraph 21).
13.      The budgetary and balance-of-payments constraints had a serious
impact on the levels of investment and economic activity in 1978-80. Annual
GDP growtb dropped to about 3% in both 1978 and 1979. In 1980, GDP growth is
estimated to have risen to about 6%, largely because of favorable weather,
increased exports and some recovery of investment in the private sector. The
adverse impact of the stabilization program on employment has probably been
substantial in contrast with the rapid rate of employment creation during
1973-77. On the whole, the demand management policies followed since 1978
have had a high cost in terms of growth and employment and appear to have been
only partly successful in their short-term stabilization objectives.   These
results brought out the urgent need to address adequately the long-term
structural weaknesses which are at the root of the continuing financial
imbalances in the Moroccan economy, and which must be corrected if an
acceptable rate of economic growth is to be achieved over the medium term
without unsustainable external deficits.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      Projectionsl' of the likely outcome of the continuation of past
policies without concerted effort to implement major structural reforms
suggest that Morocco would be faced with a prolonged period of slow growth,
rising unemployment and continued large external imbalances which would keep
the country in considerable dependence on external borrowing and could
jeopardize its creditworthiness. To forestall such a deterioration, the
Government adopted a strategy in the development plan for 1981-85 which aims
at narrowing the external resource gap while accelerating growth and spreading
1/ For details on these Bank projections, see Morocco - Basic Economic
Report, December 30, 1980 (No. 3289-MOR), Chapter III.



- 5 -
the benefits of growth more widely. The main objectives are to achieve a
significant increase in domestic savings and exports, a reduction in the
elasticity of imports with respect to GDP, and a rise in productivity and the
employment rate. The Plan's projections show that, if achieved, such changes
would permit a gradual acceleration of annual GDP growth to 6.5% p.a.,
somewhat higher than Bank projections, in 1981-85, accompanied by a reduction
of the resource gap to about 7% in 1985.
15.      The containment of imports would result in part from the substitution
of imports of food products (cereals, sugar, vegetable oil, meat and dairy
products) to be brought about by an acceleration of the rate of growtb of
agricultural production. This will require a wide range of institutional
reforms in addition to a review of prices of certain inputs and outputs, and a
greater allocation of resources to rainfed areas and to projects with high
rates of return. The Government also intends to follow a determined policy in
1981-85 in the area of energy conservation, including in particular
maintaining domestic energy prices at high levels, and making the necessary
investment allocations to increase energy production from local sources.
16.      An essential role in the achievement of the Plan's objectives will
have to be played by export promotion aimed at exploiting Morocco's
comparative advantage as regards phosphates and phosphate derivatives as well
as the current favorable export prospects for manufactured goods, agricultural
products and tourism. Exports of goods and nonfactor services are expected to
rise at 8.5% p.a. in real terms over 1981-85. While feasible, such a growth
rate would require implementation of the supporting investments and incentives
policies.
17.      Narrowing the resource gap while maintaining at the same time high
investment levels would require an increase in domestic savings as well as
rationalization of the pattern and content of investment. A vigorous recovery
in domestic savings, which would rise from 11.5% of GDP in 1980 to 16% by
1985, would make it possible to narrow gradually the resource gap from about
10% in 1980 to 5% of GDP by 1985. Such a rise in the domestic savings rate
would exceed the performance in 1973-77 when savings averaged 14% of GDP. It
would demand intensive efforts to increase public savings (through an increase
in budgetary savings and an improvement in the performance of public
enterprises) and to stimulate private savings (through a revision of interest
rates and improvements in financial intermediation).
18.      Given the feasible level of investment, the future rate of growth of
the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral allocation and the
efficiency of investment as well as institutional reforms. Under the Plan,
the Government will start fewer large capital-intensive projects and pay
particular attention to the allocation of investments to priority subsectors.
Priority is given to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive
and which use a greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition,
particular attention will be paid by the Government to manpower planning and
to the employment effect of investments in order to ensure that unemployment
does not rise.



-6-
Social Development
19.      Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970s were accompanied by widening income disparities. The limited data
available indicate that in the 1970s, while disparities continued to grow,
household incomes increased in both urban and rural areas, and the lower
income groups shared in the real increase in incomes. In addition, infant
mortality has declined and life expectancy has increased, both significantly.
More recently, partly in response to the demands of locally elected
assemblies, the Government has shown more awareness of social problems and
greater interest in the issue of basic needs. Social expenditures have been
at a high level in recent years, accounting for more than half current
outlays. However, social indicators still appear to be at low levels in
Morocco. The limited effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the
lower income groups, especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as
a major issue, and the new strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes
rural development in rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in
Morocco currently live, and improved mechanisms to deliver services to meet
basic needs at an affordable cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is
also being made to increase the involvement of local communities in providing
basic needs, particularly for sites and services for low cost housing, water
supply, sewerage and electrification. Although rapid results cannot be
expected in any of these areas, implementation of these policies would help
meet the needs of low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of
social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
20.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. Agreement was reached
with the IMF in 1980 for Morocco to draw on the Extended Fund Facility (EFF);
the agreement provided for the use of IMF resources in the amount of SDR 810
million over the 1980-83 period, an amount subsequently increased to SDR 956
million ($1.2 billion).
21.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly
to $7.2 billion (disbursed only) by December 1980. Gross inflow of medium and
long term capital reached $1.55 billion in 1980. Debt service amounted to $800
million in 1979 and $1.2 billion in 1980 (22% and about 28%, respectively, of
total exports of goods and services). The debt service rose considerably in
1980 due mainly to the steep rise in interest on commercial credits. As a
result of recent and projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to
average $1.5 billion annually in the early 1980s. The debt service ratio may
drop to about 25% or less by 1985, depending on the success of the Plan's
export drive, the containment of imports and the future developments in the
interest rates on commercial credits. Because of the growing burden of debt
service, external borrowing has become more restrictive and selective since
1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, Morocco will have to continue



- 7 -
this policy over the next few years. Limits on commercial borrowing have been
agreed within the framework of the Extended Facility arrangement with the IMF,
and efforts should be continued to seek loans on softer terms.
22.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to $1376 million in 1978. Since then,
they have averaged $700-800 million a year (excluding grants). Major sources
of aid were France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank
Group. At the end of 1979, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding
and disbursed external public debt was 8.4 percent. The share of the Bank
Group in debt service was 21 percent in 1976 and declined to 15 percent in
1977, and 8 percent in 1979. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt
outstanding and in debt service are projected at about 10 percent and 11
percent respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
23.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 50 projects,
financing a total of $1,694.9 million (net of cancellations), of wbich
$1,189 million has been lent since the beginning of FY1975. IDA credits,
totalling $50 million, have been made available for five projects. A Third
Window loan for $25 million for the third education project was approved in
March 1976. IFC investments have amounted to $29.1 million ($17.1 million
after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
April 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In
some cases delays in project implementation have been caused by management
problems and budgetary constraints; however, overall performance in project
execution has been improving and is satisfactory. Total disbursements as of
December 31, 1980, amounted to 63 percent of original appraisal forecasts,
and 71 percent of revised forecasts.
24.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 30 and 21 percent
respectively of total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities
(18 percent), tourism (10 percent), education (9 percent), roads (6
percent), energy (3 percent) and urban development (3 percent). While
limited as regards the transfer of resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross
disbursements amounted to 2.2 percent of total fixed investment during the
1973-77 Plan period), the main objectives of Bank lending in the early years
of Bank operations in Morocco were to foster and strengthen development
institutions, provide technical assistance, especially for project
preparation, and increase productive capacity, in order to improve the
balance of payments.



- 8 -
25.      While these objectives remain, over the last few years Bank lending
has increasingly focussed on supporting a number of policy objectives: to
promote exports and other foreign-exchange earning activities; to reduce
imports, particularly of food and energy; to lower unit costs for the
delivery of basic services, widen their distribution among regions and
increase access by lower-income groups; and to increase employment and
improve income distribution.
26.      Since FY1975, lending in agriculture has empbasized improvement in
the productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project, approved in June 1978, directly
addresses these objectives in the favorable cereal producing zone. The
Loukkos project, approved in May 1980, extends support of these objectives
to a less favorably endowed region and finances investments for agricultural
development, erosion control, forestry and livestock. It should have a
significant poverty impact and address major issues in developing Morocco's
relatively densely populated but poorly endowed mountainous regions.
Continued Bank support of rainfed agriculture is expected to be provided
through an extensive livestock project in central Morocco and an integrated
rural development project in the Khemisset province, both under
preparation. A fourth line of credit to CNCA has helped provide credit to
small and medium farmers, and a fifth project is under preparation.
Increased export earnings are expected to result from a Bank-supported
project for fruit and vegetable marketing and production, as well as from a
project currently under preparation to improve the efficiency of the coastal
fishing industry.
27.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings and, more recently,
job creation, have been the key objectives of Bank projects in industry and
tourism. A second line of credit for small scale industries with an
emphasis on job creation is being presented concurrently to the Board. A
fourth line of credit to CIH for tourism projects was recently approved by
the Executive Directors, in a sector which has contributed a substantial
share of Morocco's foreign exchange earnings and provided significant
employment. A project to increase the incomes of artisanal and small-scale
miners in southeastern Morocco, a region largely bypassed by previous
development efforts, is also scheduled to be presented to the Board shortly.
28.      Projects to improve basic infrastructure and services have
concentrated on improving the efficiency of existing investments and
extending services to rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban
development project was recently approved by the Board, which would continue
to support the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families. A third highway project approved
in FY1980 supported the Government's road maintenance efforts and a fourth
project now being prepared would continue support for maintenance and
improve rural access roads. A loan for village electrification approved in



- 9 -
FY1979 is helping bring power to over a hundred small towns and villages. A
third water supply project, recently approved, will provide access to safe
water in small towns and semi-rural areas, as well as expand a pilot
component initiated under the second project to provide credit for house
connections to low income urban families. In addition, a project to
strengthen the capacity of local communities to prepare and implement their
own development programs and provide financing for such programs through the
Communal Infrastructure Fund (FEC) is being prepared. It will not only help
to widen the distribution of infrastructure and services but will also
support the Government's policy of encouraging administrative
decentralization and local participation.
29.      Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. While recent projects have focussed on secondary level
technical education and teacher training, attention has also been given to
expanding basic education in the rural areas and ensuring a greater
orientation in primary schooling towards practical training. This would be
complemented by future projects in non-formal education and vocational
training. The Government's recent policy supporting primary health care
would be tested through a project currently being prepared as a first phase
in a nationwide program to reorganize medical and paramedical training,
health education, nutrition, environmental sanitation and family planning
services, especially in rural areas.
30.      In order to reduce the impact of the oil import burden on the
Moroccan economy, a project was approved in April 1980 that would contribute
to the Government's efforts to accelerate the exploration and development of
its petroleum potential. Preparation is also underway of an Engineering
Loan to finance studies and a pilot unit to test the potential for
commercial extraction of oil from oil shale.
31.      The sectoral objectives implied in these projects as well as other
objectives relating to price policy, efficiency and composition of the
public sector investment program, and measures to mobilize domestic savings,
would be reinforced by the policy changes envisaged under the first
Structural Adjustment Loan which has been appraised and is under discussion
with the Government.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Manufacturing: Recent Performance and Characteristics
32.      The share of the manufacturing sector in GDP remained stable at
about 17 percent in the 1970s. After a period of accelerated growth at 7
percent per annum in real terms in the Third Plan (1973-77), due almost
entirely to the modern industrial sector, the growth of manufacturing slowed
to 4.5 percent per annum in 1978-79, as a result of increasing financial
constraints on the economy and a reassessment of industrial development



- 10 -
policy. Gross fixed capital formation in industry in the 1973-77 plan period
is estimated at DH 3.3 billion, much higher than during the Second Plan. The
,iain source of the upsurge in investment was the public sector, largely as a
result of the launching of a dozen major projects. Almost half of public
sector investment was channelled into highly capital-intensive subsectors.
In the interim Austerity Plan (1978-80) the number of projects and
investment decreased sharply; the primary emphasis of policy began to shift
to exports and employment generation. Preliminary data for 1980 indicate a
turnaround in industrial production and investment.
33.      The manufacturing sector has remained largely oriented toward the
domestic market for consumption goods, with food industries the dominant
subsector (generating over one-third of industrial value added), followed by
textiles (responsible for over one fifth of industrial value added) and
other resource-based, intermediate goods industries (chemicals, cement,
construction materials, paper and pulp). Import-substitution, a major
feature in Morocco's industrial development thus far, has not reduced
dependence on imports, but has led to replacement of substituted imports of
consumer goods by imports of intermediate and capital goods. The share of
domestic demand for manufactured goods met by local production increased
only marginally, from 59 percent in 1975 to 62 percent in 1978. There have
been significant recent increases in the volume of industrial exports (17
percent in 1980, as compared with 10 percent per annum during the period
1973-77) and their share in total export value (from about 24 percent in
1975 to about 39 percent in 1979). The food, textile and chemical industries
are most active in exports and account for about 90 percent of manufacturing
exports. Food industries have traditionally exported about 7 percent of
their production, and textiles and chemicals emerged as significant export
industries in the 1970s.
34.      Manufacturing establishments and employment are concentrated along
the Casablanca-Rabat-Kenitra axis, but recent Government policies aimed at
regional decentralization have produced slight changes. While total
industrial employment (excluding handicrafts) grew by 8.8 percent per annum
between 1975 and 1978, the manufacturing sector only provides a small share
of total employment (estimated at 11.5 percent in 1977).
35.      Morocco's complex system of industrial incentives comprises
protection and some export subsidization, pricing policy and investment
incentives. There are indications that the price structure is highly
distorted and not conducive to efficient resource allocation, that it
discriminates against exports and intermediate goods industries, and through
encouraging capital intensity, adversely affects employment generation.
Protection is rarely revised, except upward, and has uneven subsectoral
impact. Industrial investment incentives in the form of interest rebates,
duty exemptions on imported equipment, and tax exemptions have not
encouraged labor-intensive processes. Export incentives (tax exemptions on
export generated profits and short-term export credits at concessionary
interest rates have provided outside domestic credit ceilings; and
assumption of the foreign exchange risk on export contracts by the Treasury)



- 11 -
have not been sufficient to outweigh the disincentive effects of the high
prices of local inputs and the relative higher profitability of the domestic
market as a result of protection. There is thus a need to rationalize the
incentive system to make it more responsive to the Government's objectives
of employment generation and rapid export-led industrial growth (paragraphs
44 and 46).
The Financial System
36.      Morocco's financial sector includes Banaue du Maroc (the Central
Bank), fifteen commercial banks, five specialized institutions including the
industrial development bank, Banque Nationale pour le Developpement
Economique (BNDE), and two savings banks. There is also a stock market in
Casablanca with a limited and declining role. Commercial banks are
efficient, have a good record of profitability, and are free from major
Government interference. Sight deposits represent the major part of
commercial banks' resources (59 percent in 1979), and short-term loans
account for about 90 percent of their lending. The five specialized
financial institutions are responsible for the bulk of medium- and long-term
lending, and consist of institutions specialized by sector of activity,
lending to agriculture and agri-business, tourism projects, housing, and
industry, as well as an institution in charge of public fund management.
Financing of industrial investment takes various forms: medium- and
long-term credits of BNDE and commercial banks, foreign suppliers' credits,
leasing, and equity participation. Commercial banks offer three-year
equipment financing loans, but though the processing period for these is
short, their cost is higher than that of medium term credits. Leasing,
(introduced in 1965 and offered by three institutions) has only a marginal
impact. While BNDE and commercial banks occasionally invest in equity
participations in the private sector and the Office pour le Developpement
Industriel (ODI) (paragraph 39) in the public sector, there is as yet no
specialized venture capital company. Most equity financing comes from
individual savings or from public sources.
37.      Since 1978, the Government, in its effort to rebalance the economy,
has curtailed public capital expenditures and tightened bank credit to the
private sector. In practice, however, the banking system's short-term
credits have increased as a proportion of total credits, with a worsening of
the traditional illiquidity of Moroccan commercial banks. In 1980, the
Central Bank raised its basic rediscount rate, for the first time since
1975, from 4.5 to 6 percent.
38.      Lending Rates. The interest rate structure was overhauled in
October 1980, with substantial increases in both deposit rates (to attract
savings) and lending rates. The ceiling on commercial bank rates on
rediscountable loans was raised from 8 percent per annum to 9 percent per
annum for short-term loans and to 10 percent per annum for medium-term
loans. BNDE introduced a single rate of 12 percent per annum on all its
loans, regardless of maturity (replacing the former system of 10 percent per
annum for medium-term and 11 percent per annum for long-term loans).



- 12 -
However, the effective cost of capital for industrial borrowers from BNDE is
10 percent per annum, because a two-point interest rebate under the
Investment Code remains in effect. The feasibility of eliminating the
interest subsidy to improve efficiency is to be studied in the context of
the Government's structural adjustment program. Lending rates were
marginally negative in 1977 and 78, but became marginally positive in 1979
and 80. Inflationary pressures were moderate through 1976, and intensified
in 1977, when the cost of living index rose to 12.5 percent. Austerity
measures imposed in 1978 slowed the inflation rate to 9.7 percent in 1978
and 8.3 percent in 1979. In 1980 inflation increased to 9.4 percent. It is
expected to be about 8-9 percent over the commitment period of the proposed
loan, 1981-1983, slightly lower than BNDE's nominal (12 percent) and
effective (10 percent) lending rates.
Institutional and Policy Framework
39.      The Government sets policies for the development of industry
through its Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and also participates
directly in manufacturing activity. The Office Cherifien des Phospbates
(OCP) is responsible for mining, processing and exporting phosphates and
derivatives, activities reserved to the public sector because of their
importance to the economy. Under the supervision of the Ministry of
Industry, the Office pour le Developpement Industriel (ODI) is responsible
for industrial promotion activities. The ODI undertakes pre-investment
studies, acquires equity shares in new industrial enterprises, and aims at
contributing to regional development and local participation in
manufacturing.
40.      In the small scale industry (SSI) field, a Policy Making Unit was
created in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry in 1978, to formulate
development policies. A Technical Assistance Unit (TAU) was also established
in the ODI to assist in the technical and managerial functioning of small
scale industries. The Policy Making Unit had, by 1980, completed a study on
SSI development incentives, and some of its policy recommendations have been
incorporated in the 1981-85 Plan. The TAU appears to have provided effective
assistance to a number of projects, in technology, management and finance.
41.      In the field of export promotion, the recently created Centre
Marocain de Promotion des Exportations (CMPE), assisted by the International
Trade Center (ITC) in Geneva, is expected to function as the central
institution for the promotion of exports. The CMPE plans to conduct studies
between 1981 and 1983 on export markets for chemical industries and
electrical and mechanical SSIs, to identify a list of products of high
export potential, and to prepare a plan to penetrate US and Canadian markets.
42.      Knowledge of the manufacturing sector is still incomplete, and
Morocco has no unit for the study and planning of industry, evaluation and
monitoring of implementation, and review of industrial policy. To fill this
gap an Industrial Planning Unit is being established within the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry (paragrapb 67).



- 13 -
43.      The new 1981-85 Plan stresses three major objectives of industrial
development: (a) expanding export industries based on local resources (such
as, principally, phosphate-based chemicals) or using unskilled or
semi-skilled labor (such as textiles); (b) employment creation through
encouraging SSIs; and (c) promotion of efficient import-substitution
industries for capital and intermediate goods. Under the Plan, industrial
investment is projected to total DH 20.9 billion ($4.2 billion eauivalent)
and generate a growth rate of 8.4 percent per annum in industrial value
added. Industrial investment is to be focussed on: chemical industries for
exports, mainly manufacture of phosphate derivatives (51 percent of
investment); labor intensive SSIs (12 percent of investment); and the
development of engineering industries (15 percent of investment), where, at
Morocco's present stage of development, opportunities exist for efficient
import substitution.
44.      The revision of the incentives system (protection, and investment
and export codes) will be undertaken by the Government after a series of
studies to assess the current system and to recommend appropriate changes
are completed; these studies, supported by the Bank, have been in progress
since 1979. They will serve as a basis for rationalizing the protection and
price structure, and for recommending new incentive systems. In the context
of its program for structural adjustment, the Government has drawn up a
program for completing the studies in 1981, for preparing its
recommendations for reformulating the structure of protection and of the
incentive codes in the first quarter of 1982, and for completing the gradual
reform of the structure of protection and tariffs by mid-1983. The reforms
are expected to reduce administrative delays, and the various biases that
exist presently among sectors, among firms and between production for the
local market and for export. The new codes are also expected to offer more
effective incentives to foreign companies to make sub-contracting
arrangements with Moroccan firms, and bring about transfers of technology.
45.       While the preparatory work for the major industrial policy reforms
outlined in the previous paragraph is underway, the Government plans to
undertake several important actions for promoting exports in the short-term.
The CMPE is being strengthened, administrative export procedures and access
to export financing are being simplified, and an agency is being created for
standardization and quality control, especially of industrial export
products. The Government is also undertaking measures to promote the
participation of domestic engineering industries in capital formation. These
include the study and establishment of a credit system for financing the
inputs and marketing of capital goods, and the establishment before March
1982, under the auspices of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, of an
Engineering Contracting Unit to integrate more domestic capital goods in
public industrial projects.



- 14 -
Bank Role in Industry
46.      The role of the Bank in industrial development in Morocco has been
to support structural change in industry through the efficient development
of individual sub-sectors, through the development of institutions concerned
with industrial development, and through a dialogue on policy issues. Past
Bank financing has supported the development of industrial processing of
Morocco's phosphate reserves; of the cement subsector; of BNDE as a source
of medium-term financing for industry of growing importance and
sophistication; and the development of SSIs, where there is considerable
potential for efficient growth of production and generation of employment.
Recently, the policy dialogue has focused on the structure of protection and
incentives in general, on the expansion of manufactured exports, on
employment generation and on developing the industrial structure. These
areas are receiving priority from the Government and will form the main
focus for Bank financing over the next several years.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
47.      The proposed project consists of a ninth line of credit to BNDE of
$70 million. The loan follows from successful projects financed by the Bank
in the past. The proposed project was appraised in October-November 1980,
and negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. on May 17 to 22, 1981. The
Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. Abdelkader Benslimane, BNDE's President
Director-General. A staff Appraisal Report entitled "Ninth BNDE Project"
(No. 3407a-MOR dated June 2, 1981) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and project are lis.ed in
the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Previous Bank Loans
48.      The Bank has made eight loans to BNDE amounting to $184.7 million,
net of cancellations. The BNDE VII loan (1061-MOR) of $30 million was fully
committed and disbursed before the original closing date of December 31,
1979. The BNDE VIII loan (1428-MOR) of $45 million became effective
December 21, 1977, and is now fully committed; disbursements amounted to
$26 million as of May 1, 1981. i.e., 60 percent of expectations at the time
of appraisal. The slow disbursement stems from the economic slowdown
experienced in Morocco during 1978-80; the loan is now expected to be fully
disbursed within six months of the original closing date of September 30,
1981. The estimated economic rate of return of projects under Loan 1428-MOR
ranged from 18 to 50 percent, well above the minimum 10 percent.



- 15 -
Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR)
49.      PPAR No. 1805, dated November 23, 1977, covers the fifth loan to
BNDE (Loan 736-MOR). The Completion Report forming the basis for the PPAR
was prepared at the same time as the appraisal of the BNDE VIII Loan. The
PPAR was generally appreciative of BNDE's institutional achievements, but
singled out a few areas for improvement. The two main points stressed in
the PPAR were the need for realistic interest rates, and the dangers
inherent in financing large public sector projects in which BNDE's influence
on project design is marginal. They were taken into account in the BNDE
VIII project and are also fully reflected in the preparation of BNDE IX. As
noted in paragraph 38, BNDE's lending rates were revised upwards as late as
October 31, 1980; furthermore, BNDE now applies the same appraisal criteria
to all projects it finances, whether public or private, and whether or not
they are financed under a Bank loan.
BNDE Operations
50.      During 1977-79, the total investment cost of projects involving
BNDE financing amounted to about DH 5 billion ($1 billion equivalent),
compared to DH 6 billion ($l.2 billion equivalent) in 1974-76. BNDE's direct
loan and equity approvals for these projects amounted to DH 1.5 billion
(2300 million equivalent) and rediscounted loan approvals to DH 0.7 billion
($140 million equivalent); the balance was provided from equity funds,
Government grants, and other loan financing, mostly in the form of
suppliers' credits.
51.      The average size of direct BNDE loans declined to DH 6 million
($1.2 million equivalent) during the 1979-80 period, from DH 9.4 million
($1.9 million equivalent) in 1976-77, indicating a shift to smaller
projects. The decrease in the size of BNDE's direct loans partly reflects
Morocco's revised industrial strategy of increasing emphasis on smaller
enterprises. During the period 1977-80 over 75 percent of the amount of
BNDE's loan approvals was in the private sector, compared to 45 percent in
1974-76. The most important sector of lending was manufacturing industry,
followed by transport.
BNDE's Structure, Management, and Staffing
52.      While BNDE's corporate status has remained unchanged, its ownership
structure has been somewhat altered since the Bank's last appraisal of BNDE
in 1976, with Government control increasing from 38 percent in 1976 to 50
percent in 1980. This increase is not expected to cause any changes in
BNDE's policies.
53.      There have been major changes in BNDE's management and staff,
including the appointment in January 1978 of Mr. Abdelkader Benslimane,
former Finance Minister, as President Director-General. The turnover of
senior staff affected BNDE's performance, particularly in economic project
and sector work, and inadequate supervision of loans contributed to mounting
arrears. Partly as a result of Bank concern and follow-up of these aspects,



- 16 -
a new organizational structure was introduced in January 1981. The
reorganization aims at improved coordination and efficiency, with greater
departmental autonomy and increased emphasis on areas of priority, such as
supervision and loan recovery, export promotion, and sector studies. An
Export Unit has been created, and some of the proposed sector studies will
relate to export promotion. A staffing plan, which was reviewed and found
satisfactory during negotiations is being put into effect and an adequate
number of experienced staff is being placed in the newly formed key
divisions.
54.      At the end of 1980, BNDE had a total staff of 170 including 78
professionals, compared to 60 professionals in 1976. BNDE's staff of
economists was more than doubled in 1980, in anticipation of the
above-mentioned reorganization.
BNDE's Performance and Financial Position
55.      BNDE's profitability and financial position were generally sound
during the 1977-80 period, although they were affected in 1979-80 by the
movement of international interest rates and the slowdown of domestic
economic activity (paragraph 32). Profits before taxes declined from DH 42.7
million ($8.5 million equivalent) in 1978 to DH 37.6 million ($7.5 million
equivalent) in 1979, but recovered somewhat to DH 40 million-($8.0 million)
in 1980. The decrease was mainly due to the high cost of London Inter-Bank
Offered Rate (LIBOR) indexed Euro-dollar borrowings, the average cost of
which increased from 13 percent in 1978 to 20 percent in 1979 and the first
half of 1980. This resulted in the fall of BNDE's interest spread which
declined from 1.8 percent in 1977 to 1.0 percent in 1979, and 1.2 percent in
1980. However, the Euro-dollar borrowings are being repaid rapidly and will
be completely repaid in 1982, while in October 1980 BNDE increased its
nominal interest rate to a uniform 12 percent p.a. from 10 percent for
medium term loans (up to 7 years) and 11 percent for long-term loans; as a
result, the interest spread is expected to rise to 1.6 percent in 1981, 2.2
percent in 1982 and 3.0 percent in 1983, provided BNDE does not again have
to increase its borrowings in the expensive Euro-currency market which does
not seem likely (paragraph 62). In addition, BNDE's annual administrative
expenses have remained relatively low and represented about 0.7 percent of
average assets in 1980. The deteriorating trend in BNDE's profitability
should therefore be reversed in 1981 and BNDE's profitability is expected to
improve quickly and remain satisfactory during the 1981-84 period. In this
connection, BNDE has accepted to seek to maintain profits at a level of at
least 25 percent of equity from 1982 onwards; profits were less than
20 percent of equity in the recent past but are expected to improve with
BNDE's widening interest spread.
56.      BNDE's audited and unaudited balance sheets for the 1977-80 period
show that BNDE's total assets increased by 33 percent between 1977 and 1980
with an increase of DH 506 million ($101 million equivalent; +29 percent) in
its net portfolio outstanding. This steady growth of BNDE's lending
activity, particularly in 1978 and 1980, has brought about a 10 percent
increase in term borrowings, from DH 1,688 million ($338 million equivalent)



- 17 -
in 1977 to DH 1,855 million ($371 million equivalent) in 1980. Consequently,
the debt:equity ratio increased from 8.9:1 in 1977 to 9.9:1 in 1978 (i.e.
almost the 10:1 limit agreed between the Bank and BNDE under the BNDE VII
project). Decreased borrowings in 1978 and 1979, coupled with high
repayments, contributed to a lower debt:equity ratio (9.7:1 and 9.3:1 at
end-1979 and end-1980, respectively); projections indicate that the debt
equity ratio will remain well below 10 over the next few years. As a result,
no capital increase is considered necessary during 1981-83 unless
commitments increase faster than anticipated. Under the proposed loan, BNDE
would achieve and not exceed a maximum debt:eauity ratio of 10:1 as of
January 1, 1982 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.06).
57.      BNDE's debt service ratio (defined as the ratio of the sum of
BNDE's total loan collections and net profit before taxes and interest
charges to BNDE's debt service payments) has declined steadily since 1977,
largely because of increasing loan arrears, and reached 1.0 in 1980, the
minimum level provided for under the BNDE VIII loan. However, the debt
service ratio is projected to be 1.2 in 1981 and should continue increasing
thereafter due to a stabilization of the amount of debt service, coupled
with a projected substantial increase of loan collections from 1981 onward.
To provide adequate safegards against a future liquidity squeeze, BNDE has
accepted to maintain a minimum debt service ratio of 1.1 from January 1982
onwards.
58.      BNDE's arrears situation has seriously deteriorated since 1978,
partly because of previous heavy financing by BNDE of enterprises which are
now in structural and financial difficulties, but also because of the
slowdown in overall economic activity. Rising arrears also resulted from
inadequate follow-up by BNDE (paragraph 53). The portfolio affected by
arrears of more than three months was DH 844 million ($169 million
equivalent) or 34 percent of the loan portfolio outstanding as of December
31, 1980, and at that time, such arrears amounted to 10 percent of BNDE's
outstanding loans.
59.      BNDE's outstanding loans are either guaranteed by the Caisse
Centrale de Garantie (CCG), a Government agency, and/or are secured by
sufficient collateral. The major portion of CCG guarantees covers dues from
public enterprises. The CCG honored its guarantee for the first time in
December 1980 by covering DH 6.9 million ($1.4 million equivalent) due to
BNDE by SEFERIF, a public sector mining company in serious financial
difficulties. Following this first payment, the CCG has paid a further sum
of DH15 million ($3 million equivalent) in April 1981. The Government has
recently reinforced administration of the CCG, improved its funding
mechanism, and plans to undertake a study to revise and improve its
operation.
60.      In view of the deteriorating arrears situation, the Government and
BNDE have taken several measures to safeguard BNDE's financial position,
reverse the trend of rising arrears, and address some of the underlying



- 18 -
problems which have generated arrears. In the framework of its
reorganization early this year, BNDE has created a Division for Loan
Recovery, instituted stepped-up procedures for monitoring of arrears, and
reinforced its Supervision Division. These measures, as well as CCG's
payments to date, have resulted so far in a significant reduction from 10
percent of loans outstanding on December 31, 1980, to a current level of
8.4 percent in arrears. Furthermore, a plan of action was defined with BNDE
and the Government to eliminate arrears owed by the four borrowers with the
largest amounts in arrears. The plan of action outlines the successive
steps leading either to a reestablishment of the financial viability of each
borrower on a basis satisfactory to BNDE after a thorough examination
covering technical, marketing and financial aspects as warranted; or to CCG
payments corresponding to the arrears and according to an agreed timetable.
BNDE therefore projects that arrears will be reduced to 8 percent of loans
outstanding by end 1981, 6.9 percent by end 1982 and 5.5 percent by end
1983. On the basis of these projections which have been reviewed in detail,
as well as of the auditors' assessment of BNDE's provisions for losses on
outstanding loans, arrears should not put BNDE's financial position at risk.
61.      Since the previous appraisal at the end of 1976, BNDE's continuous
resource mobilization efforts have been successful, and total outstanding
resources increased by 60 percent from DH 1,768 million ($354 million
equivalent) at the end of 1976 to DH 2,821 million ($564 million equivalent)
in September 1980. As regards local currency, which represented 41 percent
of total resources as of December 31, 1980, BNDE has received resources from
a share capital increase (DH 70 million in 1977), net cash generation and
local borrowings. Bond issues (most of them 15-year bonds at 7.5 percent)
represented almost 90 percent of local borrowings or 31 percent of total
resources in December 1980. As regards foreign exchange resources, the Bank
has continuously supported BNDE's objective to diversify its sources of
funds. This objective has been substantially achieved. The proportion of
Bank funds decreased from 42 percent of total resources outstanding in
mid-1974, to 20 percent at the end of 1976 and to 8 percent in December 1980.
62.      BNDE's realistic operational forecast for 1981-84 takes into
account the expected recovery of industrial investments in Morocco, and
assumes an increase in direct loan and equity commitments at 5 percent per
annum in current prices from the relatively high basis in 1980. This program
of commitments would mean that BNDE would require financial resources of
DH 1,818 million ($364 million equivalent) until the end of 1983. BNDE has
identified DH 1,208 million ($242 million equivalent) of resources. This
figure includes DH 157 million ($31 million equivalent) of foreign
resources, which BNDE expects to secure at fixed interest rates from OPEC,
the Deutsche Entwicklungs Gesellschaft, the African Development Bank and the
European Investment Bank. The balance of the resources identified are local
and would come from cash generation, net loan collections and bond issues.
The proposed Bank loans under the present project would provide an
additional estimated DH 438 million ($87.5 million equivalent), of which DH
350 million ($70 million) would be under the proposed BNDE IX loan and



- 19 -
DH 187 million ($17.5 million) would be channelled through BNDE under the
proposed Second Small Scale Industry loan. Funds from the Bank loans are
expected to be fully committed by end-1983. The net resource gap up to
end-1983 would therefore be DH 175 million ($35 million), which BNDE is
expected to be able to fill in due course. BNDE has accepted to consult with
the Bank if it plans to substantially depart from this resource mobilization
plan, and to keep a reasonable balance between its floating interest
borrowings, which should not be excessive, and its borrowings at fixed
interest rates.
63.      Audits at BNDE are satisfactory, and are conducted by a reputable
international accounting firm on an annual basis. The audited financial
statements will continue to be submitted to the Bank within six months of
the close of the financial year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02). In view of
the large arrears, in-depth reporting of this aspect will be arranged by
BNDE on a quarterly basis. A statement with details of the arrears by sector
will be prepared quarterly (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02 (iii)).
Objectives of the BNDE Loan
64.      The principal objectives of the project are:
(a) the provision of foreign exchange needed to finance efficient
projects undertaken by manufacturing and service companies;
this is a continuation of the line of credit provided to BNDE
under previous Bank loans;
(b) the promotion and financing of efficient export-oriented
projects (minimum 20 percent of the loan component); the
selection, evaluation, promotion and follow-up of these
projects, as well as other studies to be undertaken, will help
to develop BNDE expertise in this field; and
(c) the further strengthening of BNDE, particularly in the areas of
project supervision, collection of arrears, as well as
activities in support of export-oriented industries.
BNDE Loan Features
65.      At least 20 percent ($14 million) of the proposed Loan of $70.0
million will be used for financing the foreign exchange capital cost of
export-oriented sub-projects, defined as sub-projects expected to export at
least 20 percent of incremental production (Loan Agreement, Section
2.02 (b)). The remainder of the loan (up to $56 million) will be used for
financing part of the foreign exchange requirements of manufacturing and
service industries. All sub-projects must show a minimum financial rate of
return (FRR) and an economic rate of return (ERR) of 12 percent (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02 (a) (ii)).
66.      The proposed loan will be made to BNDE with the guarantee of the
Government, and as with past BNDE loans, the Government would cover the
foreign exchange risk. The amortization schedule will be based on the
aggregate repayments of the sub-loans. The sub-loans will have a maximum



- 20 -
repayment period of 15 years from signature of the proposed loan, including
up to 4 years grace (Loan Agreement, Section 2.08 (b)). In view of the
serious arrears situation, the free limit of $2.0 million established under
the BNDE VIII loan will be retained for non export-oriented sub-projects
under BNDE IX (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02 (c)) to allow the Bank to review
sub-projects more closely. The upper aggregate free limit would be 60
percent of the total loan amount, or $42 million; there was no aggregate
free limit under the previous loan, and since there were only two
sub-projects above the free limit, the Bank was not able to review regularly
the quality of BNDE's appraisal work. In line with the provision of the
previous loan, there would be an upper limit of $6.0 million per sub-loan,
or $8.0 million after including any sub-loan or investment made out of the
proceeds of any prior loan to the same enterprise (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01 (c)). There will be no free limit on sub-loans for export projects, so
as to ensure maximum feedback and supervision of these loans. As a result of
this limit, together with the free limits set above, the Bank would expect
to make a full review of about 5 projects above the free limit and of
5 export-oriented projects, representing about 33 percent of the number of
sub-projects and accounting for about 50 percent of the loan amount; a
further 20 projects below the free limit would be reviewed in less detail.
67.      BNDE has considerable experience in appraising industrial projects,
but has only recently begun focussing on export-oriented projects. In
addition to promoting export-oriented projects, and developing methods to
assess export potential and performance, BNDE will undertake further work on
developing its export project appraisal and supervision capability. BNDE
will also create an Export Unit (initially staffed with 3 persons) in the
Appraisal Department, and the new Sector Studies Division of the Development
Department will review export potential and constraints as part of the
industrial sector and sub-sector work it will undertake. BNDE has expressed
its interest in being associated with the efforts of the Centre Marocain de
Promotion des Exportations (CMPE) (paragraph 41) to promote and develop
exports and with the Industrial Planning Unit to be established within the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry (paragraph 42).
Procurement and Disbursement
68.      Procurement will follow BNDE's normal procedures (international
bidding or shopping), which are satisfactory.
69.      Disbursements will only be made against standard documentation
giving evidence of expenditures. The BNDE IX loan is expected to be fully
committed by December 31, 1983, and to be fully disbursed by December 31,
1986 (Loan Agreement, Sections 2.03 (c) and 2.04).



- 21 -
Justification and Risks
70.      The BNDE IX loan would continue to assist a mature institution
which plays an important role in Morocco's industrial sector, and will, in
the face of difficult conditions in international financial markets, (
continue to require important but proportionately decreasing financing from
the Bank in the foreseeable future. BNDE submits all the projects it
finances to ever more rigorous appraisal according to high standards. It
has taken vigorous action to address emerging problems of arrears, which can
be expected to return to acceptable levels over the medium term, without at
any point threatening its financial position. BNDE also plays a dynamic
role in support of the Government's policies in the industrial sector. In
particular, BNDE is expected to develop under the project the capacity to
foster and support export industries, a prime concern of the Government and
an area which assumes increasing importance in its policy dialogue with the
Bank. There are no special risks attached to the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between BNDE and the Bank., the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
72.      Special conditions of the project are listed in the text and in
Section III of Annex III.
73.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
June 22, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-  22  -                           ~~~~~~~~~Page I
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
LAND HAEA (ThOUSAND SQ. Rot.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)L-
lTAL             447.0/c                                                     MIDDLE INCOME
AGRiCULTURAL     203.7 7c                               MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA 6           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PtR  CAPIIA (US_)                 200.0        310.0     740.0                 865.5                   1616.2
NEhRGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA
(XILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)      169.3        222.2     315.2                 758.3                   1324.1
poPUoATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
UPPULATION, MID-YEAS (TI40SSIDS) 11626.0       14993.0   19538.0
ELgAN PlpOPUL.TlUN (PERCENT UF TOTAL) 29.3        34.6      39.9                  45.2                     64.2
PUPULATILh PRoJECTIONS
KLPULATION IN YEAR 2UOU (tIILLIONS)                       35.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          81.0
-YEAh STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2090
PtU-LATION DENSITY
PFR SQ. EN.                        26.0         33.5      43.7                  36.3                     34.3
PoE SQ. KM. AGRICULTULAL LAND      59.U         76.0      92.9                 442.7                     94.5
yoPULATION AGE SITRUCTURE (PERCENT)
I-14 YES.                          44.8        47.6       46.3                  44.2                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.6        48.3       50.4                  52.4                     55.3
cS YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6          4.1       3.3                   3.4                      4.0
POPULATION GOWTH KATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.6          2.5       2.9                   2.7                      2.4
UtbAN                               3.7         4.2        4.5                   4.6                      3.7
CRU511 BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     50.2         47.4      44.2                  41.5                     31.4
CHUDL DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.8         16.4      12.8                  12.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION EATE               3.6          3.5       3.2                   2.9                      2.3
Ft'MILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         25.1      78.0
USERS (PERCENT OF NARRIED WOMEN)    .,           1.0       5.4
FOOD ANO NUThITION
INDEX UF FOOD PRODUCTION
PEE CAPITA (1969-71=1Ou)           99.0        98.0       65.0                  96.3                    108.3
PFE CAPITA SLPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.0        102.0     105.0                 110.4                    107.6
PEOTEINSS (GRMS PER DAY)           62.0         66.0      67.0                  73.4                     65.8
OP WHICR ANIMAL ANL PULSE        13.0         13.0      13.0                  17.L                     34.0
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MUhTALITY KATE      30.3         21.9      15.7                  14.9                      7.6
hEALT h
LIVE bXPECIANCY AT bIRTH (YEARS)    46.9          51.9      56.4                  55.9                     64.1
INFANT MOKTALITY
A,NTL (PEk ThOUSAND)                 ..           .-        *.                    *-                     70.9
ACCESS Tu SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
FOPUL ATIOON)
TOTAL                              30.6         51.0      55.0                  59.4                     65.7
URBAN                              5B.7        92.0      100.0                  83.9                     79.7
gUhAL                              19.0        28.0       25.0                  40.8                     43.9
ACCESS TU tXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         29.0        ..                    ..                     59.9
UEbAN                                .         75.0         ..75.7
RURAL                                ..          4.0        ..                    ..                     30.4
POPULATIUN lEK PHYSICLAN           9406.1/d   12814.5   11037.4                 4174.5                   1728.2
POPULATION PEe NURSING PERSON          ..       2742.2    1693.5                1780.5                   1288.2
POPULATION PER hOSPITAL 0ED
TOTAL                             626.0       664.3      773.6                647.4                     471.2
UCbAN                                ..       454.7      623.4                 547.2                    558.0
EUEAL                                ..      5821.4    3089.5                 3361.1
ALMlSSIOS PER HOSPITAL bED            ..         15.5      16.5                  25.3
AVI.RAGE SOZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.8          5.5
UKEAN                               4.3          4.9
hLEAL                               5.1          5.8
AVERAGE SOUBER OF PERSONS PER KOOCM
TOTAL                               2.2          2.4
UKE(BAN                             2.1          2.1
RURAL                               2.3          2.6
ACCLSS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINCS)
ToTAL                              76.1/e
URBAN                              8.5.s7i      68.4      65.0*
KLBAL                              30.87          .          .
EL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .A



- 23 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                          RFFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0         52.0      72.0                   85.1                    101.7
KALE                  67.0        67.0       90.0                 101.5                    103.0
FEMALE                27.0        36.0       54.0                  67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  5.0         13.0      20.0                  38.0                      35.3
MALE                   7.0         18.0      25.0                  48.1                     34.9
FEhALE                 2.0         7.0       15.0                  28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..           2.0        3.0                  11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            43.0         34.0      39.0                  34.9                      29.6
SECONDARY                            ..         20.0      21.0                  23.8                      15.7
ADULT LITEkACY RATE (PERCENT)         14.0        21.4       28.0                  43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0         14.8      19.6                  18.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         45.8         62.4      87.4                 121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                          0.4         11.6      32.6                  37.4                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  22.0         16.2       10.7                  35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0            ..       2.0                    3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3369.7       3951.7    5117.3
FENALE (PERCENT)                   10.1         14.1      15.6                   10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              62.5         56.9      52.7                   43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.8         17.4      20.7                  27.3                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                29.0         26.4       26.2                  26.4                     31.8
MALE                                 52.1         45.2      44.2                   47.0                     49.0
FEHAlE                                 5.9         7.5       8.2                    5.7                     14.6
ECONOLIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         2.0        1.9                   1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIBHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/f        2D.O/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.377        49.07        .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.077         4.07        -*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.07f        12.07?
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             107.0        157.0     389.0                 271.4
RUSAL                              66.0        101.0     238.0                 144.6                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     242.0                 400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..     157.0                 290.9                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVELRTY INCOlbL LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              51.0         38.0      28.0                  22.1
RURAL                              49.0         45.0      45.0                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage cf countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Excludes the ex-Spanish Sahara; /d 1962; /e Brick buildings only; /f Consueption expenditures of households.
Revised
June, 1981



- 24 -                                                                                   ANNE  I
Pea 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data art drueo frosure  generally judged the mas authoritative ad reliable, it  hoald  I-e be  -otd that they   y eat ha  Wne-
nainll -oparble because of the lack of standnditad defioitio   an...d -onc.pt  used by differen  .oa.i. ll1in totentg  b  dece.  mal "a.  t, I                   ose
thel...s.. aefu1 to desribe ordern of egoiUde, indicat  trende, and cberaote.rieecrti  eajoc dtierneebt-etoa                         e
The ref ..o Ig.n.r .. ) the seacunr  grou  of toe subject ccu..try and (2) a  on ry rop  i th soehthigheraeaeitn  than the caaty  oa
ofab uf acccor    ierp   o   Cpt:l Sarplus Oil foporters" group  hbere "Middla Ince  Nort  Africa and Kiddle tEen" gs thocehea     o   trma
soicL-cl-rurlafviie . I  tha referenc  group data nh. a-rages ar  popolatiot reigbhtd erith=eic  -aomfor e-c   dindlgeo  and ahom  na1y fm-
mjority cf the courtniam  Ira. group has data for then iodicatcr.  Since. oh. e roeg  of co-otrirT a           'n h  ndetr  depeds on the  -vatleitlty of date
end It ou  uvifon, cautioc  -ce  be enr-i-d to ra             --g vrgas of.. onetira-tortonthsr.   h.an  a ~veas ar ny  .aefaf In tomaing the  -a1a  of
on itdicat-orn.taiea anongthecouc..trynod referst- groo.p.
LAUD AREA Ichou..and elk..)          -                                                           oplnitpr   reiolgd - onl, othe,,,and min  - PopulatorftoaO
Total - Tona  surface area c-pciaiog lar   re  ndild            miIa.bohan   an                            Iurl    divdd by thMe rep -tv   aer of haspiti1 bade
Aariruirtorl - tEticata of arcltrl.e  sdteprrlyo  Pe-r-a ly                                     -tilbahe topblic and priat  geerl  n  saoaled   otie  and re-
fo rp,peecree., market atd kitchen goodene cr to lie fallon; 1979 data.                hohtlitnaiatanrrs.    Ws tl   resn binhetspeeneetly stffed
by at leston  physician.  gtatblisbeeta  Providin  principally roto-
lNP PER CAPITA1 (tiS)) - GNP' Per c-pits net i-at    ccuro    aketpie,                            dial cart are no  inoldd.  Rae  hospitals, h- .eer  -molnd  bealrh
culeted by ..ae.. ccraic method an ucrldDakke   (1077-7I basIs)'; 1990,                        ad edicar tntr  toIeraenl  stfftd by a Phny1ita "(hat bya
1070, nod 1970 dnca.                                                                           modlce1 .as.snen, tr.  idnife, etc.) which offe  Se-Paten'-             te
damon. and provde A lieittd range of endcoa  farIlities'. Pe   tatt-
tNEaGY CONSUMPTI1O0 PER CAPITA - Atu..I c--upoict of   -nrciul energy Ic-1                        tical porposne orha  horpineis intloda WHO. prinoipal/ganra  boPitai,
nodtlslgnte.  reroeo,ntua  gte a-d hydro-. o             -la  and geoherma  eIe-                and rorel hospltal1n Io..' orrae  hepntnls aed esditel an -enrity
nrciry) inkIlogra   ofoa  nqui-1elo  per -npica; 1960, 197i, aud 19790                         reter. i, perielt-d h-spitale ate Included aly -ader tend..
date.                                                                                          die...ne rer goepite1 Bad - T.ta  aneh o. fadminsio ... ...  dichargee
from hompitals dlvidad by the namber af beds.
POPUAIO,AIN AND VITAL STATISTICS
Tota Pouaio.iid-Yrar (thouma..da) - An of July 1; 19i0, 1970, and 19709                    flOOSIffO
data                                                                                       Ave.a  ice  of goasbld sroesrhseod-nal.renndrre-
irhan P,raletin  ,loar..nt of novel) - R."to of urban to -oca  popolattot;                     Anenshald c_onsiat   f A  re   f teiinleseser   iig   otr
dfeetdafiniione.. of buhaoreaa may effect cop-rbilnny of dena                           And ibir gain el.  A hoarero  ledger my er may man he iecn=d f
-encutrcee; 1960  1070, aod 1979 dare,                                                    tehuhodFrstitclPreaa
Por..lenior Projoctiote                                                                      Argeath=   of rmr=na  sr.Neo -  otl. orbam  en  r_rl - Avrag  e-
Popuanio in  eer  000    Curantpopula1icc  proeccione- or -hsd on 1980              her0 of pe.o  par roe   in el ahao  and renta  totpied tamno
Octalpopl at4ionb   g   o   e   n   hi  rrtallity. and  ertocy rts                             alIngI  reeprtvmy.  Drlinaeoesenpreeaerta                               n
proj-cticepaaetr  for morneity rate  compier of thre  Iereasm                              ucutapdparts.l
ing life enpecvavcy  t hirth Incr..aing withcooy' pe   aita incos                        Access to Electicityfareto  Imlinas) _- tate    Moe. en  raral -
leve,  en d Ialelife1 cop-ta-y etabilining at .77.5 Iegrs   The pavo-                      _ovnioa         nllnga slob slecrictey in lInIng gatrasp-frstegm
actare  or ferility  rta alshove  hra  leel afeoing dt-lia in                    of total, urban, an  rural dmlliegsrmetmy
fercil ity ecrordlog to    . bom   lava1 an _mtfacy plann.ingprfoene
inch co-aY Is thenacige  o"e of t            "ee   lcacobionciots of _-roctaity        EDUCIATIONI
nod f-rtility cretIn for pcoeto   purpoes.                                               Adiusted tor..lIent gait
Statoay.      clco   -  n    ttoayppltion them. In oc groath since                           Pmaysbe-tol,aean1 fenl  - Oate. intel, main an  fete
th irth rat  Ia equa .l t   ho doath  -oe, eA elno the age strcture r-                    erllnc of all ages at the primary 1-1n ge P-ttates  of rempactir
etnontc.   Ti  mahee  ol   fe   etltyrtsdltet                                          pr Imr  ene-.g- PoPa1leir...; te--IIy telaesrild-s  egd 6-11
tha cr.plce-to le_   of unit net tmprodutoio  rate, what math geasinyere hat adjasted for diffrnan lengths of prinaty sdaceoo; for
of   'Pe"elae    -Itel  e-tly.  Tha sttinryI  popltico site ens                          c   ries rich uni-reral sdn..ati-n enrolmen  mey ss  10O0P  ...reI
ostten    on he  oalsof  hepocted oharctrietio- of the popltinno  'O"a PpapII, are  -e -v abv  the effictel ece                                      - n
In the yea  2000, ed th. rg    cf decieo   etlt  rt   orpaa                                 Sroaervhbl -  os             1.ml ne  fena1a   Camnstad aabove;stndy
act leve.                                                                                    nda...tiotr.qntrees  les F- fcr yIcs ofappove  Primary inearnotan;
ea sttinry rrlto  inrahd-The yea  then a.teiory Pp.rletino                                     prvds gaerl vo- tioal.ortehnoop tranin  inernti.ns f- en"pib
em    oehw  rahd.                                                                   asalyo  12 to 17 Fsr  at eg.; erreep.ndence. .nre  arm geecrally
Pouletirn D-eity                                                                                  acladed.
Per en. ka. - fd-yenr popa1atiun per squre kilomete  1100 hectecas) of                       9'ecetiama enrollm t (terc  e f   -cedaryl )        aaiellniatn
to-I area;          9 1960, 1970 anM979 date                                                  nleds  -ehitl..  indosail. at ether pragre nhiob epernc icdpend-
Per sq. h.agl-uitural lood - Compucd as  bhne fur agiclorlad                                   manl oroadepar-tmet  of secodary Iatitation.
ony16, 170ad  1976 dat.                                                                  neltahr rtio - rim-r. ad  -ntEndr  - Teta1  tdetsenole   It
PPrcolnnt   fan  Otratu    Preret O- Children (I-lu yeerel, norkiag-ags (IS-                      pnimep  n  enc    -ar  bl   dIVridd by anher  ef tachr  inthe
hAymr),ed rtire   65yacnd   oe)a   ecnee   f mid-y-c  "por-                               torepoodig leyle
cation  1960, 1970, ed1979 data.                                                              Malt isra    rats fenren   - LIneens ada1ts (able te red and wits)
PopulatIon Grorh Rato    -..ceni - tota  - dAnna  groth faire of tona  eld-                      aspnrcntag   of ntl e.. bI  poyaletier egd 15 year.an  ove.
year populetirt for 1950-hI. 1960-70, end 1970-79~.
PPorletiot Ir_ch  URan  (prarenl) - arbat - A-e  growth -ava  of urban PoP.-               CONttSUsPTIOf
latione for 1950-60. 1960-70, nod 1970-79.                                                 Pase-nsa  Care (pltsobonsadecuail -. Pag                 r cr  e        -ieter
Crue erthnat  (rr  h.u..d) - Annul liv- birtha per th....nd of mid-yea-cr  snerne  lethnsgt P.r.o-; snlda   tn.                                    eac2men   n
.poplation; lh   l1970  nod 1979 data.                                                       e         'itr .vhiol
lnde tenth Rtan  frer rhouaodl - Annual deaths par thou-ds of  id-year                       tadit Z.eiar  (s  othatnadeuthi- An tyrns ef  -aeine                    1orrah
population; 1960, 1970, ed 19 79 dan.                                                        broadoats no gS-rnI ypblit Par- ahanand of pplisial; esaldne
Irn  sRpoduotion  aS- Aveag I     oeerf dnughtrsa roman rill hbnr In                        litn-ad r-r ...t In oeari ad in yeArs  t-e rsgiatratIe  of medIa
he _cma  rprdutI P:, peio  It  h   naincapeet ag.-.paoifit fer-                            eats  nsin sffnt; dote for recen  pacts say ac  he r arble slats
tclity rates; u llr  iaya   4rrar              en inaS  1960. 1970, ao  1979.                mast  -tutigs abolished liesn.
of  hrt-ccro  dvie   udrasieof carionel famiy plesain  prora.                                 genra=  pbil. t.fr H-Wc   Ppeynlttee; enldns enlir-e-Mea  TV rer.iver-
Penio Pantng    Uses (rocut  fmardeon) - Pretge of mercird                            in cnartead In Inam  h.. regitgrtien  f Tr acne                 L.c iefet.
all mariad rmnIA san  ego group.                                                             ouaina   diygnrlitrs   e~p~    ege   sap-reinaIl
pobliotggit devted primaily to raarding generl me    I  i.e oteed-rd
PON beM NUTRITION                                                                                 ra be"daily" if In appear  en 1et f-ac  time  a sek.
adnof Fond Pruuic  or Carping  116997~1-00) - loden of par onpita a-ua                    line Ana Att-aneo refCaIt    rYme-had. en the sta  nf
production Of all fon    odca.Poution enclndea sesd end feed and                             tirkata  -ld dar1ng thepo,isldn   ed I.-n te driv-in nimee
In  - calender year haste.  Coenditiga cove  pri-ary god.eg  egranad   bile naits..
mate  of -gor) n,hioh are edible end conai tnii5t5  (egt            ofe   n
me  teenlord.    g.gregte prodacian of  nch oounrY Is based en                     UJ   PORCE
national everage proAdoer price rslghte; 1961-h5, '1970, and 1979 dana.                    fTal Labntr Ppo (theeaels  - goam-mlsaly eating P.-em, imoinste
Par anto50rp   of alores (ercon ofreoiramete) - Coratsd from                      arme  fore  so       eloe  bat endiadig hauanives, etdea,sa..
enry _olen  of net food aupriln  avalable In coutry per capita                      covering peyutnt  ef all.5 .D nga    nlanoei vepice    .tmatimeer
pe   a.Available supplies compries dnrtit prcd_otin  imports lass                     tot nemyarabla; 1960. 19fa1970    979ti  data.
tnoc. and changes Ia  trrk.  Net supplien enclul  ..i;aI teed, seeds.,                Paas rtrc)-  ee  a    forts                     .. rntegs ef mta.l  blao  E.me
tcnin ins c. d In f-rd processing, cd losses I  dierihoio.   tqure.                    aeitnr forca_t)S -  fbo  fore  n =nmig  ferae, hndeg and
netsrot -    abtdby PAO  aado  physiologicnl nee ds fcr norma a-i-                         fliaig a   ecetg  o            1oa  labor fnrr; 194g. 1970 end 1979 daga,
vni  and health ron ialg rovironacca  cenperatna1re,boy actghts,,,! agIllsr  potn' - hr fresi nma,ogaaatim    egnt
and  -e  dierrihucco of pvpnlatiAo, and aloig10 pec              c   etatademniip  mater and gas e  paretea ef tate) laker fero..; 1990,
r.nerhold 1r-1; 1961-65, 1970, and 1977 dene.                                              1970 and 1979 data.
Per .aPit. eurly of Prtnai  (aren  rpr dad-y roei  con              fpr  Paric             PaocranRae           tare          - octal,ale and f meal - Perti`ipatig-e
ott supply of foud par day.  get eupply of fond Is  aia   saoe   Ra-                       stvt   assatmes   entl   es   n   aaelkrfesa
luIme-sta for  hotenir   -tbicahad hy UJSDA provide 0- nini-                               pecna         f total, male end f.Inal  pomati1n of eli en. resetively;
albacre o  SO  ramsnE tnal  rote IPer day end 10 gr-s of animal nod                1960. 1970, -ad 1979 dana.  mean ew  hand en DIn's parigeipesie  Ptm
poIsepoei,o  which .17710 grana rhould hr atonal protaic.  Theme snand-                    rfla:tning age-a  eann          f the pepalatien, ed Ir.g aims st .A
arle ar  Ilae  char chos  uf 75 gr-m  of  tota  proteco cod 23 gran  of                    fe   etaos   r  fren natiea         ante
ani-a  protein an on average for th  acrid, propose.d by FAO In the Third               Eomo redcyRatia - Ratio  ofPopalaso   aedet i5 se  69  a  oe
WorldId Po   Iavy;161-65. 1970 end 1977 data.                                              no  the rtota  lebnr forts.
Parcain  roreo  urlyfrom eo.   lan.    us  - Prtcain sopply of fovd de-
rive "P"  ros  tcn     sodpolest  gam   arda;1961-h5. 1970 and 1977 dec.                INeCOME ltIntgIBOfl
Chld laea  1-Al ortaifo ~Rat  (.ret h_un.d    A-IAa     denth  per thoc...dI it-raono   rvte becom  (both In   -h sad Mad) - macs ied byeoht
agegvop 1A yare  t  children it .hi         ..aroP; for eat   vlopiog con-              5pernt   ichest            -t 2pren,por    0 DO  er t. ae  pearet 40 perome
tries dare derived fore life rabIes; 1960, 1970 avd 1979 dat.                                ef h=uehede.
HCALTH                                                                                       POVoRTY TARGET  MuPS
ifi atrenoctgrh(e.)- Av-rnir nahr yE years of life remining                                  Thr fo11siogeoies   revyaPyPMnI-nt  ene af pantry  s-sl.,
orbirnh; 190I    90ad1979 dot.edsel   ritrrtdrbtnadrbrtnin
of ar pr cocend  ivrbirhfa.                                                            Abseld eerymr  leasEisthe-4r ir    ae   enw5m                          iia
Arcaneto Set nair (oncooc or otule ithi toal urbanl  o   ua  t.      -                ucitionally adaquay liar plea eretial no-fend reqnrt  is sat
herof  oope (ota,  rha. cd.rral.. ih. rasotebl  boces  to safe        t
pecfaa   fteI   rpcieP,yloa            oa  ucb,, arena Ipublic                     perona  coueofch  matr.   dnlee  is derivd f-re  the rem
...ti W r  teodpoe.   oecdot  acr-tan20  mtors fr_n ahbrow  tap ba                          lee  etc  Pdu       ..tfr  ihrrs  c  iigi  atsa
Aoeesfoteta.   hDiecl -   tI-aco ofIoaltuh-.otl   Uba.-n rra 
the coleccin anddisposl. vih cc  inhou  tr-caot  ofhaannortaEnar-,                                                                edfacelRashDvghs
andvanc-wate by aerhos  yceec  nhie-bl           us  oEPi pivesan  sin-.t  :tIwAbocats   Anlyisen  Pojonon -patm
lar installatione. ~          ~            ..     .1,tt.-1(R-t   .lb
r:.:.-bl.  -...  -Id iply thr 0. h...-if ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     HeylNN
Pouainrr hsca      oplco   iiedb                   buhro  practicing phyan-
t, -,d.dI.-p.rti-   p.rr           h   .    ~frh
PvuA. io ca   uan   erc-Ppcindvddb E--hrb.o. pradc-r1og
mae  o fene.le    r gcdgcnroe.  pacolnree,  n                  deeltap .uee..1:



- 25 -
Population      :  19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                                       ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 740 (1979)                                                                                                          Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                     Annual Growth Rates (%)
current prices)                         Actual                                           Projected
Indicator                         1978           1976   1977   1978   1979 p/  1980 e/               1981     1982    1983      1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic Product a/   12661              12.8    6.5      3.7    3.1        6.1              3.9       5.7      6.2      6.6      6.7
Agriculture                   2423         11.7  -13.2   19.1    0.8          10.0              3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5      3.5
Industry                     4052           9.8   10.0    1.1       2.9        2.9              4.0      6.0      7.4      7.4       7.4
Services                     6168          14.8     9.6     1.9    3.7         6.9              4.0      5.2      6.2      6.9       7.0
Consumption                     11203          11.7     2.0     7.4     3.3       5.1              4.0       2.3      4.1      4.8      6.0
Gross investment                 3072          20.1   11.0  -23.1   -1.2         -5.8             -5.2     15.7    12.8    10.2         8.0
Exports of GNFS                  2260           6.3     9.8     3.8    5.5                         7.6       6.5      8.8      9.6      6.8
Imports of GNFS                  3869         23.8   13.5  -16.1   -1.1                           -0.3    -1.0        4.8      4.5      5.0
Gross national savings           1890          13.9   20.6  -16.6   11.5                          -2.2     20.9    10.6    14.1         7.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (1969 = 100)           .        152.0  163.7  177.1  189.8    208.8
Exchange rate (Us$ per DH)          .          .226   .222    .240    .256       .254
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                                Average Annual Increase (X)
(at constant 1969 prices)                                   (at constant 1969 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                   1960-70   1970-75   1975-80    1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                                  4.0        4.9         6.4        5.9         6.8
Agriculture _/           29.1   19.9   15.1   13.6   12.5  10.7                      3.5       -0.5         5.1        3.5        3.5
Industry b/              23.5   27.6   30.6   29.5   31.6  32.4                     4.7         8.6        5.3         6.6        7.3
Services bl              47.4   52.5   54.3   56.9   55.8  56.9                     4.1         5.5        7.3         5.9        7.2
Consumption                 89.2   88.8   87.3   88.7   82.3  79.7                      4.1        4.7         5.8        4.1         6.1
Gross investment            10.3   16.0   24.6   16.7   18.5  18.9                      8.0       15.9        -2.4        9.4         7.3
Exports GNFS                27.4   18.9   14.8   15.4   16.9  17.3                      1.3        2.6         6.3        8.0         7.2
Imports GNFS                26.9   22.5   24.4   20.8   17.8  15.9                      3.5        7.2         2.1        2.7         4.3
Gross national savings   11.0   11.1   19.1   16.1   19.5  21.3                         3.5       13.1         3.1       10.0         8.7
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975        1980 e/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                    16.5        16.6       23.3        22.3
Current expenditures                                15.6        14.9       20.2        21.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                           0.9         1.7        3.1         0.6
Capital expenditure                                  3.8         5.9       12.2        12.1
Foreign financing                                      ..        1.4        3.7         5.5
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                        4.0         6.0        5.9         5.6        6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (%)             1.6         3.1        3.0         2.5        3.8
Energy consumption growth rate (%)    3.8              6.7        4.3         5.9        6.8
ICOR                                       3.09       2.77        3.87       2.88        2.74
Marginal savings rate                      0.10        0.40      -0.002       0.33       0.24
Import elasticityE/                        0.95        1.44       0.28       0.76        0.80
a/  At market prices.
h/  Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
c/  Goods only.
e/ Estimate.
l  Preliminary.
April 20, 1981
EMENA CP II-B



- 26 -
Population        19.5 (mid-1979)                                                                                     ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 740 (1979)                                                                                       Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                  Annual Growth Rates (%)
Indicator           (million USS at                              (at constant 1969 prices)
current prices)                Actual                                    Projected
1978         1975   1976   1977   1978   1979S-/ 1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)       1502       -22.8   12.8    8.0    3.5    5.5         9.4    7.6    6.0    9.3   10.4    6.5
Primary products             1143       -25.3   13.1    2.1    3.8    3.5         8.2    3.8    3.9    4.1    4.3    4.3
Phosphate rock             488      -29.9   12.0    7.5   10.4    3.3          6.1    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Others                     655       -22.5   13.8   -0.9    0.0    3.6         9.8    3.0    3.2    3.4    3.7    3.9
Intermediate & manufactures 360          -8.5   11.0   36.0    2.3   11.4        12.6   17.5   10.7   20.7   21.7    9.9
Merchandise imports (CIF)       2967        21.4    7.8   31.4  -26.4    9.7        -0.2    0.7    4.7    5.5    5.0    5.7
Food                          481        35.5  -24.0   32.9    8.6    2.0        -1.3   -5.1   -5.3   -5.1   -5.2    4.9
Petroleum                     427        12.8    2.9   14.5   10.7   12.2         3.9    3.8   -4.4    3.8    4.1    3.0
Machinery and equipment       813        51.7   20.4   76.3  -57.9   -3.2         6.3    1.0   17.2   13.3   10.2   10.6
Others                       1246         5.2   14.8    4.9  -10.7   19.1        -3.5    2.4    4.5    5.4    5.4    3.2
PRICES (1969 = 100)
Export price index                .        256.5  207.8  201.9  211.4  231.7    264.2  291.5  319.8  348.7  380.6  411.3
Import price index                .        205.0  211.7  223.4  236.1  252.4    293.4  326.0  351.4  379.2  408.7  437.9
Terms of trade index              .        125.1   98.2   90.4   89.5   91.8        90.0   89.4   91.0   91.9   93.1   93.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                       Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                (at constant 1969 prices)
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985   1990        1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                          2.0      -0.7        7.5       8.1        6.9
Primary products          89.5    89.7   86.9   73.7   61.3   59.8           ..      -2.2        4.7        4.1        6.0
Intermediates & manu-   10.5    10.4   13.1   26.3   38.7   40.2             ..       9.0       17.8       16.0        8.1
factures 
Imports                                                                          4.0       8.1        0.0       4.5        5.4
Food                      27.3    16.8   24.9   16.2    9.6    6.6            ..     14.0        0.8       -3.8       -1.8
Petroleum                  7.4     5.5   10.7   25.0   24.2   23.4            ..      9.5       10.2        1.8        2.0
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.0   23.9   18.6   28.2   32.3              ..     12.8       -3.0       11.3        8.7
Others                    58.6    53.7   40.5   40.2   38.0   37.7            *-      3.8       -5.4        4.5        5.6
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)         Developing Countries (x)       Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1960      1970       1975        1960       1970       1975      1960           1970            1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                        72.3       73.7       60.8        27.7       25.4      38.8        ..            0.9              0.4
Imports                        76.7       74.9       65.7        23.3       25.1      33.9        ..             ..             0.4
e/  Estimate.                                                                                           April 20, 1981
EMENA CP II-B



- 27-
Population      :  19.5 (nid-1979)                                                                                                                                    ANNEX I
CNP Per Capita:  US$ 740 (1979)                                                                                                                                       Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USt at current prices)
Indicator                                                          Actoal                                                             Proj-ted
1970      1975       1976      1977       1978       1979       1980 !/   1981       1982     1983   1984   1985        1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                   775      2580       2288      2486       2955      3694        4318        5136     5852     6758    7872   8926   16088
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.               488       1530      1245       1283      1488       1938        2413       2851      3314     3951   4759    5477    10336
Inports of goods and services                  946       3134      3691       4364      4353       5268        5794       6369      6899     7911   8791    9865    16604
Of whicb:  Mer-bandise f.o.b.               625      2267       2305       2820      2628       3245        3734       4158    4693       5344   6046   6846    12178
Net current tranters                             27         8         47        52         50        44          66           -         -        -       -       -         -
Current acco.nt balance                       -144       -546     -1355      -1826     -1348      -1530       -1410      -1233    -1047    -1153   -919    -939        -516
Special grats                                             100        435       360        260       420          96         300      250       200     150     100
C-rrent aceuont balance after grants    -144             -446       -920     -1466     -1088      -1110       -1314        -933     -797     -qS3    -769   -839       -516
Privote capital                                  21        21         38        53         45        37          .,          25       28        31      35      39       79
MLT loans (net)                                  90       304        336      1338       1109       946        1098        1083      901     1121      882     979      727
Official                                      ..        ..         ..        ..         ..        ..          ..        716       643      683     554    612        618
Private                                      ..         ..         ..        ..         ..        ..          ..        367       159      437     329     368       109
Other capital                                    56       104         30        68        -773          3        79         -70      -42       -30       -       -         -
Nonetary movements                              -23         17        16          6         8         53        295        -105      -89     -169   -147    -179       -289
International reserves                          161       437        548       609        772       917         814        977      1061     1229    1376   1556       2681
Of which:  Gold                              21         85        82        104       154        360         415        360       360      360     360      360      360
Reserves as nonths imports                      2.0       1.7        1.8       1.7        2.1       2.1         1.7         1.8      1.8       1.q    1.9      1.9      1.q
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT a/
Gross disbursen.ents                            175       664        736      1785       1191      1434
Concessional loans                           ..        164       121        634       334        321
DAC                                       ..       109         73       107        100        76
OPEC                                      ..        42         41       507        189       179
IDA                                       ..         I          4          3         -         -
Other                                     ''        13          3         17        45         66
Noo-concesabonal loass                       ..        500       614       1151       857       1113
Official export credits                   ..          3        22        27          2          2
IBRD                                      16       110         59        68         72       137
Other -ssltila.eral                       ..          7         2          7        51          7
Private                                   25       380        531      1049        732       967
Suppliers credits                     ..        127        10        171        10          8
Fisancial credits and bonds           ..        253       521        878       722        959
E.ternal Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed              703      1753       2341      4078       5139       6185       6987
Official                                  ..      1121      1261       1984       2473      2842        3212
Private                                   ..       632      1080       2094      2666       3343        3775
llndisbursed debt                           239        652       805       1026      2263       2246
Debt service
Total service pay.nets                       58        145       162        265       548        799       1023
Interest                                  23        50         66       148        252       411         533
Paysseots an X exports of GoS               7.5        5.6       7.1       10.7      18.5       21.6       23.7
Average isterest rate on new loans ()              4.4        7.3       7.5        6.8       6.9        8.3
Average maturity of sew loans (years)             18.5       14.7      12.2       13.1      13.3       15.8
As % of Debt Outstanding at fnd of Most Recent Year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                 38.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                                73.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                 6.9
April 20, 1981
EMENA CP I-8
a/ From IBRD External Debt Reporting System. There are sizeable discrepancies in none years between tho external capital and debt service flows
reported under tbe 1BRD Debt System and those recorded in the official balance of payments statistics shown in the upper part of this table.
e/ Estimated.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                           US0  Million_
Credit                                                                 Amount   (less cancellations)
Number         Year       Borrower                Purpose              Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Eighteen       Loans      Fully disbursed                              392.9
Four           Credits   Fully disbursed                                           36.0
1017           1974       Maroc-Phosphore         Industry              50.0                    0.4
1018           1974       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             32.0                   11.5
555           1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                        14.0        12.6
1123           1975       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             18.5                    2.3
1201           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             30.0                    9.4
1202           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                 21.0                   12.9
1220-T         1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education               25.0                   21.5
1299           1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   49.0                    1.9
1361           1977       CNCA                    Agriculture           35.0                    0.0*
1383           1977       CIOR                    Industry              45.0                    0.7
1416           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             41.0                   39.8
1428           1977       BNDE                    DFC                   45.0                   19.1
S-7           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering              1.5                    1.1
1528           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                       15.9
1602           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             65.0                   62.7
1625           1978       Maroc-Phosphore         Industry              50.0                   13.9
1681           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education              113.0                  112.9
1687           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               25.0                   16.9
1695           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   42.0                   41.9
1704           1979       CNCA                    Agriculture           70.0                   56.9
1724           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            49.0                   43.7
1757           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             58.0                   53.3
S-18           1980       BRPM                    Oil Exploration       50.0                   42.5
1830           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                 62.0                   62.0
18481/         1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             34.0                   34.0
1943           1981       CIH                     Tourism              100.0                  100.0
1944!/         1981       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                       36.0
Total                                                           1557.9**    50.0        825.8
of which has been repaid                                       186.4        0.8
Total now outstanding                                           1373.0       49.2
Amount Sold                                  20.1
of which has been repaid                  17.7                   2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                  1369.1       49.2
Total undisbursed                                                813.2        12.6      825.8
NOTE
1/ Not vet effective.
*    US $40,783.65 undisbursed.
** An $87 million loan for a Third Water Supply Project was approved on May 28, 1981, but has
yet to be signed.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of April 30, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan     Equity   Total
1963/1978           BNDE                          Development Bank           -        2.7       2.7
1966                CIL                           Canning Factory           0.9       0.5       1.4
1976                Marrakech Cement              Cement Factory             -        1.4       1.4
1977                Temara Cement                 Cement Factory            4.8       3.5       8.3
1980                SOMIFER                       Copper Mining            13.0       2.3      15.3
Total Gross Commitments                                                18.7      10.4      29.1
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales           13.7       3.4      17.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      17.5       9.2      2o.7
Total Undisbursed                                                       4.0       0.4       4.4



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
C.       PROJECTS IN EXECUTION  /
Ln. No. 1018        Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The project as originally appraised was completed in November 1980,
except for the procurement of sugarcane transport equipment ($0.7 million).
Funds have been virtually fully committed for the costs of additional
infrastructure works foreseen under an amendment to the Loan Agreement made
in July 1980.
Ln. No. 1123        Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The tube wells required for new irrigated areas (6,400 ha) were
completed and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing
and distribution as well as construction of the Project Headquarters and
Development Centers have been completed. Works related to the social
components of the project which suffered from substantial delay are now
underway. Budgetary constraints facing Morocco resulted in cutbacks in the
operating budget and held back the assignment of additional personnel,
causing 2 years delay in project implementation, and consequent cost
overruns. A revised work program has been prepared to reflect this.
Agricultural yields are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million
of June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
momentum. Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and works have
been started in the remaining three districts. Progress is slower than
expected, mainly because project implementation proves more complex than
anticipated. However, the first results of the completed components are
promising. Because of the initial delay and the complexity in
implementation, the original closing date was extended by three years.
1/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered, and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and
with the undertanding that they do not purport to present a
balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
Ln. No. 1201 Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha.,
infrastructure and equipment and a research laboratory on bilharzia.
Construction of irrigation and drainage works is nearly complete. The first
4,600 ha. have been completed and put in service. Completion of the remainder
is underway. Agricultural development has been satisfactory. The loan is
expected to be closed on schedule.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness; October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project consists of infrastructure works and public facilities
for developing Agadir into a major tourism area. Most infrastructure works
were completed in December 1980, except for the construction of public
facilities (representing some 20% of the total project costs). This delay is
mainly due to administrative and project management problems. Project
completion is expected to be delayed by about 18 months, and an extension of
the closing date will be considered.
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agriculture, health and tourism. After an initial two-year delay,
there bas been improvement in project implementation. Construction of primary
schools, secondary schools, a teacher training college and a rural development
and extension training center is largely completed. Construction is well
underway for other components. Disbursements under the loan are expected to
increase in the near future. However, there is an overall delay of two years
in project implementation.
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira dam, of a
120-MW power station including a 225-KV substation and of about 200 km of
225-KV transmission line, and the preparation of preliminary designs and bid
documents for the Merija compensating dam and power station. The dam,
reservoir power plant, and one transmission line have been completed and
commissioned. The second transmission line is under construction. The
project should be fully completed in the near future and disbursements are on
schedule.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1361 Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million of
February 7, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production and
at expanding the capability of the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA)
as an agricultural lending institution. The project covered most of CNCA's
program for medium- and long-term lending through August 1979 and included
related technical assistance. Disbursements of IBRD funds aim at financing
on-farm investments of small farmers, cooperatives and farmers' associations.
Virtually all the Bank loan is disbursed, with the exception of funds for
technical assistance, for which disbursements began only in late 1980. The
loan is expected to be closed on schedule.
Ln No. 1383   CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 19, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distribution
facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory. Training of key
personnel is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate. The cement plant
started operation in January 1979, and the distribution center, in July 1980.
The Bank loan has been virtually fully disbursed.
Ln. No. 1416  Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco which caused an initial delay of about
two years. However, project implementation has resumed vigorously and the
initial delay may be fully recovered.
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness:  December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement E.onomique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of specific industrial enterprises, and of a small-scale industry
pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank financing is included. The
loan is virtually fully committed and about two-thirds disbursed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. S-7   Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 18, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a priority first stage project. It
would assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban
sewer systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation has been delayed by about
15 months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1528  Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services bousing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. Construction is proceeding
satisfactorily; however, there has been some delay in the non-physical aspects
of the project.
Ln. No. 1602 Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-Tissa
region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production and to
a reduction in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These aims
would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension and soil conservation services, training, the provision of credit
and infrastructure. Although somewhat delayed, implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily, due to excellent project management and good interagency
coordination.
Ln. No. 1625 Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of existing production facilities
at Safi through (a) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore
plant, of an additional unit and ancillary facilities to produce for export
165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid, and (b) the construction of sulphur melting
and storage facilities as well as of new phosphoric acid concentration and



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
storage facilities. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily and
commercial operations have begun. Maroc Phosphore's technical management
appears satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1681 Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project consists of (i) construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College; (ii) technical assistance associated with
the project items and for strengthening the Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of National Education; (iii) pre-investment designs. Implementation
has been proceeding slowly.
Ln. No. 1687 Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
US025.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a new Government program to
assist small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The extremely strong demand for this kind of credit has
resulted in virtually full commitment of the loan within the first year of the
project.
Ln. No. 1695 Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in 220 villages located in 17 provinces. Administrative and budgetary
problems have initially delayed project start-up. Consultants have been
recruited and are engaged on the project. Procurement of engineering services
is in progress.
Ln. No. 1704 Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project will cover most of the Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole's (CNCA's) medium- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through August 1982. Cofinancing of $75 million is provided by IFAD
and KfW. Disbursements are on schedule, CNCA's financial position may become
tight due to the recent drought, but its lenders, including the Bank, are
considering an increase in their disbursement percentages which should
alleviate CNCA's problems.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1724 Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies of
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
have created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections, and the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1757 Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million of
November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical as5istance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall production did uiot
progress as scheduled due to the cold winter. However, for the first
time since 1972/73, total exports have been higher than in preceeding years.
Ln. No. S-18 Petroleum Exploration Project; US$50 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the petroleum
exploration and development efforts of the Bureau de Recherches et
Participation Miniere (BRPM), the national enterprise for oil and mineral
exploitation and development (excluding phosphates). It also provides
technical assistance in prospect evaluation, analysis of results of
exploration, and exploration management. Drilling has been started with
encouraging results and some of the consultants have been hired.
Administrative problems delayed initial disbursements.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1830 Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness; September 29, 1980; Closing Date; June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transportation to improve
transportation planning. The project is progressing satisfactorily. All
contracts for the first year of implementation have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1848 Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Not yet effective; Closing Date;
June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of;
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land. Project effectiveness has been delayed for
administrative reasons.
Ln. No. 1943 Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date; December 31, 1985.
The project would provide funds over a three year period to the
Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing
in the tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels. It
also includes studies for developing policies in the tourism sector and
training of CIH staff in appraisal methodologies for tourism projects.
Ln. No. 1944 Second Urban Development Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Not yet effective; Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
The project would support the Government's efforts to provide
shelter, basic services and employment to low-income urban families through a
program to be implemented in the cities of Meknes and Kenitra. Although the
project is not yet effective, implementation is underway and ahead of schedule.



- 36 -
Annex III
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NINTH BNDE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                   About six months (June 1980
through November 1980)
(b) Agency which prepared the project:              Banque Nationale pour le
Developpement (BNDE).
(c) Project first presented to Bank:               June 1980
(d) First Bank mission to review the Project:  June 1980
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission:                October 25, 1980
(f) Completion of negotiations:                    May 1981
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:                 October 31, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
No special action necessary.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)    BNDE to achieve and not exceed debt-equity ratio of 10:1 as of
January 1, 1982 (paragraph 56);
(b)    debt service ratio to be maintained at 1.1 from January 1982
onwards (paragraph 57);
(c)    BNDE to use at 20 percent of the proposed loan to finance
export-oriented subprojects (paragraph 65);
(d)    BNDE to implement plan of action to secure payment of arrears due
from four borrowers (paragraph 60);
(e)    BNDE to mobilize resources to finance its operations up to end-1983
(paragraph 62).



