Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4C,A  32/1C"
Report No. 7434-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 14, 1989
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1988)
Currency Unit =   Moroccan Dirham (DH)
US$1.00            DH8.1
DH1.O0        =   US$0,123
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR (AY)
September to June
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         African Development Bank
CNCPRST     National Research Center
"Centre National de Coordination et de Planification de la
Recherche Scientifique et Technique"
COPE        Vocational Guidance and School Mapping Institute
"Centre d'Orientatinn et de Planification de l'Education"
DHSPA       MOE Division of School Hygiene and Accident Prevention
"Division de l'liygiene Scolaire et de la Pr6vention des
Accidents"
DSPSM       MOE Department of School Planning and School Mapping
"Direction de la Planification de l'Education"
ESRP        Education Sector Reform Program
MOE         Ministry of Education
MOPH        Ministry of Public Health
MOF         Ministry of Finance
PEP         Primary Education Program
SCHSU       MOPH Central Service for School and University Hygiene
"Service Central d'Hygiene Scolaire et Universitaire"
TTI         Teacher Training Institution
WFP         World Food Program



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   .......................................    iii
I.    THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Background   ............................................                   1
B. Sector Development Strategy:
The Education Sector Reform Program ....               .............   1
Other Education and Training Project Experience    .....               3
C. Issues in Primary Education   ...........................                   3
Access to Primary Schooling in Rural Areas  ....            ......     4
Participation in Rural Primary Education   ....             .......    4
Quality of Primary Education ........................                  6
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Services               ........    9
Budgetary Allocations to Primary Education ....             ......    10
II. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction   ..........................................                 11
B. Project Objectives and Scope   ..........................                 11
C. Detailed Project Description   ..........................                 12
Increased Access and Improved Facilities   ....            .......    12
Increased Participation   ............................    13
Improved Quality   ...................................                14
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation   ....              ............    17
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Costs   .........................................                 18
B. Project Financing   .....................................                 21
C. Project Management and Implementation    ....               ............    22
D. Maintenance   ...........................................                 24
E. Procurement   ...........................................                 24
F. Status of Preparation   .................................                 26
G. Disbursements   .........................................                 27
H. Special Account   .......................................                 27
I. Accounts and Audits   ...................................                 28
J. Suspension Remedies   ...................................                 28
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits   ..............................................                 28
B. Risks   .................................................                 29
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   ....................                  30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Morocco in
June/July  1988.   Mission members were  Daniel Viens  (mission leader),  Julian
Schweitzer, Helen Abadzi, Barbara Szaszkiewicz, Salim Habayeb (World Bank), and
Eid Dib (consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
Table of Contents (Continued)
Annexes:
1. Evolution of Public-School Enrolments by Level
2. Evolution of the Ministry of Education Budget as a Share of Total
Government and GDP
3. Education Sector Reform Loan (2664-MOR) - Status of Special Conditions,
Other Measures and Progress to Date
4. Evolution of Primary Level Enrolment, Net Enrolment Ratio and Gross
Participation Rate by Milieu and by Sex
5. Evolution of Internal Efficiency at Primary Level and Transition Rate from
Primary to Lower Secondary Level
6. World Bank Group Lending in the Education and Training Sector
7. Primary Education Program
8. Primary School Coverage in Selected Provinces
9. Evolution of the 'linistry of Education Budget by Category of Expenditure
and by Level of Education
10. Evolution of the Ministry of Education Recurrent Budget for Primary
Education
11. Projected Requirements for Additional Classrooms
12. Comparative Education Indicators
Schedules:
1. Implementation Schedule - Civil Works
2. Implementation Schedule - Furniture, Equipment and Materials
3. Implementation Schedule - Technical Assistance
4. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Charts:
1. Ministry of Education - Organizational Chart
2. Ministry of Public Health - Organizational Chart
Map: IBRD Reference No. 21270



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basic Data
Country Data (1987)
Per Capita GNP:                                  US$620
Total Population:                                 23.0 million
Population growth rate:                           2.5%
Education (1987-88)
Enrolment                    Enrolment Ratio 2
Total   Female     Net3          Gross    Net 4 Female
('000)  as % Tot. ('000)                           Net
Level
Primary
(Grades 1-5)     2,177      38.6%   1,835           71.9%  60.6%    48.2%
Lower Secondary
(Grades 6-9)     1,009     40.2%      695          46.5%  32.0%    26.6%
Upper Secondary
(Grades 10-12)     340      38.0%     117          23.4%  11.1%      8.9%
University            169      34.2%      NA           4.7%5  NA        NA
Public Expenditures on Education (1987)
Central government education budget
as a % of total government budget:                           21.5%
Central government education budget
as a % of GDP:                                                6.8%
Central government investment budget for
education as a % of government
investment budget:                                           12.6%
Central government recurrent budget for
education as a % of government recurrent
budget:                                                      29.1%
1Public plus private schooling.
2 Total enrolments as % of population in relevant age group.
3 Net enrolments equal total enrollments minus over-aged students.
4Net enrolments as % of population in relevant age group.
5 5.5% if students abroad included



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
EURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:              US$83 million equivalent
Terms:               20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Project Description: The proposed project would support government's efforts to
implement rapid, yet sustainable expansion and improvement of
primary education in rural areas. The objectives of the project
are: to increase access to primary schooling: to increase rural
primary education participation, particularly for females; to
improve the quality of primary education; to strengthen planning,
monitoring and evaluation  capacity;  and  to  strengthen  the
efficient and rational utilization of resources in the primary
education subsector. The proposed project would provide school
facilities in under-supplied areas.   It would increase rural
primary education participation by improving the accessibility
and affordability of textbooks and educational materials and
supporting community initiatives to encourage families to send
children to school. It would also support quality improvements
through: the development of curriculum and standardized
achievement testing; improved effectiveness of teacher selection,
pre- and in-service training, and deployment of teachers in rural
areas;   improved  multigrade  teaching;   strengthened  school
management; introduction of health education in primary school
curriculum; improved delivery of school health services in
collaboration with the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH); and,
carrying out of a study on the provision of eyeglasses at low cost
to low income rural school children.   The project would also
strengthen MOE school mapping services, and the monitoring and
impact evaluation capacity of MOE.  Finally, it would improve
efficiency in the utilization of resources and elaborate a
building and equipment maintenance program.
Benefits and Risks:  The proposed project is expected to increase participation in
rural primary education. By project completion in 1995, rural
enrolments are expected to increase by about 38%, with
participation of girls increasing by 75%. Innovative approaches
for increasing enrolment rates of rural girls would be tested.
Student achievement is expected to rise as a result of improved
quality of teachers and curricula and improved availability of
instructional materials. The growth of incremental expenditures
due to enrolment growth will be contained througii rationalization
of teacher employment, training resources and policies, non-
teaching staff allocation, and establishment of non-salary
budgetary allocation norms for primary education. Nevertheless,
Government may face pressure to divert funds away from critical



iv
nonsalary expenditures in the primary education subsector.
Special attention has been given to establishing the basis of
appropriate budgetai} allocations within the education sector
through a specific minimum investment program, and the design
and regular monitoring of specific technical norms for non-salary
expenditures.   The project dlso includes several experimental
components (notablr provision of low-cost textbooks to school
cooperatives, and activities to promote female participation
including a wide range of local community initiatives) whose
outcomes are uncertain.  The initiatives have however obtained
clear endorsement from central authorities and will be monitored
systematically during project execution.
Estimated Proiect Costs
Local a/     Foreign         Total
-----------(US$ Million)------------
A. Increased access                            77.1            48.7            125-8
B. Increased participation                      3.8             5.6              9.4
C. Improved quality                             1.6             4.7              6.3
D. Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation                                 0.6             1.9              2.5
Total Base Costs                            83.1            60.9            144.0
Physical Contingencies                       5.4             4.0              9.4
Price Contingencies                          6.8             4.8             11.6
Total Project Costs                         95.3            59.7            165.0
Financing Plan
Government                                  42.0                             42.0
IBRD                                        36.5           46.5             83.0
ADB                                         16.8            23.2             40.0
Total                                       95,3            69.7            165.0
a/    Including $25 m in taxes and duties.



v
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                    90      91     92      93      94     95      96
----------------(US$ Million)---------------
Annual                           8.0   11.0   23.0   15.0  13.0   11.0    2.0
Cumlulative                      8.0   19.0   42.0   57.0  70.0   81.0   83.0
Rate of Return: Not Applicable



I - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Background.
1.01        Government efforts in education and training since Independence
(1956) have focussed on quantitative and qualitative improvements to meet the
needs of a growing economy. Formal education is under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Education (MOE) and includes primary (five years), lower and upper
secondary (four and three years respectively), post-secondary technical
education, and higher education, including teacher training, and the
universities1.  Private schooling at all levels is nxpanding from a low base,
mostly in urban areas, and accounts for all modern and Quranic pre-schooling and
about 4% of primary and 5% of secondary education enrolments.
1.02        The 1970s and early 1980s saw rapid enrolment growth, especially at
secondary and post-secondary levels (Annex 1). As a result, recurrent education
expenditures grew very fast, reaching a peak of ?9% of total government recurrent
expenditures in 1987, compared with 14% in 19L. (Annex 2). The rapid growth of
public expenditures for secondary and post-secondary education resulted in
insufficient attention and resources for primary education. As a result, primary
education enrolment has grown relatively slowly and in 1987-88, 39% of the
primary school cohort (excluding overage students) were still not in school, as
compared to 43% in 1983-84.
1.03        This expansi.on toolk place against a background of slower economic
growth, deterioration of the balance-of-payments and serious fiscal deficits.
As a result, public investments in education were severely curtailed, declining
in real terms by nearly 40% between 1982 and 1985. Moreover, scarce resources
were used overwhelmingly to accommodate growing enrolments, especially at
secondary and post-secondary levels while complementary expenditures needed to
sustain and improve the quality of education were neglected.  Aware of these
shortcomings, the Government embarked in 1985 with Bank assistance, on a program
of reforms in the educacion sector.
B. Sector Develolment Strategy: The Education Sector Reform Program.
1.04        In 1985, the Government launched the Education Sector Reforr. Program
(ESRP) which the Bank is supporting through the FY86 Education Sector Reform Loan
(2664-MOR). The objectives of the Reform Program are to provide more equitable
and cost-effective education consistent with the country's medium-term
development needs.  This is to be achieved, inter alia, by: (a) allocating a
larget share of resources to and improving attendance in primary education; (b)
improving educational efficiency in terms of accelerated student flows; and (c)
containing the growth of public expenditures on education.  During the first
phase of the ESRP (1986-1988), the new orientations for the education system and
the framework for future controlled expansion of primary and secondary levels
were to be established.  At the same time, the Government was to develop new
pedagogical programs to improve the quality of education and to introduce
additional measures to improve efficiency.   These new programs were to be
1 Starting in 1990, MOE is committed to introduce a 9-year basic education
cycle comprising six years of primary education and three years of lower
secondary education.



- 2 -
implemented in phases and would be fully realized by the end of the century.
A summary of policy measures and progress achieved on key conditions and
performance targets agreed in the Education Reform Program is attached in Annex
3. Major achievements are summarized below.
1.05        At primary and secondary levels,  the ESRP has already produced
significant achievements. Attendance and retention in primary schooling have
increased. Between Academic Year (AY) 1985-86 and 1987-88, new entrants in Grade
1 increased by 17% over the previous five years' average in urban areas, and by
9% in rural areas (Annex 4).   During the same period, the total number of
repeaters and dropouts decreased by 26% and 23% respectively, thus increasing
significantly the number of primary students completing primary cycle (Annex 5).
Access to lower secondary education improved. The transition rate from primary
to lower secondary level increased from 49% of Grade 5 enrollees (between AY
1984-85 and 1985-86) to 61% (between 1986-87 and 1986-87) (Annex 5). Expansion
of upper secondary schooling was controlled through stringent selection criteria,
while a growing number of Grade 9 students were admitted to short-duration
vocational training programs. Efficiency in use of educational resources was
improved. This was achieved through reduced unit costs of primary and secondary
school construction and improved productivity of education personnel with
increases in teacher's workload at secondary level.  New pedagogical programs
were developed by local task forces under the Nlational Research Center (CNCPRST)
which provided effective leadership, coordination and monitoring. These programs
include inter-alia: (a) introduction of remedial instruction in the revised Grade
curriculum initroduced in 1987-88;  (b) development of learning achievement
testing materials in the revised curriculum; and, (c) establishment of a data
base on school mapping in the context of extension of multigrade teaching in
rural areas.
1.06        In higher education, the ESRP has also resulted in importaTr  gains.
These are: limitation of expansion to a few priority facilities; increased
working hours (20%) for teaching staff; increased retention rates; and,
strengthened control of scholarships through mandatory reduction / suspension
upon failure in year-end examinations. However, performance falls short in two
crucial areas:  first, new intakes at university level in AY 1987-88 by 21%,
because of the intense social demand, though the growth of new entrants had been
maintained to its target of 2% in 1985-86 and 1986-87 (as compared to an average
of 13% between 1975 and 1984). Provisional results for 1988-89 show the same
level as in 1987-88. This is partly due to the introduction, in 1987-88, of a
new 3-year cumulative assessment system which has substantially lowered the
number of university candidates.   It is too early to predict the long-term
effects of this system. Second, direct cost recovery in the form of nationwide
fees at university have not yet been introduced, although the relevant
legislative framework has been approved by Parliament.   The absence of more
effective mechanisms to regulate access to Government subsidies as the higher
education system expands - as it ultimately should - has had a detrimental effect
on other levels of education since the additional costs incurred because of
increased enrolments have absorbed savings from efficiency measures which could
have been available to primary education. This has serious medium- and long-
term implications for the reform program:   (a) investment expenditures for



- 3 -
primary and secondary levels might be reduced to accomodate expanding enrolments
in higher education; and for (b) unit recurrent expenditures in the higher
education subsector, especially for essential non-salary items (such as
libraries, laboratories, and specialized equip'i ,nt maintenance and replacement),
might continue to fall to levels which will severely compromise the quality of
education.
1.07        To allow more time to resolve the serious issues in this subsector,
it was decided, in December 1987, not to pursue preparation of the planned second
overall education sector operation. Instead, the Government and the Bank are
examining through sector work a set of alternative options that might reconcile
social pressures for expanded access to free education and the need to mobilize
alternative sources of financing within the subsector, particularly in the
context of greater management autonomy at the individual university establishment
level.  Meanwhile, it was decided to maintain the momentum of reforms in the
primary and secondary subsectors through priority subsector investment operations
directed at expanding and improving primary education, providing universal access
to primary schooling by the beginning of the next century, and improving lower
secondary education access. The proposed project is the first of these subsector
investments; a follow-up operation to address secondary education issues is at
the identification stage. To protect needed investments for priority subsectors,
the Government formulated, In consultation with the Bank, program of minimum
public investments in line with Sector priorities defined in the Education Reform
Program.
1.08        Other Education and Training Project Experience.   The Bank has
supported education development in Morocco through eight education / training
loans since 1963, four of which are ongoing (Annex 6).  Bank lending in the
sector, consistent with government needs and prior.t-:ies,   has shifted from
rein.orcing specific types of educational institutions, to strengthening
employment-oriented skill training and more broadly, supporting structural
reforms to improve the efficiency and financial viability of education at all
levels. The first five projects, which have closed or will be closed by end-
March 1989, supported expansion and improved quality of primary and secondary
education, and teacher training and technical training at secondary and post-
secondary leve s. In addition, two recent vocational training projects (FY85
and FY87) extended Bank involvement in middle-level skills training in order to
meet industrial-sector manpower needs. Finally, the eighth operative Sector Loan
discussed in paras. 1.04 to 1.07, is fully committed and expected to close later
this year. Bank lending reflects key lessons from previous projects, such as
the need for adequate staffing in the implementing agency, interministerial
coordination, and realistic implementation targets. A Standing Commission with
representatives from all concerned Departments was established under the
Education Sector Reform Loan to ensure effective interministerial coordination
and timely implementation by all MOE authorities.



-4-
C. Issues in Primary Education.
1.09        To correct imbalances between urban and rural areas, especially for
girls, the Government is addressing the key issues in the primary education
subsector, namely: (a) access i-) primary schools in remote rural areas; despite
progress made, primary education in Morocco is still not available within a
reasonable distance (approximately 3 km) to all rural population; (b) low
participation in rural primary schools, especially for girls. In 1987-88, new
entrants in Grade 1 accounted for some 34% of rural girls and 69% of rural boys
of age 7, compared to 85% and 89%, respectively, in urban areas (Annex 4) 1; (c)
the need to attract and maintain children inL school, and improve benefits for
the individual and society; (d) the need for efficiency improvements in planning,
motnitoring and evaluating programs designed specifically to deliver sustainable
educational services; and (e) the gradual reallocation of resources to primary
education in order to sustain its expansion.   The Government is introducing
specific measures to address these issues whilst at the same time containing
education costs and sustaining quality improvements.
1.10        Access to Primary Schooling in Rural Areas.  In areas where school
facilities already exist, about 5,000 additional classrooms are required to
accommodate the primary school-age population (still growing at about 2% per
year net of rural-urban migration) and the increased flow of Grade 6 students
starting in September 1990 (para.  1.01).   In addition,  about 6,500 small
communities (or about 22% of villages (douars) with population below 1,000) have
no primary school (Annex 8). In order to improve access to primary schooling
at reasonable unit cost in under-supplied and non-supplied areas, MOE is
accelerating provision of prefabricated classrooms.   MOE is also relying on
sequential shifts (whereby two classrooms accommodate three classes on a six-
day schedule, for 30 hours per week of class contact) and multi-grade teaching
- a practice tnat is now used more extensively.   A key constraint to the
expansion of rural primary education is the difficulty in attracting and keeping
teachers in rural schools because of the lack of housing in surrounding
communities.   MOE is already providing staff housing at nominal charge in
priority cases supported by the ESRP (Annex 3). To encourage school attendance,
MOE is planning to continue its school lunch program introduced with WFP support,
and equip rural schools with modest canteen facilities. In addition, to ensure
provision of water for school canteens and staff housing, and to promote schoJ1
health and hygienic behavior, MOE is planning to start a pilot program to build
low-cost wells and sanitary facilities in about 120 schools.
1.11        MOE is giving priority in the selection of new school locations to
communities contributing directly or indirectly to the school environment, such
as: donation of the site, site fencing, provision of local construction materials
1 Overall gross enrollment indicators of 72% nationally (87% male and 57%
female) significantly overstate effective participation, by relating the entire
population (including large numbers of overage children who have repeated one
or more years) to the primary school-age cohort.



(sand, stones, etc.) and manpower; and, provision of housing for the teacher(s)
in the community.   Priority is given to husband/wife teams and single women
teachers. These criteria are now being applied by Provincial School Construction
Divisions as part of the regular school construction program.
1.12        ParticiRation in Rural Primary Education. Differences between rural
and urban school attendance and between rural male and female attendance in
particular can be attributed not only to inadequate access to schools, but also
by the differential impact of the costs of education and its perceived benefits,
socio-cultural traditions and attitudes regarding girls' schooling and the poor
delivery of educational services which affect private returns to schooling.
1.13        The cost of education is a key consideration in a family's decision
to send children to school.   The direct costs  (i.e.  required textbooks,
educational materials, sometimes additional food and clothing requirements)
represent a substantial share of annual household income for most low-income
rural families '. Recent studies indicate that these costs are a main deterrent
to female enrolment. The opportunity cost of education in terms of foregone cash
income and time spent in school activities is proportionately higher for low-
income families. Children play an important role in the subsistence activities
of the household in rural areas.   Moreover, girls traditionally contribute
earlier than boys to income-generating and household activities, and their labor
is identified with the most immediate needs of the family. Boys' contributions
are expected later. As a result, girls' schooling may be perceived as irrelevant
and too expensive, while boys' may be justified in terms of improved ability to
provide support later to their parents.   However, these simple paradigms of
household income, expenditure, labor force participation, and savings decisions,
while intuitively plausible, are obviously subject to wide variations in regional
and local circumstances and have not yet been the subject of systematic empirical
research in Morocco.
1.14        Textbooks and school materials represent the largest share of direct
costs of education. Though unit costs for textbooks are reasonable (US$1.00 to
US$ 1.50), and readily available in urban areas, they are not always available
in rural areas and markups through low-volume general-purpose retailers are
high. To stimulate community involvement in the acquisition of textbooks, MOE
enables school cooperatives to buy books directly from the publishers at a 25%
discount. However, lack of seed funds, administrative bottlenecks and ignorance
of the procurement procedures have until now resulted in a limited use of this
facility. Mt?E plans to revitalize the role of school cooperatives on the basis
of successful recent experience in few Provincial Delegations.
1.15        As evidenced from other developing countries, especially in Islamic
I Recent studies indicate that the direct costs of schooling per child
could represent between 5% at primary and 10 % at secondary level of annual
household cash expenditures for rural families whose total spending is less than
US$500 per year, which is a majority of all rural households.



- 6 -
areas, female teachers help overcome parents' reluctance to send their daughters
to school. Although there are adequate numbers of females in teacher training
institutions to assign to rural schools, prospects for doing so are constrained
by: (a) reluctance of "urbanized" teacher trainees to accept assignments in rural
areas; and (b) lack of suitable housing in surrounding communities. To address
these issues, MOE is revising selection criteria and assignment policies for
primary school teachers (para. 1.21), and is providing, under the impetus of the
ESRP, suitable housing in surrounding communities (para. 1.10).
1.16        Pressures to leave school at an early age are stronger in rural
environment.   When girls reach puberty they are not allowed to travel long
distances to school, especially in twilight hours.   The seasonal nature of
agricultural work may also conflict with the academic calendar. Parents are more
likely to send their children to school if it reflects the rhythm of economic
activity and prevailing moral concerns. MOE is introducing flexible scheduling
in primary schools to adjust more fully to rural community life.
1.17        Initial enrolments are generally at the level expected in new schools
in rural areas, which reflects parents' favorable overall attitude towards modern
primary schooling;   attendance however, often decreases thereafter, probably
reflecting parental perception of the poor quality of educational services. The
main problems identified in opinion surveys and supervision visits include poorly
motivated teachers, discontinuity in teacher assignments, lack of communication
between the teacher / school principal and the community, and unavailability of
instructional  materials.    It  is  therefore  important  to  provide  quality
improvements aimed at increasing participation of rural children.
1.18        Ouality of Primary Education.  To increase participation in primary
education in the rural areas, MOE is increasingly emphasizing quality issues
which relate to: (a) adapting curricula and developing standardized achievement
testing; (b' attracting, training and maintaining motivated teachers who adapt
to the rural community environment; (c) improving multi-grade teaching practices;
(d) strengthening school management; and, (e) developing new approaches to
strengthen school health services in collaboration with the Ministry of Public
Health (MOPH).
1.19        Under the impetus of the ESRP, MOE has embarked on a program of
revising the basic education curriculum (Grades 1-9). The revised curriculum
was introduced in AY 1987-88 for Grade 1 and in AY 1988-89 for Grade 2.
Replacement of all subjects the same year, for any given grade, without adequate
in-service training of all teachers has created implementation problems. The
Government is therefore shifting to a gradual substitution of subjects, with
emphasis on a few subjects which could be replaced in several grades at once and
whose revision is a matter of high priority (i.e. mathematics and science). This
cycle of curriculum revision is expected to last a decade, and curriculum
evaluation and updating will thereafter become a continuous process every five
years. Concurrentlv, standardized achievement testing is scheduled to replace
the low-reliability, essay-type examinations now given at the end of primary
school. Considerable expertise, however, will have to be deployed to sustain



a curriculum development program of such magnitude and to lay the foundations
for the development of standardized achievement testing.
1.20        Significant increases in university enrolments have recently led to
recruitment of teacher trainees among university graduates rather than
Baccalaureat holders (the official minimum entry qualification) because the
former usually score higher on academically-oriented entrance examinations. Since
they are the only selection criteria used, they are therefore biased toward
"urbanized" graduates, who are then reluctant to accept assignments in rural
areas; yet, new teaching positions are available primarily in the rural areas
where the system will need to continue to expand much faster than population
growth for the rest of the century. Although the entry pay scale is the same
regardless of academic qualifications (grade 8 of the national salary scale for
teachers), university graduates are permitted to apply for grade promotion within
two years after entry in the profession, while Baccalaureat holders must remain
longer at the initial level. The growing, cumulative, representation of
university graduates (currently 5% of all primary level teachers) may lead to
a significant increase in the wage bill which is linked neither to classroom
performanse nor to additional teaching or managerial responsibilities.
1.21        The Government is introducing specific measures to correct this
situation, such as modified selection procedures and recruitment criteria to
identify candidates with, increasingly, only the minimum formal academic
requirement, but who can be expected to become effective primary teachers and
are considered most likely to accept lengthy assignments in rural areas within
their region of origin. Local authorities are to participate more actively in
the recruitment process and identify candidates whose profile and career
objectives correspond more closely to rural assignments. Regulations regarding
a two-year compulsory service in rural areas are to be strictly enforced.
Teachers are to be given extra points for every year of service in rural areas
when applying for promotion to administrative positions in rural areas. Career
progression criteria and rules are to be revised to incorporate additional
responsibilities (including assignments to multi-grade classes and assistant
principals in satellite schools).   In addition, staff housing facilities are
provided in remote areas to attract teachers and facilitate integration with the
community (para. 1.10).
1.22        To improve academic and pedagogic qualifications of teachers, the
training program for primary school teachers will be increased from one to two
years and focus on teaching methodology for all primary-level subjects and
include an extensive teaching practice assignment. However, the program still
contains no instructional units on multigrade teaching, effective teaching
strategies,  or school administration.   There is no systematic program of
continuous in-service training. In the future, pre-service training program is
to include additional instructional units and teaching practice in rural area,
and in-service training programs for rural teachers, resident or on-site, are
to be developed.
1.23        In small rural communities where the number of students in a grade
(7 or less) does not justify opening individual classes, MOE relies upon multi-



- 8 -
grade teaching. In 1986-87, 64,000 students (6.3% of total rural enrolment) were
enrolled in approximately 4,000 two-grade classes (8.4% of total classes). It
has been viewed by school principals, teachers and parents in Morocco as a last
resort alternative and utilized exclusively in rural areas when one-grade classes
would be to small to be viable. This perception has been reinforced by lower
levels of academic achievement and higher repetition and dropout rates in
multigrade classes. In the context of the ESRP, an MOE task force has identified
the main obstacles to effective multi-grade teaching and initiated development
of the following remedies on an experimental basis: learning objectives common
to both grades which can be taught at the same time have been identified; common
subjects have been scheduled at the same time and practical activities have been
developed to support lectures; modular sets of exercises have been developed and
independent learning methods have been introduced to permit students to complete
class assignments on their own or in small groups. Teacher training institutions
do not at the moment prepare teachers for multigrade teaching assignments. Since
classes are often located in remote satellite schools, appropriate pedagogical
supervision is ill-adapted or non-existent. The number of multi-grade classes
is expected to increase significantly with new schools in small scattered
communities. MOE intends to strengthen multi-grade teaching practices, teacher
preparation and supervision, and materials.
1.24        To manage rural schools, Morocco has chosen the nuclear system in
which a central, larger school with a full-time principal, oversees 8-12 smaller,
satellite schools of one to three classrooms, in some cases located more than
30 km away. Xlthough the nuclear system is well-suited to rural areas, satellite
school  teachers  are  not  adequately  supervised.    Instead,  central  school
principals have neither been selected nor trained to provide instructional
leadership, have little control on school operations, because most decisions are
made at the central level, and often lack the means to visit schools on a regular
basis. MOE is addressing these issues through a series of measures aimed at
strengthening the roles and responsibilities of the school principals, while
strengthening school management of satellite schools, These measures are: (a)
revision of the role and responsibilities of school principals to include
pedagogical supervision; (b) creation of a new cadre of assistant-principals of
satellite schools, who would be selected among full-time teachers and given
additional responsibilities; and, (c) establishment of a reward system including
extra points earned by undertaking assistant-principal duties, to be applied to
promotion decisions.
1.25        With the assistance of UNICEF and in close collaboration with the
Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), MOE has recently developed health and nutrition
teaching modules and intends to include them in the primary level curriculum.
The delivery of school health services and environmental inspections needs
strengthening through improved managerial and technical capacity and coordination
between MOE and MOPH professional and technical staff. To support this strategy
and promote the development of appropriate action programs, MOE created in 1985
the Division of School Hygiene and Accident Prevention (DHSPA) under the
Secretary General for Primary and Secondary Education (see MOE Organizational
Chart, Chart 1). Similarly, MOPH has recer.ly strengthened its Central Service
for School and University Hygiene (SCHSU) under the responsibility of the



Technical Department (see MOPH Organizational Chart, Chart 2) through appointment
of qualified medical and technical staff at the provincial level.
1.26        The Government is now turning its attention to the main unresolved
school health issues related to: (a) poor coverage, especially in rural areas,
due to lack of resources and ineffective coordination; (b) inefficient delivery
of health education; and, (c) correction of visual deficiencies.  The school
visit program, initiated in the mid-seventies, was intended to reach students
enrolled in four grades at primary and secondary levels, which correspond to
critical periods in the student's life. The visits program includes systematic
medical screening, environmental inspections, and presentations on selected
health topics. However, the program falls short of targeted plans, especially
in rural areas where the coverage does not exceed 40% of targeted groups. Until
now, health education has been provided as part of the school visit program by
MOPH. in the form of short presentations in a sporadic manner, as time permitted.
Moreover, teaching methodology was inadequate and follow-up and evaluation was
non-existent. It is estimated that about 10% of the students at primary level
need visual acuity correction.   In 1987-88, standard visual chart screening
conducted in the course of MOPH visits to schools indicated that 50,000 students
needed eyeglasses. Only a small proportion of families, particularly in urban
areas, had access to and could afford eyeglasses (cost amounting to US$75-125).
Even if the limited and exclusively urban private-sector capacity were to be
developed in the medium-term, it is likely that needy families, especially in
rural areas, would remain deprived of reasonable access to these services at
affordable cost.
1.27        To consolidate its social development strategy, the Government of
Morocco is rightly placing high priority on the development of school health as
an important part of the overall national health strategy.  The Government's
school health strategy provides for the inclusion of health and nutrition
components in the school curriculum, the strengthening of health inspection
services and the promotion of an improved school health environment through the
implementation of a pilot program for the provision of wells and sanitary
facilities (para. 1.10). This strategy is a normal follow-up and consolidation
of priority health programs, in particular the maternal and child health (MCH)
and primary health care.
1.28        Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation Services.  To develop primary
education in rural areas, careful targeting of undersupplied areas, is necessary.
School mapping (school location planning) services, both at central and
provincial levels, are not yet properly equipped to face the challenges of
expanding access to primary schooling in remote rural areas. Although MOE School
Mapping Division at the central level and the 49 School Mapping Units established
at the provincial level are now properly staffed and their performance is
satisfactory, they currently lack the physical means to collect and monitor
efficiently basic information on rural communities not served, school-age
population, population movements, and catchment areas of existing schools.



- 10 -
1.29        MOE monitoring capacity and systems were developed for statistical
reporting purposes. However, neither MOE nor the Faculty of Education (in Rabat)
have expertise and experience to conduct complex evaluative activities in
education.   in addition, there is a lack of communication and feedback among
researchers themselves, and between them and decision-makers. The development
of institutional evaluative expertise is crucial, especially at a time when
creative cost-effective approaches are attempted in different rural environments.
1.30        Budgetary Allocations to Primary Education.  While the Government's
efforts to expand schooling capacity did achieve a significant growth and
diversification of enrolments, they also led to a sharp increase in recurrent
expenditures on education (para. 1.02). As a result of the large increases in
enrolment at secondary and post-secondary levels during the 1970s and early
1980s, the share of MOE recurrent expenditure at primary level decreased to
accommodate this expansion (Annex 9). Budgeted MOE recurrent expenditures at
primary level decreased from 44.2% in 1975 to 35.3% in 1985, whilst during the
same period, secondary and post-secondary recurrent budget share increased from
43.4% and 12.4% to 44.6% and 17.1%, respectively. As a result of policy measures
introduced in the ESRP since 1986, these shares have Leen maintained at the 1985
level.   However, budgetary allocations to non-salary expenditures are still
inappropriaLc-. In 1988, they accounted for only 4.6% of recurrent expenditures
at primary level (Annex 10).   Maintenance for facilities and equipment and
renewal of educational materials receive only 1.3% and 0.2% respectively of MOE
recurrent budget for primary education.   There are no specific budgetary
allocations for teacher supervision and in-service staff training which are
covered by the already insufficient allocations to Teacher Training Institutions
(TTI) and travel allocations.
1.31        In light of the budgetary issues affecting education (paras. 1.02-
1.03), further growth in the education system can only be made in the context
of concerted efforts to control education costs, particularly in higher
education, and to improve the efficiency of educaLion resources at all levels.
MOE plans a series of measures to contain education costs and sustain quality
improvements at primary level.   The following measures are also directed to
improving efficiency at primary and secondary levels through reduction of teacher
and administrative costs per student:
(a) standardizing around existing minimum qualifications (bacalaureate) and
entry pay scale regulations for primary teachers and linking career
progression more closely to experience and responsibilities (para. 1.21);
(b) rationalizing the network of teacher training institutions and improving
student/teacher ratios therein. In 1987-88, some 11,000 teacher trainees
were enrolled in 53 TTIs 1.  Student/teacher ratios in the TTIs are
1 These comprise 31 Centres de Formation des Instituteurs (CFIs) tor primary
level teacher training, 14 Centres Pedagogiques R4gionauy (CPRs) for lower
secondary and, 8 Ecoles Normales Superieures (ENSs) for upper secondary teacher
training.



- 11 -
excessively low at 6.3. In the course of policy discussions under the ESRP
and as part of the PEP, MOE has reduced the number of lower secondary TTIS
from 17 in 1986-87 to 14 in 1987-88.  MOE plans to further reduce the
number of lower- and upper- secondary TTIs by consolidating the training
programs and institutions, redeploying redundant staff to the classroom,
and transferring facilities into secondary schools by 1993; and,
(c) streamlining administrative functions at secondary level through
redeployment of non-teaching staff according to revised staff allocation
rules. Preliminary conclusions of the on-going study on non-teaching staff
in secondary schools indicate overstaffing in certain categories and uneven
distribution in secondary schools.   A large proportion (25%) of non-
teaching staff, most of whom are qualified teachers, woud be reassigned
to teaching functions at primary and secondary levels.
These measures would generate recurrent expenditure savings estimated at US$15.0
million per year when fully implemented in 1995 (equal to all non-salary
expenditures for primary education in 1988), and might lead to deferring
substantial teacher training capacity investments beyond that period.   In
addition, MOE is introducing measures to sustain quality improvements by
establishing specific cost norms and budgetary allocations for primary education
expenditures on educational materials, teacher supervision, staff training, and
school maintenance.
II - THE PROJECT
A. Introduction.
2.01        The proposed project was identified during the early stages of
implementation of the Education Sector Reform Program. The project was prepared
in February/ March 1988 and appraised in June/July 1988. Negotiations were held
in Washington in January, 1989.
B. Project Obiectives and Scope.
2.02        The proposed pro4ect would assist the Government to achieve rapid,
yet sustainable expansion and improvement of primary education. To this end,
and as part of the Government's Primary Education Program (Annex 7), specific
objectives are:
(a) to increase access to primary schooling in rural areas by providing
classrooms and related school facilities (para. 1.10);
(b) to increase rural primary education attendance, particularly for females,
by improving accessibility of educational materials and introducing
community incentives to encourage families to send children to school
(para. 1.14);
(c) to improve the quality of primary education by strengthening curriculum
development and learning achievement testing, improving availability of
educational materials, improving teacher training and deployment, improving



- 12 -
multigrade teaching, strengthening the role of school principals, and
reinforcing school health services (paras. 1.21-1.26);
(d) to strengther- planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity by improving
school mapping services and enhancing monitoring and evaluation
capabilities (paras. 1.28-1.29); and
(e) to strengthen the efficient and rational utilization of resources in
primary education (para. ).
C. Detailed Project Description.
Increased Access and Improved Facilities.
(US$125 million, 88% of total project costs)
2.03        The project would support the Government's  PEP which aims  at
increasing access to primary education in rural areas by: (a) constructing,
furnishing and equipping about 11,600 new classrooms (of which about 40% to
existing schools) and about 1,400 school canteens; (b) constructing and eauipping
about 2,900 new staff houses; (c) furnishing about 1,500 headmasters' offices;
and, (d) constructing on an experimental basis about 120 new sanitary facilities
and about 120 wells in new and existing schools equipped with a school canteen.
Classrooms will have a capacity of 25 places and are expected to be utilized on
average for 1.5 classes with application of the six-day rotation schedule '. As
a result, by project completion in 1995, enrolments in rural primary schools
(boys and girls) are expected to increase by 370,000 (+38%), with participation
of girls increasing by 210,000 (+75%), assuming an 8% dropout rate. The gross
participation rate would reach 79% and 49% of rural boys and girls, as against
73% and 30% in 1987-88, respectively.  During the first two years of project
implementation (1989 and 1990), priority would be given to providing additional
classrooms to existing schools (central and/or satellite) to accommodate students
completing the primary level and to introduce Grade 6 at primary level in
September 1990 (para. 1.11), in accordance with the existing school map.
Thereafter, priority would be given to opening new, mainly satellite, schools
in undersupplied areas according to the revised rural school map to be prepared
during the project (para. 2.20). The distribution of new classrooms is estimated
in Annex 11.
2.04        The project would assist MOE in carrying out a program to encourage
rural communities to participate in the construction and maintenance of primary
facilities (i.e. through provision of site, building materials, housing and
maintenance).
I Under this new schedule implemented in 1986, 3 groups of students are
accommodated in 2 classrooms, each group receiving a total of 30 hours of
instruction per week (including 28 hours of class contact and 2 hours for
physical education) over a six-day schedule. Classrooms are utilized 7 hours
per day and 6 days per week for a total of 84 (42 x 2) hours for 3 groups of
students for a total of 84 (28 x 3) hours of class contact per week.



- 13 -
2.05        To supervise the school construction program, the project would
provide about 50 vehicles to the provincial School Mapping and School
Construction units. Operating expenditures and maintenance of vehicles would
be met by Provincial Delegations Offices under new guidelines for non-salary
expenditures standards (para. ).
Increased ParticiRation. (US$9.4 million, or 6% of total project costs)
2.06        Textbooks.   Participation of school-aged children, particularly
girls, is likely to improve if school-related expenses borne by the family
decrease.   Availability of affordable materials is also a key guarantor of
improved quality.   To lower these expenses,  the project would finance the
acquisition of an initial stock of textbooks to be distributed to school
cooperatives who would recover their actual costs through a user fee equal to
about one-third of this cost on the basis of average life of textbooks estimated
at three years.   Students would be issued textbooks for the duration of the
academic year, and return them at the end of the school year. Collection of user
fees would coincide with the time when cash is generally available in the
community (e.g. after harvest). Non-reusable school materials, (e.g. pencils,
notebooks, and printed workbooks for math, science, and art in grades 1-3) would
be sold to students at cost. Net savings for families are estimated at about
half the actual average annual textbook and materials cost per child, equal to
more than 5% of the disposable income of most rural families with 3 children in
primary school (para. 1.13).
2.07        This program would be implemented in about 15 selected provincial
delegations during the first two years of the project and tested before
generalization in rural areas.  During the initial phase, MOE would identify
provincial delegations and specific rural areas in which no private bookstores
exist and where cost-effective storage and distribution circuits are available.
The program would be administered by MOE Students' Affairs Service which would
be responsible for liaison with school cooperatives, operating at the level of
a cluster of schools, who would own the books and be responsible for fee
collecting and book returns from families.   At the school level, financial
administration of the school cooperative would be assisted by the school
principal. Teachers would provide support and advice to the school cooperative
for distribution and sales of materials. Parent-Teacher Associations would be
invited to participate actively and support the school cooperative. The school
cooperative would administer the scheme, recover the cost and prepare orders for
the next year. To promote active involvement of staff, parents and students and
facilitate implementation, the project would support institutional development
of school cooperatives and Parent-Teacher Associations through specialist
services (6 staff-months) to assist in the development of materials and
information services, and meeting the costs of printed materials and stationery,
information conferences, and related activities.
2.08        Other Initiatives for Increased Female ParticiRation.  The project
would support direct Government efforts to increase attendance and improve
retention of rural girls in primary school through:



- 14 -
(a) promotional campaigns to emphasize the benefits of female education. In
conjunction with field visits to rural communities, prepare the school
construction ?rogram and supervise civil works (para. 2.04), provincial
staff would conduct promotional campaigns. A directive on the organization
and carrying out of these campaigns will be distributed to promotional
Delegations.   The project would finance specialist services (12 staff-
months) to assist MOE in this design and the provision of promotional
materials to be distributed to provincial delegations; and,
(b) supporting local initiatives such as: allowing enrolment of girls at an
earlier age (5 or 6, especially for those who attended the Quranic School);
giving priority to girls for boarding in lower secondary schools;
encouraging the establishment of cormunity-supported child-care services
for younger siblings; promoting production and distribution of short
stories, traditional tales to be used by girls as reading material;
developing class materials (illustrations, charts, exercises) better
adapted to local conditions and the circumstances of women in the
community; providing activities targeted to young parents, especially
mothers of school-age children, aimed at helping them understand the school
program and activities. The project would finance specialist services (24
staff-months), materials and supplies to support specific initiatives and
related actions requested by the communities. MOE, in collaboration with
the provincial delegations, would assemble and review the proposals, and
monitor their implementation. The Government and the Bank would discuss
and review proposals annually, as well as implementation schedules and
budgetary requirements (para. 3.09).
Improved Quality. (US$6.3 million, or 4% of total project costs)
(a) Development of New Curricula and Materials.
2.09        The project would:  (a)   develop and introduce suitable primary
education programs, including multi-grade teaching techniques (para. 1.18);
and (b) strengthen the level of expertise of key MOE Department of Primary
Education staff through a TA program in the following areas:
(i) Curriculum development: specialist services (36 staff-months) and
fellowships (72 staff-months) to improve administrative and organizational
aspects of curriculum development and utilization of instructional
objectives in textbook production and subsequent classroom instruction;
(ii) Standardized achievement testing: specialist services (36 staff-months)
and fellowships (S0 staff-months) to design and implement a standardized
achievement testing program and develop a data base on student achievement
(para. 1.19).
The project would also finance study visits (12 staff-months) to
countries which have successfully developed objective-based primary-level
curricula and standardized achievement testing. In addition, the project would



- 15 -
finance micro-computers, software, and related materials to support the
development of a standardized achievement testing program.
(b) Staff Development and Support Program.
2.10        Recruitment of Prospective Teachers.   The project would support
Government's plan to recruit those teachers most likely to accept lengthy
assignments in rural areas (para. 1.21) by assisting MOE to develop and implement
appropriate selection procedures and instruments (such as questionnaires and
interviews).  The project would finance specialist services (12 staff-months)
to develop these procedures and instruments, train TTI staff, and disseminate
the findings.
2.11        In-service Teacher Training.  In order to lay the groundwork for an
organized, continuous in-service teacher education program, the project would
support institutional development activities to strengthen existing TTIs
(para. 1.22).  Two TTIs, one in the north (Fez) and one in the south of the
country (Marrakech) have been chosen by MOE to become "Centers of Excellence".
Staff from these institutions have been directly involved in curriculum
development and testing and the pre-investment studies on multi-grade teaching.
The project would finance: (a) specialist services (24 staff-months) to develop
with teacher trainers informational and developmental seminars for staff,
students, and teachers; (b) instructional equipment (copiers, audiovisual
equipment, reference books); and, (c) vehicles for transportation of teachers
and students. Selected instructors would prepare materials related to regional
teacher training activities and teach seminars. The two Centers of Excellence
would also develop multigrade teaching practices (para. 2.13) and school
principals training programs (para. 2.14).
2.12        Pre-Service Teacher Training.  The project would finance specialist
services (6 staff-months), training materials and equipment to develop
pre-service teacher training on a pilot-project basis at the two Centers of
Excellence.   These would include:  (a) practice teaching in rural areas; (b)
instruction on multigrade teaching methodology using the materials that will be
developed for in service training; and (c) inclusion of an effective teaching
strategies module in the educational psychology course.
(c) Multigrade Teaching.
2.13        To strengthen multigrade teaching practices,  the project would
finance: (a) study tours (4 staff-months) to countries with a well-developed
multigrade methodology; (b) specialist services (24 staff-months) to develop
detailed curricula integrating subjects and scheduling among the various primary
grades; (c) complementary equipment and audiovisual materials for teacher
training; (d) local training expenses for about 5,000 multigrade teachers to
attend a two-week training course in the two Centers of Excellence and other TTIs
equiped with dormitories; and, (e) provision of educational materials for
multigrade teaching.



- 16 -
(d) School Management.
2.14        To assist MOE in strengthening the School Principals'  roles and
responsibilities and designing related training programs, the project would
finance: (a) 12 staff-months of specialist services to develop training programs
and materials in the two Centers of Excellence supported by the project; (b)
fellowships (60 staff-months) to universities with a graduate program in school
administration and extensive experience in developing countries; and, (c)
training materials for seminars to be offered to about 2,000 rural primary school
principals (para. 1.24).
(e) School Health.
2.15        The project would support priority activities in the areas of health
education, coordination of health services, and improved health environment.
By project completion, the proposed program would reach all primary schools in
Morocco.
2.16        The project would finance training materials to disseminate health
education modules in the primary school curriculum (para. 1.25). Training would
be organized under the auspices of MOE in the form of short information seminars
to familiarize higher level staff from MOE and MOPH on the overall school health
strategy and related training goals, and in-service orientation seminars in
health and nutrition education to primary level teachers. All primary teachers
would be introduced to the health curriculum within five years. This training
would be implemented at the school level by the provincial delegation staff,
inspectors, and school health assistants.   Term and end-of-year examinations
would include questions related to health and nutrition, starting with the 4th
and 5th grades.
2.17        The project would also assist MOE in key institutional development
areas.   It would: (a) strengthen dissemination of health information through
provision of complementary equipment such as materials for posters, charts and
exhibits; (b) strengthen DHSPA management capacity through introduction of a
computerized information system. In addition, the project would finance foreign
fellowships for key MOE staff involved in school health: 3 staff-months to get
acquainted with school health experiences and lessons in countries where
successful programs have been developed and implemented; and, 2 staff-months to
familiarize with specialized programs offered in school health and to assess the
feasibility of applying them to Morocco.
2.18        To increase efficiency of school health services the project would
finance the provision of basic technical equipment such as sca.es, eye charts,
stethoscopes and 150 light motorcycles to be utilized by nursing staff assigned
to rural school districts in the performance of their duties.
2.19        To promote equitable and affordable provision of eyeglasses (para.
1.28). The project would finance 6 staff-months of specialist services to assist
MOE in finalizing a feasibility study on all aspects of eyeglasses prescription,



- 17 -
assembly and distribution, at affordable prices, including: screening of
students, issuance of ophthalmic prescriptions, procurement and distribution of
spectacles.   Subject to Bank approval of the results of the feasibility study,
the project would finance the provision of equipment and materials required
thereafter (para. 1.28). During negotiations, agreement was obtained that the
Government would provide a feasibility study on the provision and distribution
of eyeglasses to the Bank for its review and approval by September 30, 1990
(para. 5.01).
Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation. (US$2.5 million, or 2% of project costs)
2.20        School Location Planning and School Mapping Services.  In order to
strengthen management of school location planning and school mapping services
(para. 1.28), the project would assist MOE's Department of School Planning and
School Mapping for Primary and Secondary Education (DSPSM) and the School Marping
Units in each of the 49 Provincial Delegations in developing a School Mapping
Information System (SMIS). A computer-based spatial data base, the SMIS provides
a visual representation of the school map to which is attached an electronic data
base including information on educational statistics, demography, topography,
and social infrastructure. The SMIS would be used to support the production and
analysis of educational statistics, for decision-making on appropriate location
and distribution of educational facilities, and for monitoring the construction
and maintenance of facilities. The SMIS would be developed in MOE and in each
of the fourteen Regional Offices. Development and implementation of the SMIS
would be undertaken by statisticians and educational planners in MOE, school
planning and school mapping regional inspectors and instructors at the Vocational
Guidance and School Planning Institute (COPE) in Rabat. Heads of School Planning
Units in the Provincial Delegations would participate in data collection and
would be trained in the use of the SMIS.
2.21        The project would provide equipment, expert services, fellowships
and local training to implement SMIS. Equipment would consist of micro-computers
and related software to MOE Statistics and School Planning Divisions, COPE and
fourteen regional MOE offices. The project would include 108 staff-months of
specialist services to create the data base and to conduct training programs
for MOE staff.  Expertise would also be developed through 52 staff-months of
foreign fellowships to key DSPSM staff who would work in close collaboration with
foreign experts to ensure coordination of operations and implementation of SMIS.
Short local training programs would be provided to the School Mapping Unit staff
in each provincial delegation.
2.22        Monitoring of project-supported activities will be undertaken by
MOE's Reform Implementation Task Force (using the same arrangements as for the
ESRP to produce annual progress reports). Data will be obtained from educational
statistics collected from yearly questionnaires (distributed to schools in
November/December), as well as from systematic visits and observations.
Specifically, data will be collected on: (a) number and distribution of new
school facilities; (b) promotional campaigns for increased female attendance;
(e) new intakes in Grade 1 and retention of girls at primary level; (d)



- 18 -
distribution of textbooks to students through school cooperatives, costs and
collection rates; (e) pre- and in-service teacher and school principal training
activities; (f) teacher assignments in new schools; (g) use of housing
facilities; and, (h) school health education. MOPH would provide data on school
health inspections and servP'es. Annual progress reports would be produced and
reviewed with the Bank as part of the annual joint review (para. 3.09).
2.23        To strengthen institutional capacity in evaluation, the project would
support MOE's Department of Primary Education and its Division of Curriculum,
in designing, conducting and disseminating research in two priority areas related
to curriculum development and standardized achievement testing (para. 2.09).
In particular, two research projects would be undertaken on the effects of two
key inputs on the learning process: textbooks, and teacher training and
supervision. Planning and design of these research projects would be finalized
in conjunction with the development of standardized achievement testing, a
pivotal instrument to measure learning outcomes. The planning phase, expected
to be completed by the end of the second year of the project, would be followed
by systematic data collection and analysis, and publication of results by the
fourth year of the project. To this end, the Department of Primary Education
would rely on institutional twinning arrangements with a foreign
university/research center in close collaboration with staff and researchers from
the Faculty of Education in Rabat, the CNCPRST and the two "Centers of
Excellence". The project evaluation activities would, therefore, be used as a
training ground for the development of institutional expertise. The project
would finance foreign fellowships to universities with strong graduate program
in educational evaluation (18 staff-months), specialist services (96
staff-months), micro-computers and software, and data collection and analysis
expenses.
2.24        As part of the PEP, and to promote an efficient use of resources,
the project would support MOE's efforts to implement policies and procedures to
contain education costs and sustain quality improvements at primary level
relating in particular to: (a) provision of education material; (b) utilization
of educational facilities; and (c) utilization of administrative and teaching
staff (para. 1.30). In addition, the project would support the development and
carrying out of a suitable program of periodic maintenance of the primary schools
facilities (para. 3.14).
III - PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Prolect Costs.
3.01        Summary of Project Costs.  Project costs are estimated at DH 1,336
million or US$165 million equivalent. A summary of project costs by project item
is shown in Table 3.1. Project costs by category of expenditure are shown in
Table 3.2. Details of project costs are shown in Annex 12. These costs include
civil works, professional services, furniture, equipment, vehicles, educational
materials, and technical assistance.



- 19 -
Table 3.1 SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign    Total  Foreign  X Total
-------------------------  ------------------------- as X of    Base
(DH million)                (US$ million)         Total       Cost
A. Increased Access and Improved
Facilities
School Construction Program         621.4    389.2  1,010.6        76.6      48.0    124.6         39%       87$
Civil Works Supervision               3.9       6.0       9.9       0.5       0.7       1.2        601        1X
Sub-Total                           625.3    395.2  1,020.5        77.1      48.7    125.8         39X       88X
B. Increased Participation
Textbooks and Educ. Materials        29.0      43.4      72.4       3.6       5.4       9.0        60X        62
Increased Female Particlpation        1.7       1.7       3.4       0.2       0.2       0.4        52        o02
Sub-Total                            30.7      45.1      75.8       3.8       5.6       9.4        602        62
C. Improved Quality
Development of New Curricula          1.7       9.7      11.4       0.2       1.2       1.4        852        1X
Teaching Staff Development            2.5       9.5      12.0       0.3       1.2       1.5        792        12
Multigrade Teaching                    1.7      4.7       6.4       0.2       0.6       0.8        74X        1X
School Management                     0.6       1.5       2.1       0.1       0.2       0.3        742       0O
School Health Services                6.1      12.1      18.2       0.8       1.5       2.3        662        22
Sub-Total                            12.6      37.5      50.1       1.6       4.7       6.3        752        42
D. Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation
School Mapping                        2.3       5.8       8.1       0.3       0.7       1.0        722        12
Monitoring and Evaluation             2.6       9.2      11.8       0.3       1.2       1.5        782        12
Sub-Total                             4.9      15.0      19.9       0.6       1.9       2.5        752        22
__= = ==                                                      =  _____=
Total Base Cost                        673.5    492.8  1,166.3        83.1      60.9    144.0         422      1002
Physical Contingencies               44.2      32.4      76.5       5.4       4.0       9.4        42X        72
Price Contingencies                  54.5      39.0      93.6       6.8       4.8      11.6        42X        82
a Pc                                   -    --  =  .
Total Prolect Costs                     772.2    564.2  1,336.4       95.3      69.7    165.0         422      115X



- 20 -
Table 3.2 PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Local Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total Foreign  X Total
---------------------------  --------------------------- as X of  Base
CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE      (DH million)           (USS million)  Total   Cost
A. Civil Works          471.8  277.2  749.0   58.2   34.2   92.4    37X   64X
B. Professional Fees    58.2   16.4   74.6    7.2    2.0    9.2    22X    6X
C. Furniture            90.0   90.0  180.0   11.1   11.1   22.2    50X   15X
D. Equipment             3.1   13.2   16.3    0.'    1.6    2.0    81X    1X
E. Vehicles              1.7    7.2    8.9    0.2    0.9    1.1    811    1X
F. Educational Materials  35.9   53.8   39.7    4.4    6.7   11.1    60X    8X
G. Technical Assistance  12.8   35.0   47.8    1.6    4.4    6.0    731    4X
______  ---  ;__  ______-  ------  -- --   ------__ __ __ _
Total Baseline Cost     673.5  492.8  1,166.3   83.1   60.9  144.0    42X  100X
Physical Contingencies  44.2   32.4   76.6    5.4    4.0    9.4    42X    7X
Price Contingencies    54.5   39.0   93.5    6.8    4.8   11.6    42X    82
Total Project Cost      772.2  564.2  1,336.4   95.3   69.7  165.0    421  115X
3.02        Basis of Cost Estimates.  The costs of construction are based on
recently awarded contracts for prefabricated facilities in rural areas under the
Education Sector Reform (Loan 2664-MOR). Costs of professional services comprise
fees for architectural and engineering works including the preparation of
prototype designs for central schools, site development plans, site survey, soil
tests and analysis, and on-site supervision of construction. Costs of furniture,
equipment and educational materials are estimated on the basis of lists and
specifications in recently awarded contracts. Technical assistance costs have
been estimated on the basis of recent prices for comparable technical assistance
in the region. Base cost estimates reflect prices as projected in November 1988.
3.03        Custom Duties and Taxes. Project costs include an estimated US$25.0
million in direct and indirect taxes on locally procured civil work costs
(US$16.9 million), locally manufactured furniture, equipment and educational
materials (US$7.9 million), and locally procured technical assistance
(US$0.9 million). Goods imported directly for use by Government ministries are
exempt from customs duties.
3.04        Cost Rer Student.  Construction costs per student are estimated at
an average of US$267 per student place.  Furniture and the initial stock of
educational and special materials are estimated at an average of US$85 per
student, and compare with other Bank-financed facilities for basic education.
3.05        Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include US$9.4 million for
physical contingencies, equal to 7% of the estimated cost of the project. Price
contingencies up to the end of project implementation are estimated at US$11.6
million equivalent, or 8% of base cost. Total contingencies represent 15% of base
cost. Annual rates of price increases have been applied for all categories at



- 21 -
the following annual rates for foreign and local costs: 3.0% in 1989 and 1990
and 4.0% thereafter.
3.06        Foreign Exchange Component.   The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: (a) civil works - 37%; (b) professional services - 22%;
(c) furniture - 50%; (d) equipment and vehicles - 81%; (e) educational materials
- 60%;  and  (f)  technical assistance  - 73%.   These percentages have been
determined by: (a) estimating the indirect foreign exchange cost of construction,
furniture and educational materials; (b) assuming that all equipment would be
imported; (c) assuming that the foreign exchange cost of specialist services
:;ould be 85% for foreign specialists and 20% for local specialists; and, (d)
assuming that the cost of foreign training would be 95% foreign and that of local
training 20%. Including contingencies, the resulting foreign exchange component
is  estimated at US$69.7 million, or 42% of total costs.
3.07        Recurrent Expenditures.   Under the proposed project,  additional
recurrent costs would be generated by: (a) the recruitment of teachers to staff
rural classrooms; (b) needs for incremental operating budgets to sustain the
proposed improvements in curriculum development, teacher training, school health
services, headmasters training; and, (c) the need for supplies and maintenance
of vehicles to be provided to School Mapping Units, Teacher Training Centers of
Excellence, and School Health Services. Recurrent costs would also be generated
by building maintenance. In the course of annual reviews, the Government would
prepare and send to the Bank for its review the budget proposals for non-salary
expenditures (para. 3.09). The total incremental recurrent costs generated by
these items when all project schools are fully operational in 1995 are estimated
to be about DH500 million in 1988 prices. Savings generated by project-supported
measures are estimated at DH120 million (constant 1988 DH) when fully operational
(para. ). Net incremental recurrent costs represent about DH380 million or about
5.3% of the 1988 MOE recurrent budget in 1988 prices, and are expected to be
fully sustained because of the high priority that the Government attaches to the
proposed project.
B. Project Financing
3.08        The total project cost of US$140 million equivalent net of taxes
would be financed as follows: (a) the proposed IBRD loan of US$83.0 million
would finance 60% of total project cost; (b) the proposed African Development
Bank (ADB) Loan would finance an additional US$40.0 million or 29% of total
project cost '; and, (c) the Government would finance the remaining US$17.0
' The proposed ADB loan would finance, on a parallel basis, about 36% of the
construction program for classrooms, canteens and staff housing, and the
furniture for these facilities.  It would also finance the pilot program for
provision of water and sanitary facilities, and the related technical assistance
program to strengthen school construction supervision. Disbursements under the
proposed ADB loan would be made according to the same terms as for the IBRD Loan
(para. 3.24).  It is expected t.'at the ADB loan will be negotiated in February
1988, and submitted to their Board in March 1989.



- 22 -
million or 11% of total project cost; the Governement would also finance US$25.0
million equivalent in direct and indirect taxes. The proposed IBRD and ADB loans
would finance 100% of the foreign exchange component (US$69.7 million) and 76%
of local costs excluding taxes. Project financing would be in accordance with
Table 3.3.
Table 3.3 FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Goverrument  IBRD     ADB    TOTAL  Est'd Financing (x)
Categories of Expenditures    ----------------------------------------------  -------------------
(USS Million)         Gov't IBRD  ADB
Civil Works                  8.1    48.8      29.2     86.1    10X  57%  33%
Professional Fees            5.5                       5,5   100%  0S  0%
Furniture                    2.1     11.5     6.7      20.3    10%  57%  33%
Equipment, Vehicles and
Educational Materials      0.6    12.3               12.9    52  952  02
Technical Assistance         0.5     4.0      1.1      5.6    02  842  162
Unallocated                  0.2     6.4      3.0      9.6
Sub-Total (Total Project
Costs Net of Taxes)    17.0     83.0     40.0    140.0    i1%  602  292
Taxes                       25.0                      25.0    100%   0%   0%
Total Project Costs       42.0    83.0      40.0    165.0    25%  50%  25%
C. Proiect Management and implementation.
3.09        Coordination. The proposed project would be implemented by existing
operational units in charge of each project activity in MOE and MOPH. Overall
coordination would be ensured through MOE's Commission de la Reforme Educative,
formally established under the Education Sector Reform Program (Loan 2664-MOR).
The Commission, under the authority of the Minister of Education, comprises the
Secretary General for Primary and Secondary Education and the Directors of the
key MOE departments involved in the project. The Commission appointed the Reform
Implementation Task Force chaired by the Director of MOE's Department of School
Planning and School Mapping for Primary and Secondary Education (DSPSM) to assist
in supervising implementation of the project. The Task Force would support the
Commission in the following areas of project implementation: (a) coordination
among MOE Departments; (b) coordination with MOPH's Technical Department; (c)
monitoring and reporting; and (d) liaison with the Bank. Past experience in the
Bank-financed Education Sector Reform Loan implemented by the Commission has been
satisfactory. As part of regular supervision activities, the Government would
prepare and send to the Bank an annual progre-ss report and the proposed
implementation schedules and detailed costs and budgetary requirements for
project-supported activities covering the next calendar (i.e. budget) year.
3.10        ImRlementation of Project Components.  Under the coordination of
the Task Force, project components would be implemented as follows:



- 23 -
(a)   School Construction Program.  Under the general guidance of MOE's
DSPSM and its School Construction and Equipment Division, MOE would implement
this program through its Provincial School Construction Units. Implementation
of the construction program and delivery of equipment and materials would be
monitored by Provincial Delegations' technical staff. The annual construction
program would be reviewed jointly with the Bank in the context of the preparation
of MOE investment program for the following year (para. 3.09).   MOE School
Construction and Equipment Division would also maintain project accounts.
(b)   Textbooks and Educational Materials.   Textbooks and non-reusable
educational materials would be procured through MOE Central Procurement Services
and distributed to the school cooperatives by the Central Student's Affairs
Directorate under the Department of Primary Education.   Textbooks can be
purchased by MOE from the publishers at 25% discount under contract arrangements
(para. 1.14). Non-reusable educational materials would be procured in bulk from
local and international suppliers.   MOE Student's Affairs Service would be
responsible for the selection of provincial delegations, the design and
implementation of the initial stage, and the monitoring of the program (para.
2.07).   Materials would be distributed to the schools by the Provincial
Delegations through existing MOE transportation and distribution circuits (for
school canteen supply and delivery of equipment provided to schools).
Promotional campaigns would be designed and coordinated at the central level by
a task force chaired by the Director of DSPSM.  Campaigns would be conducted
under the direct authority of the Provincial Delegates with assistance from
School Mapping and Educational Units at the provincial level (para. 2.08).
(c)   Curriculum and Staff Development.  The Curriculum Development and
Staff Training Divisions under the Department of Primary Education would
coordinate implementation of the technical assistance program and project
activities to be conducted in teachers' recruitment (para. 2.10), pre-and in-
service training in the two Centers of Excellence (paras. 2.11-2.12), and
strengthening of multi-grade teaching and school administration (paras. 2.13
and  2.14).    Revised  recruitment  procedures  would  implemented  in  close
collaboration with MOE Department of Personnel.
(d)   School  Health.    Under  the  responsibility  of  the Minister  of
Education, the Director of DHSPA would coordinate the school health program in
close collaboration with the MOPH's Director of SCHSU. Under the project, DHSPA
would be responsible for implementation of the school health education program,
related training programs and studies (paras. 2.17), and for undertaking the
feasibility study on the provision and distribution of eyeglasses (para. 2.19).
In addition, MOE's DHSPA would be r-sponsible for the school visit program (para.
2.18) in close collaboration with the MOPH' SCHSU staff.
(e)   School Mapping.  The management and administrative support for the
implementation of the proposed School Mapping Information System component would
be provided by key MOE staff under the DSPSM (paras. 2.20-2.21). These would
include representatives from the School Mapping, Education Statistics and Special



- 24 -
Studies Divisions, the COPE, and School Planning Inspectors.   Key staff has
already been identified, and appropriate office and support staff are available.
(f) Monitoring and Impact Evaluation. MOE's Reform Implementation Task
Force would be responsible for collecting data and producing monitoring progress
reports (para. 2.22). Impact evaluation activities would be conducted by the
Division of Programs under the Directorate for Primary Education (para. 2.23).
3.11        Architectural Design Services.  School facilities would be identical
with those provided under the ongoing Education Sector Reform Program (Loan 2664-
MOR). Satisfactory design for sanitary facilities exist.
3.12        Sites.   Acquisition of sites  is the responsibility  of an MOE
commission already in place in each of the 49 provinces.   In accordance with
previous arrangements these commissions would acquire sites one year in advance
based on the school construction program and the school map.
3.13        Environmental  Impact.   Construction of the primary  schools  is
expezted to have a negligible impact on the physical environment because of the
small size and modular nature, with minimum foundations, of most structures.
On an experimental basis, sanitary blocks and septic tanks will be provided to
about 120 rural schools under the proposed project (para. 2.03).   Important
benefits are expected from increased environmental hygiene awareness components
in the school health program and the provision of sanitary facilities.
D. Maintenance.
3.14        Maintenance. Although the existing facilities (mainly prefabricated
units) provided under Bank-financed projects require minimum maintenance and are
proving extremely durable, there is currently a lack of funds for minor repairs
and regular maintenance (para. 1.32). Under the ESRP, MOE is conducting a study
to develop a systematic maintenance program and to explore financing alternatives
from the community. Results are to be implemented during the proposed project.
This program, which is expected to be ready by September 1989, as part of the
Action Plan (Annex 7), is expected to form the basis for revised annual budgetary
estimates for maintenance under the regular review program starting in 1990
(paras. and 2.24).
E. Procurement.
3.15        Procurement arrangements are described below and summarized in the
following table:



- 25 -
Table 3.4: Proposed Procurement Procedures
(US$ million)
Category of                   Procurement Method        Total Cost
Expenditures                                             Including
ICB      LCB    Other   Contingencies
Civil Works                 66.6       0.4      39.9         106.9
(51.7)    (0.3)    (0.0)          (52.0)
Professional Services        0.0       0.0     10.0           10.0
(0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)           (0.0)
Equipment and Vehicles       1.9       1.1      0.3            3.3
(1.7)    (0.9)    (0.3)           (2.9)
Furniture                   16.2       0.0      9.5           25.7
(12.0)     0.0      (0.3)         (12.3)
Educational Materials        1.1       0.0     11.5           12.6
(1.0)    (0.0)    (9.8)         (10.8)
Technical Assistance,        0.0       0.0       6.5            6.5
Training and Studies      (0.0)    (0.0)    (5.0)            (5.0)
Total                       85.8       1.5      77.7         165.0
IBRD Financing             (66.4)    (1.2)   (15.4)          (83.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IBRD.
3.16        Civil Works.  Bids for school construction would be invited in two
sets of packages corresponding to the proposed implementation program (para.
2.03).   In each set, bids would be invited under International Competitive
Bidding Procedures (ICB) in two separate (geographic area) packages which would
have an equal value and would be financed by IBRD and ADB separately. These
IBRD-financed packages, bids and contract award decisions would be reviewed in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (May 1985) which are currently being applied to procurement of the same
type of works under ESRP. Based on recent experience, it is expected that civil
works contracts will be awarded to local contractors.
3.17        Goods.  Except as provided below, goods would be provided under ICB.
Goods (including vehicles) estimated to cost between US$25,000 and US$100,000
per contract could, up to an aggregate limit of US$2.2 million, be procured under
LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Goods estimated to cost US$25,000 or less
could, up to an aggregate limit of US$1.1 million, be procured under local
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank.   Wells and sanitary facilities,
regardless of their cost, could be procured under local shopping procedures



- 26 -
acceptable to the Bank. Textbooks could be procured by direct negotiations with
the supplier.
3.18        For goods procured under ICB, qualifying domestic manufacturers would
receive preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
or the prevailing import duty, whichever is less.
3.19        Technical Assistance.  Proposals for TA would be invited as follows:
(a) a comprehensive institutional development package to MOE including specialist
services and fellowships for (i) curriculum development, (ii) standardized
achievement testing, (iii) teacher admission criteria and inservice training,
(iv) multi-grade teaching, (v) school management and, (vi) monitoring and
evaluation. To the extent possible, a comprehensive contract would be sought
from universities and / or international organizations that would interface with
local institutions to develop capacity in the country (para. 2.23); and, (b) four
separate packages for (i) school mapping services, (ii) feasibility study on the
production of eyeglasses, (iii) study tours on school health services and, (iv)
adult literacy program development. To keep the bidding and evaluation process
manageable, not more than six qualified institutions or firms would be requested
to submit proposals.   The consultants would be selected in accordance with
principles and guidelines acceptable to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing  Agency"  (August  1981).    Terms  of  reference  and  schedules  of
implementation for specialist services, fellowships, training programs, and
details of the studies to be conducted have been discussed during appraisal, and
were reviewed and finalized during negotiations.
3.20        Local competitive bidding procedures to be used under the project
are those generally used by the Government. There are, however, a few procedures
which require modifications in order to ensure that the- are consistent with the
needs for economy and efficiency, and acceptable to the Bank (Annex 13). During
negotiations, agreement was obtained that LCB procedures used for procurement
under the proposed loan would be carried out under procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
3.21        Review of Bid Documents and Contracts.  Invitations to bid and the
proposed award of contracts would be reviewed by the Bank for all ICB contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more. It is estimated that
this review would cover all civil works contracts financed by the Bank (US$52.0
million equivalent) and about 80% of all equipment, furniture and educational
materials contracts (US$15.6 million).   Other contracts would be subject to
selective post award reviews by the Bank.
F. Status of Preparation.
3.22        The project is in a state of preparation that will permit timely
implementation because: (a) preparation of designs and tender documents for
school facilities (largely based on standard prefabricated units already being
procured under the Sector Reform Loan) are nearly completed for the first phase
of the school construction program; (b) lists of equipment, furniture and



- 27 -
educational materials for about 90% of project items have been prepared and bid
specifications a;:e nearly completed; and (c) all major portions of the technical
assistance program have been defined and detailed terms of reference have been
finalized.  Bids are expected to be invited early in 1989.  The disbursement
profile for EMENA education projects is 8 years with 80% being disbursed over
seven years. In view of the advanced state of preparation, the proposed project
is expected to be completed in about six years (1989-1995) based on
implementation capacity under the Education Sector Reform Program Loan (currently
63% disbursed and fully committed, after 24 months). Project completion would
be June 1995 and the Closing Date would be December 1995.
G. Disbursements.
3.23        Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against:
(a)   80% of expenditures for civil works;
(b)   100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-
factory cost and 80% of local expenditures for other locally
procured furniture, equipment, vehicles and educational
materials;
(c)   100%  of  expenditures  for  technical  assistance  including
specialist services and fellowships.
3.24        Disbursements from the proposed loan are expected to take place on
average about six months after expenditures are incurred.   A disbursement
schedule is attached in Schedule 4. Disbursements are expected to be completed
by December 31, 1995.
3.25        D)isbursements for the above items would be made upon receipt by the
Bank of fully documented applications, except for expenditures under contracts
valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent, which would be made against certified
statements of expenditures (SOE).  Supporting documentation for SOE would be
retained by the implementation agency and made available for review by the Bank
during supervision.   Direct payment applications and application for special
commitments would be accepted for minimum amounts of US$100,000 equivalent.
H. Special Account.
3.26        To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would
establish, maintain and operate under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, a Special Account in Dh at the MOF's Treasury General to which the World
Bank would make an initial deposit of DH50.0 million, equivalent to a four-month
average Bank disbursement. The Special Account would be replenished on a monthly
basis when the equivalent of a minimum of USSl.0 million or a third of the amount
of the initial deposit has been withdrawn from the Special Account, whichever
comes first.



- 28 -
I. Accounts and Audits
3.27     Accounts and Audits.  The Government would open separate accounts for
expenditures financed by IBRD and ADB, and would maintain records and accounts
relating to the proposed project.   Project accounts,  including the Special
Account (para. 3.26), would be audited by independent auditors in accordance with
the March 1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank". During negotiations, agreement was obtained that,
within six months of the end of each fiscal year, the Government would provide
to the Bank an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disLarsements made on
the basis of statement of expenditures.
J. Suspension Remedies
3.28        Co-financing will not be required until 1990.  However, should the
Cofinancing Agreement with ADB not become effective by June 30, 1990, and no
other sources of funds be available to implement the project, the Bank may
suspend disbursements. Delays in mobilizing the ADB funds within the first year
of the project is not expected to affect overall implementation since it will
be applied to parallel financing of separate geographical areas.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01        The proposed project is expected to yield very significant private
and social benefits. Access to education would be provided to children in remote
and sparsely populated areas which are not currently served and where the direct
returns to basic education are expected to be substantial.   Rural enrolments
are expected to increase by about 38%, with participation of girls increasing
by about 75% (based on similar absolute increases during the project period, but
a much lower existing enrolment base for girls). Teachers in rural areas would
be better qualified and motivated.
4.02        The provision of low-cost school textbooks and school materials is
expected to encourage parents to send children to school and to enhance quality
and retention.   Incentives to school cooperatives,  through information and
financial means, to procure low-cost, reusable school materials will also have
a beneficial impact. This approach is expected to create sustained effects in
delegating to communities authority and responsibility for increasing access and
quality of their children's education.
4.03        The project will offer innovative approaches for increasing enrolment
rates of rural girls. Female education, in addition to its equity aspects, has
strong positive externalities associated with health, employment, productivity,
and family composition.



- 29 -
4.04        The project is also expected to lead to gains in pupil achievement.
Wide use of textbooks along with curricular and methodological improvements,
attention to in-service training of teachers, and improvement in school
management methods, would not only increase literacy and numeracy, but would also
deliver these skills with greater efficiency, thus inducing students to stay in
school. Students attending multigrade classrooms, in particular, will receive
a significantly larger amount of time on-task. Attention to school health would
reduce morbidity-related non-attendance and dropout rates.
4.05        The project is expected to contain the  growth of  incremental
expenditures   that  will  necessarily  follow  enrolment   growth,   through
rationalization of teacher employment, training resources and policies, and non-
teaching staff allocation.
B. Risks
4.06        Based ol. past experience,  the project faces risks of delays in
implementation,  largely  due  to budgetary  constraints.    To  diminish  this
possibility, a public investment review was held in June 1988, and a realistic
core investment program including the proposed project was reviewed and finalized
within the framework of the Structural Adjustment Loan. Budgetary constraints
might also affect funding for the distribution of educational materials to
students. To minimize these risks, specific norms for non-salary expenditures
would be established and monitored annually by the Bank (para.1.31).
4.07        If public higher education expenditures continue to accelerate,
greater pressure may be created to shift resources from primary education. The
authorities are aware of this and have taken partial steps despite a difficult
social context to control the expansion of university intakes, including through
the recent revision of the end-of-secondary examination system. Intakes have
stabilized in 1988 as a result, but renewed acceleration is possible. In the
longer run, the only sustainable solutions involve changes in the demand for
higher education, brought about mainly via the structure of private costs and
benefits (market-based wage structures in the public sector, for example) and
including through more efficient and equitable targeting of public subsidies,
however difficult this may be to implement in the immediate social context. The
Bank is currently assisting the Government to review alternative organization,
management and financing policies for higher education in this light.
4.08        Project components to stimulate female enrolment and to provide low-
cost textbooks to school cooperatives will be implemented for the first time in
Morocco.   It is entirely possible that outcomes fall short of expectations.
Information campaigns may not reach all rural areas or may be less effective than
predicted. School cooperatives may not be given the full administrative support
necessary to carry out their activities. The traditional administrative role
of school directors may prevail over attempts to create a management style which
is better suited to collaborate with communities. Various determinants of school
attendance beyond the administration's control, which are not well-understood
now, could loom larger in family decisions than conventional wisdom implies.
The project will serve sparsely populated areas located far from decision-making



- 30 -
centers, and is, therefore, deliberately testing the limits of formal educational
development  methodology.    These  initiatives  have  however  obtained  clear
endorsement from central authorities.   In addition, the project will utilize
detailed, continuous monitoring to develop timely intervention strategies during
project implementation and to profit from lessons learned.
V - AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01        During negotiations, assurances were obtained that no later than
September 30, 1990, the Government will complete and send to the Bank for its
review, comments and approval the feasibility study on the provision and
distribution of eyeglasses pr,pared by MOE and take into consideration the Bank's
comments in implementing th,. recommendations/programs (para. 2.19).
5.02        Subject to the above conditions, the project will provide a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$83.0 million equivalent to the Government of Morocco.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF HOROCCO
RURAL PRIhARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Evolution of Public-School Enrollments by Level
1957/56   1966/67   1q67/68   I969/69   1969/1970 1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975176   1976/77
(Grades 1-5)
Urban                N/A      573,131   614,651   660,081   703,340   743,970   792,293   827,542   873,580   925,556   973,091 1,056,972
Hale              N/A      333,050   352,606   379,181   402,350   446,642   422,002   471,491   492,717   520,302   545,263   592,t640
Female            N/A      240,091   262,045   280,900   300,990   297,328   370,291   356,051   380,863   405,254   427,829   464,332
Rural                N/A      422,992   414,551   396,540   377,474   378,000   379,014   398,465   410,146   439,322   501,915   546,900
;ale              N/A      367,967   358,408   341,042   322,973   303,576   321,117   324,583   340,744   361,586   405,302   439,279
Female            N/A       55,025    56,143    55,499    54,501    74,424    57,897    63,882    69,402    76,736    95,613   107,621
Total               481,368   996,023 1,029,202 1,056,621 1,090,814 1,121,970 1,171,307 1,216,007 1,283,726 1,363,978 1,475,006 1,603,872
SECONDARY
(Grades 6-12)
First-Cycle Secondary
(Grades 6-9)
Rale                  24     --        N/A        --        --        --         --        --        --        --        N/A      229,294
Feuale                 I     --       N/A         --        --        --         --        --        --        --        N/A      126,882
Total                    25   168,222   206,273   219,324   226,430    N/A       228,652   241,527    N/A       281,979   319,805   356,176
Second-Cycle
Secondary
(Grades 10-12)
Rale               2,B99     --       N/A         --        --        --        --         --        --        --       N/A        76,546
Female             1,096     --        N/A        --        -                    -         --        --        --        N/A       32,335
Total              3,985    23,943    23,354    29,293    37,403    N/A        55,724    64,749    N/A        84,691    92,145   10,89891
Total Secondary       4,010   212,165   229,627   249,617   263,833   269,390   294,376   306,275   337,199   366,570   410,952   465,057
H16HER EDUCATION     N/A        5,386      6,268     9,367    10,277    11,143    13,360    19,794    20,905    26,788    35,027    45,085
#Excluding teacher training.
Source: Statistiques de l'Enueigneeent Prisaire et Secondaire (various years), Le Houvement Educatif au Haroc (various years),
guestions de ['Enseignement Au Haroc (Bulletin Economique at Social du Nlroc, Nos. 143-146), Annumire Statistique du
Haroc, 1983, and unpublished HOE data.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Evolution of Public-School Enrollaunts by Lnvel
(Continued)
1977/79   1978179   1979180   1990/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/04   1984195   1985/86   1996/87   1987988
PRIMARY                                          -
(Grades 1-5S
Urban              1,119,463 1,187,098 1,239,490 1,287,957 1,355,110 1,312,596 1,259,403 1,149,746 1,157,972 1,1147,481 1,149,579
HMle              622,958   661,474   699,475   711,728   746,713   716,215   683,000   622,512   621,613   615,599   615,707
Female            495,505   515,614   550,005   576,229   &09,397   596,371   575,466   527,234   536,259   531,982   532,842
Rural                611,706   670,307   745,192   819,142   885,450 1,064,982 1,147,332 1,056,592 1,045,074 1,001,946   954,007
"ale              484,965   523,734   573,190   619,843   661,326   768,899   919,741   751,718   741,824   712,722   679,629
Fesalo            126,741   146,573   172,012   198,299   224,124   296,093   328,591   304,864   303,250   299,224   274,379
Total              1,730,169 1,957,395 1,984,672 2,106,099 2,240,560 2,377,569 2,405,735 2,206,328 2,202,946 2,149,427 2,102,586
SECONDARY
(rade  6-12)
First-Cycle Secondary
(Grades 6-9)
Male               N/A       283,078   305,252   329,929   351,399   379,497   403,583   439,522   479,958   527,479   575,430
Female             N/A       169,191   189,660   206,721   224,326   245,264   265,242   290,193   322,878   360,9981   396,495
Total                 N/A       452,259   494,912   535,650   575,714   624,751   669,825   729,715   802,936   998,460   971,925
SKeond-Cycle
Secondary
(Grades 10-12)
Male               N/A       103,907   122,145   142,207   158,075   174,358   186,590   IJS,487   191,794   193,026   189,627
Female             N/A        49,010    61,039    76,292    99,465   103,125   114,696   114,320   1189,394   120,110   1l9,915
Total              N/A       152,817   183,193   218,499   247,540   277,493   301,286   29,9807   310,179   313,736   307,542
Total Secondary       N/A       605,071   678,095   754,139   923,354   902,234   970,111 1,029,522 1,113,014 1,202,196 1,279,467
HISHER EDUCATION      53,200    62,296    74,465    86,731    96,953    93,115    99,637   119,920   134,9855   139,965   157,494
#EKcluding teacher training.
Sources Statistiques de I1Ensuigneaent Prisaire et Setondaire (various yearsl, Le Mouvennt Edutatif au Maroc (various yearsl,
Questions de IEnseignmnent Au Maroc (18dletin Economiqum et Social du Maroc, Mos. 143-146), Annumire Statistique du
Marc, 1983, and unpublished MOE data.



KINIDU OF NOnMCcI
MRL PRIHARY EWCWATION PRWECT
Evolution of the NIOE Budget as a Share of Total 6overnent Budget and BP, 1975-1998
(In Nillions of Current DH, Except as Noted)
1975     1976     1977     1978     1979     1980     1981     1982      1993     1984 I5           1966     1987     1989
A. LEELS lie Nhllions of Current Dirhams)
dl       d/
Gor   Doecstic Product n/    36,411   42,356   49,761   55,154   62,043   70,161   76,737   S0,089  94,635  105.840  119,310  134,334  136,970  155,277
NOE Budget bi
Reurret                     1,319    1,796    2,202    2,664    3,173    3,519    3,974    4,692    5,264    5,434    6,079    6,536    6,887    7,249
Investmnt                     579      751      826      757       936      839    1,243    1,832    1,961    1,309    1,619    2,783    2,505    2,206
Total                       1,699    2,549    3,029    3,422    4,010    4,357    5,216    6,524    7,225    6,742    7,697    9,319    9,392    9,454
Bowneent Budget bi
RKurrat                     9,463    9,091    9,936   11,349   12,922   15,134   15,357   19,105   18,959   19,251   21,294   22,099   23,677   25,134
Invstmnt cl                 6,288    9,864   11,74     9,128    8,736    8,429    9,997   16,807   13,570   10,155   12,202   20,503   19,924   16,051
Total                      15,751   18,94    21,690   15,477   21,558   23,562   25,354   34,912   32,429   28,406   33,565   42,602   43,601   41,195
di
6DP Deflator (1975 : 100)      100.0    101.5   109.5    125.4    134.6    146.8    162.7    178.8   183.6    199.2   217.1    231.0   233.5   249.6
IOE Budget (Constant 1975 DRI)
RKcurrent                   1,319    1,770    2,029    2,124    2,358    2,397    2,442    2,624    2,867    2,728    2,800    2,630    2,949    2,904
Investment                    579      740      761      603      621       571      764    1,025    1,068      657      745    1,205    1,073       984
Total                       1,699    2,510    2,79'    2,729    2,979    2,968    3,206    3,649    3,935    3,384    3,545    4,034    4,022    3,787
9. BUDGET SNARES (in 1)
NOE Budget I 6overnent Budget
Recurrent                    13.9?    19.9?    22.21    23.5?    24.71    23.3S    25.9?    25.9?    27.91   29.69    28.6S    29.6?    29.1?    28.9?
lovesteent                    9.2?     7.61     7.0?      M.      9.6?      9.9?    12.4?    10.9?    14.5?    12.9?    13.2?    13.6?    12.6?    13.7?
Total                        i2.0o    13.4?    14.0t    17.6?    19.6?    19.5S    20.6?    18.7n    22.3?    23.7?    22.9?    21.9?    21.5?    23.0?
MIHE Budget 1 6DP                5.2?     6.0?     6.12      6.2?     6.5?     6.27     6.9?     7.2?     7.6?     6.4?     6.5?      6.9?     6.9%     6.12
of Current IBRD Country Tables. Estloated for 1999.
bi HF LoI dn Financn, successive pars.
c/ Credit Allocations (Cridits de palent) only.
d/ Prelietnuary figres.



ANNEX 3
KINGDON OF MOROCCO                                              Page 1 of 5
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM (LOAN 2664-MOR)
ST'TUS OF SPECIAL CONODITIONS. OTHER MEASURES, AND PROGRESS TO DATE
OBJECTIVE I - IMPROVE EQUITY OF EDUCATION
PoLicy Area                 SpeciaL Conditions                Other Measures                   Progress to Date
for Second Tranche Release I/                                                                                         GoQ
D Xt
A. Expand Access to Basic Education (Grades 1 to 9)
0
1. Expand primary (Gr. 1-5) and lower
secondary (Gr. 6-9) school intakes
a. Expand number of           Item A. Construction and                                        By the end of academic year
students adnitted to       equipping of about 2,600 new                                    1986-87, 2,275 new classroams were
Grade I of primary         primary classrooms to be                                        operational.  In 1987-88, 2,280
school                     operational as of the begin-                                    additional classrooms were
ning of academic year 1986-87                                   operational.
b. Expand lower secondary    Item D. MOE to increase Grade                                    Achieved. The promotion rate
school intakes (Grade 6)  5 promotion rate to 54X in                                        increased from 49X in Jure 1985,
June 1986.                                                      to 55S in June 1986 and 61X in
June 1987.
c. Promote basic schooling   Item C. MOE to initiate study                                     Preliminary study available.
in rural areas, with       to improve multi-grade teaching                                 Reports to be finalized by mid-89.
particular attention to
female enrollments
HOE to carry out program for   In 1986-87 and 1987-88. 898 aidI
construction of teacher         1,007 staff houses and 402 and 597                             41
housing and student             school canteens were completed,
cafeterias in rural areas       respectively                                                    I
Give preference to female       Graduates from teacher training
teachers in assigning           institutiorns (all of uhom are
teachers to rural primary       assigned to rural areas) coaprised
schools                         59X aid 57X of female teachers in
1986-87 and 1987-88, respectively
B. Restrain Growth of Upper Secondary (Grades 10-12) and Higher Education
1. Restrain growth of upjer
secondary school intakes
a. Reduce Grade 9 promtion  Item E. MOE to reduce Grade 9                                      Achieved. The promotion rate
rate                       promotion rate from 52X in                                       was reduced to .44  in June 1986
June 1985 to 452 in June 1986                                   and to 422 in June 1987.
b. Establish new dipLoma                                      MOE to introduce new diploma   Achieved. New diplome introduced
for satisfactory                                           in Junte 1986                    in June 1986.
corpletion of basic
education (Grade 9)
c. Develop program of         Item C. MO  to initiate study                                    Preliminary study available.
career guidance in lower  to develop new career                                             Reports to be finalized by mid-89.
secondary schooting        guidance program
1/ Actions described in Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement as conditions of the Second Tranche
Release. The Second Tranche was released on September 3, 1987.



ANNEX 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                               Page 2 of 5
EDUCATION SECTOR REFO0M PROGRAM (LOAN 2664-MOR)
STATUS OF SPECIAL CONDITIONS, OTHER MEASURES, AND PROGRESS TO DATE
OBJECTIVE I - IMPROVE EOUITY OF EDUCATION (continued)
Poticy Area                 Special Conditions                 Other Measures                   Progress to Date
for Second Tranche Release 1/
B. Restrain Growth of Upper Secondary (Grades 10-12) and Higher Education (continued)
2. Restrain growth of higher
education intakes and
enroltments
a. Institute control of       Item F. MOE to limit overall                                     Condition met for Second Tranche
admissions to university  growth of new intakes in                                          reLease: new intakes grew by 2.4X
faculties                  university faculties to about                                    from 1985-86 to 1986-87. However,
21 over the preceding                                            they grew by 21t  from 1986-87 to
academic year                                                    1987-88. In 1988-89, provisional
results from end-of-secondary
examimation show that new intakes
witl be maintained at 1987-88
level.
b. Cancel second-phase                                         No new credits to be made       No new credits were available in
investment program for                                      available for university        FY86 and 87. However, the 1988-92
new faculties                                               expansion                       Development Program includes
significant expansion of
university faculties.
c. Develop end-of-secondary                                    MOE to introduce new            Certification not introduced.
certification to be                                         certification in June 1986      However, MOE introduced new                                            Ln
distinct from passing                                                                       examination system for upper
baccalaureat examination                                                                    secondary level in 1987-88.
d. Diversify university       Item C. MOE to initiate study                                    Preliminary study availabLe.
courses                    to prepare credit hour system                                    Reports to be finalized by mid-89.
and develop program of short
courses
1/ Actions described in ScheduLe 6 of the Loan Agreement as conditions of the Second Tranche                                                                 Li
Release. The Second Tranche was released on September 3, 1987.                                                                                         0



ANNEX 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                              Page 3 of 5
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM (LOAN 2664-MOR)
STATUS OF SPEC:AL CONDITIONS, OTHER MEASURES, AND PROGRESS TO DATE
OBJECTIVE If - IMPROVE EDUCATIONAL EFFICIENCY
Policy Area                 Special Conditions                Other Measures                   Progress to Date
for Second Tranche eltease 1/
A. Progressivety Reduce Repetition                                                                                                                       X
and Dropout Rates in Primary
and Secondary Schooling
0
1. Limit total nuber of class                                    MOE to mLintoin new             Achieved. At primary levet, totaL
repetitions to 2 years in                                     restrictions on class           number of repeaters decreaoed from                  in
primary cycle (Grades 1-5),                                   repetition                      487,975 in 1984-85 to 360.506
2 years in secondary cycle                                                                    (-26X) in 1987-88.
(Grades 6-12)
2. Develop remedial              Item C. MOE to initiate study                                   Preliminary study available.
instruction for students     to develop program of                                            Reports to be finalized by mid-89.
with learning problem        remedial instruction
3. lprove suppli of basic       Item S. MOE to carry out a                                      Achieved. Educational materials
educational materials in    program for the distribution                                      for a total value of USn6.7
primary and secondary        of educational materials to                                      million schools were distributed
schooling                    primary schools                                                  to equrip 3,000 schoots (including
new cLassrooms and existing
ut.derequipped schools).
B. Strengthen Student Performance
Incentives in Higher Education
1. Reduce fellowships by 50    Item G. MOE to apply                                             Achieved. Agreed eligibility                                    w
for first-time repeat         eligibility criteria in the                                     criteria are being strictly
students pursuing universi-  award of fotlowships to                                          enforced.
ty studies in Morocco in a   university students in Morocco
city other than their place
of residence; camcet
fetlowships for first-time
repeat students pursuing
university studies in their
city of residence; suspend
fellowships for sibsequent
class repetitions.
2. Suspend foreign fellowships  Item G. MOE to apply                                              Achieved. Agreed eligibility
for all students repeating   eligibility criteria in the                                      criteria are being strictly
more than one year            award of foreign fellowships                                     enforced.
3. Limit class repetition to                                     MOE to apply agreed poticy       Achieved. Ctass repetition
once during the first two                                                                     criteria are being strictty
years of university studies                                                                   enforced.
and once during subsequent
two years of studies
4. Develop and implement         Item C. MOE to initiate study                                    Preliminary study available.
credit-hour system            to develop credit-hour system                                   Reports to be finalized by mid-89.
1/ Actions described in Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement as conditions of the Second Tranche
Release. The Second Tranche was released on September 3, 1987..



ANNEX 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                                 Page 4 of 5
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM (LOAN 2664-MOR)
STATUS OF SPECIAL CONDITIONS, OTHER MEASURES, AND PROGRESS TO DATE
OBJECTIVE 1II - CONTAIN GROWTH OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
Policy Area                  Special Conditions                  Other Measures                    Progress to Date
for Second Tranche Release 1/
A. Restrain Growth of Recurrent
Expenditures on Higher
Education
1. Impose registration fees in                                      As part of the medium-term       MOE has not yet introduced
all institutions of higher                                       program, MOE to implement fee  registration fees
education                                                        policy and progressively
raise fees to inprove cost
recovery
2. Raise tPaching horurs          Item H. Maintenance of the                                         Achieved. Average nurmber of hours
average nufmber of hours of                                        of instruction has been increased
instruction required by all                                        by more than 20  as of the
university teachers at a                                           beginning of academic year
level at least equivalent to                                       1985-86, and is being maintained.
120X of the average during
academic year ending in June
1985
3. Restore Nancienne formutle"                                      MOE to institute "ancienne        "Ancfenne formule" restored, and
for teacher training of                                          formule" and to reallocate       staff and facilities reallocated
lower and upper secondary                                       surplus teacher training          to inservice training activities
teachers (one-year pedagogi-                                     staff and facilities for
cal training following                                           inservice teacher training
required entry level)
4. Replace teacher training                                         MOE to maintain policy            Policy maintained
"pre-salaires" with stipends
for all levels of teacher
training
5. Reduce fellowships for                                           See Objective 11, 8, 1 and 2   See Objective It, 8, 1 and 2
repeat students (See Item
11, B, 1)                                                                                                                                                     >
6. Reduce boarding in                                               Goverrnent to undertake no       No new credits were available in                        7: Z
university facilities;                                           new boarding facilities          FY86 and 87. However, the 1988-92
strengthen cost recovery                                                                          Development Progrem includes
significant expansion of boarding                       o
facilities.
7. Tighten fellowships                                              MOE is limiting eligibility    Achieved. Liste limitative
eligibility criteria for                                         for foreign fellowships          reviewed annually and
overseas students                                                according to liste limitative  fellowships Limited to
of specializations qualifying  qualifying specializations
for foreign study fellowships
8. lapose income criterion for  Item G. MOE to implement                                             Achieved. Agreed eligibility
fellowship eligibility upon  matrix of income ceilings in                                         criteria are being strictly
financial need                 determining eligibility for                                        enforced
university fellowships
1/ Actions described in Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement as conditions of the Second Tranche
Release. The Second Tranche was reloased on September 3, 1987.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                              Page 5 of 5
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM (LOAN 2664-MOR)
STATUS OF SPECIAL CONDITIONS, OTHER MEASURES, AND PROGRESS TO DATE
OBJECTIVE III - CONTAIN GROWTH OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION (continued)
Policy Area                 Special Conditions                Other Measures                    Progress to Date
for Second Tranche Release 1/
a z
B. Contain Primary and Secondary
School Construction Costs
1. Reduce unit costs of                                           MOE to imp:ement revised        Application of revised norms and                    0
primary and secondary                                         norms satisfactory to the        design resulted in 30X savings for
school construction                                            Bank in context of new school  conventional construction at                         VI
construction program            primary and secondary levels
2. Reduce school reptacement    Item C. MOE to initiate study                                     P-eLiminary study avoilable.
requirements through          to develop maintenance                                           Reports to be finalized by mid-89.
inproved school maintenance  programs for facilities and
equipment at all levels
C. Improve Productivity of
Education Persomel
1. Reduce ratio of               Item C. MOE to initiate study  MOE to continue to reduce         Preliminary study available.
administrative to teaching   to identify addt'l measures    ratio of administrative to         Reports to be finalized by mid-89.
staff at secondary level      to streamline secondary school teaching staff as per agreed   Staff ratios reduced as agreed.
administration                  schedule
OD
2. Raise university teaching    See Objective 111, A, 2                                           See Objective [i1, A, 2
hours
3. Raise secondary teacher                                        MOE to maintain policy of       Achieved. Policies maintained and
productivity                                                   increased teaching hours and   performance targets achieved.
improved plamiing of teacher
allocation (developed and
introduced in academic year
1985-86)
D. Strengthen Private Sector         Item 1. Preparation of a                                         Achieved. A system of incentives
Participation in Education       proposed system, satisfactory                                    to encourage development of
to the Bank, of incentives                                       quality private schools was
designed to encourage the                                        approved by parliament in June
development of quality                                           1987. In addition, Departments of
private schools                                                  Private Schooling have been
established under Secretariats for
Primary & Secondary and Higher
Education. Bank reviewed and is
satisfied with proposed system of
incentives and MOE quality control.
Item C. MOE to initiate study                                    Preliminary study available.
to develop improved MOE                                          Reports to be finalized by mid-89.
support of private schooling
I/ Actions described in Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement as conditions of the Second Tranche
Release. The Second Tranche was released on September 3, 1987.



KINGDOM OF tOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
EVOLIITION OF PRIMARY LEVEL ENROLLMENT, MET ENROLLMENT RATIO IN 6RADE 1,
AND GROSS PARTICIPATION RATE BY MILIEU AND BY SEX
FROM AY1980-81 TO A919B7-88 1/
I - URBAN AREA
6RADE / SEI                   1980-81 As T       1981-92 As t       192-83 As 2      1983-84 As T       1984-85 As t       1985-86 As I       If86-97 As 1       1907-88 As X
Tot.              Tot.               Tot.               Tot.               Tot.              Tot.               Tot.               Tot.
ENROLLMENT 2/
on.               Total       198,625            217,437            205,B29            152,727           147,944            227,393            206,093            214,231
Entrants           Boys       105,072  532      14,914  53T        107,522  522       80,311  53t        77,357  52?       119,103  521       107,986  522       111,B12  522
in Sr. I         6irls         93,553  47Z       102,523  47?        99,306  492       72,416  472        70.587  482       I09,290  48?        98,197  482       102,419  492
Grade I           Total       263,391            286,180            296,481           223,306            186,964            259,710            242,927            250,620
Boys       139,562  532       151,787  532       145,435  492       117,983  532       96,332  532       136,361  532       127,653  532       131,419  522
Girls       123,919  472       134,393  472       131,046  442       105,423  472       89,632  472       123,349  472       115,174  472       119,202  489
6rade 2          Total        234,624            248,404            245,597           245,919            216,998            191,39S            250,204            243,319
Boys       129,371  551       134,916  542       132,575  542       131,326  532      116,422  542       102,903  542       133,422  531       130,167  53?
Girls       106,246  452       113,489  462       113,022  46U       114,492  472      100,476  462        E8,496  461       116,782  472       113,151  4n
6rade 3          Total        245,737            254,255            247,317           249,873            245,419            222,290            200,726            246,936                                              1
Boys       136,778  562       142,089  561       135,294  552       135,926  542      132,757  542       120,819  542       109,296  541       132,844  541
Girls       109,959  442       112,167  441       112,023  452       113,947  461      112,662  461       101,472  461        91,430  462       114,090  461
Grade 4          Total        243,694            251,000           240,126            239,617            236,997            230,006            211,197            191,795
Boys       136,974  561       141,561  562       133,586  561      131,095  552       131,757  562       124,791  542       115,173  551       105,014  551
6irls       106,720  442       109,439  442       106,540  441       109,522  452      105,140  442       105,215  462        96,024  452        96,701  45!
Grade 5          Total        300,521            315,271           303,065            299,799            263,508            254,467            242,527           215,9e0
Boys       170,036  572       177,161  562       169,325  56?      166,707  56%       I43,244  54?       136,740  542       130,055  542       116,262  542
Girls       130,485  431       138,110  441       133,740  441       133,082  44U      120,324  462       117,727  46U       112,472  462        99,619  46?
Total Enroll ent            1,297,957          1,355,110         1,332,5B6          1,258,403          1,149,746          1,15?,972          1,147,461         1,148,549
Boys       711,728  552       747,513  551      716,215  542       692,937  542       622,512  542       621,613  542       615,599  542      615,707  542
6irls       576,229  451       607,5S7  45?       596,371  45?      575,466  461       527,234  461       536,259  46?       531,992  462       532,942  461
NET ENROLLMENT RA0IO IN GRADE 1 3/
Total            972               1041                961               691                652                9il2               861                872
Boys           1012               1092               9"2                71;                672               1002                892                992
6irls            942               1002                932                672               642                952                942                852
6ROSS PARTICIPATION RATES 4/
Total         123.92             127.9S             123.32             114.21            :02.31             101.01              98.,1              96.4?
DoYS         134.22             139.31             129.92            121.51             109.62             106.32             103.32             101.31
Girls         113.12             117.0?             112.6?             106.5?             95.72              95.5?              92.92              91.22
1/ Source: MOE Statistical Yearbwks for corresponding years, and MOP Population Estioatn.  Enrolleent in public prisary schools only.                                                                         4
2/ Enrollment data includes under- IAe6t and over-aged children and repeaters.
3/ Nk. entrants in Grade I over age 7 population.
tl Total Enrollment in public urban prioary schools over aQe 7-It population.



KIUINM OF ISURCCO
RALK PRIMlY EOUCTION PROJECT
EMOLTION OF PRIRMY LEVEL EURLLNT, NET E UNROLI     RATIO IN PM*3  1,
ANO MMO  PARRICIPATION RATE BY NILIEIU *2 BY SEI
FMUI 841990-91 TO 841997-08 It
GRADE / SEI                    3990-91 As 1        1991-82 As 2       1992-93 As?I        1983-84 As Z       3914-95 a, I         M-056 As 1        199b47 As 1        399748 AS I                            ">
Tot.               lot.               Tot.                Tot.               Tot.                Tot.               lot.                Tot. 
Grade I           Total        180,597             197,137            229,467             193,524            154,296             220o37             196,731            204,649
in,                IDYu        127,677  711        336,569  691       152,773  671         30,190  67?       105,233  681        149,890  692       134,386  63         1339,910  691
Entrants          Girls         52,920  291         60,569  sit        75,694  331         63,334  331        49,063  321         70,492  321        62,345  321         65,739  321
Grade I           Total        247,693             267,256            314,736            292,507             215qO                 9,435            234,429            240,700
Boys        176,033  711       196,501  70?       232,493  681        197,120  671        147,240  691       377,195  683         60,975  691       364l,26   691
6irlu         73,660  29?        80,755  303        302,243  321        95,397  33?         67,660  31?        82,240  32?         73,454  31?        76,439  32
Brade 2           total        171,254             199,549            226,783             257,639            243,IM0             192,049            220,629             201,M4
Boys        132,786  743       139,731  731        160,519  731       179,055  69?        167,431  69?         35,1338  703      154,477  70?       141,791  70?
Girls         45,468  261        50,938  271         66,264  29?        79,593  31?         75,709  31?        56,910  303         66,152  30?        59,467  301
Grade 3           Total         345,705            160,105            190,629             216,877            229,879             217,299            178,717             192,166b
Boys        1322,377  77       122,099  761        140,193  741       256,658  72?        163,639  71?       154,747  71?        129,290  72        139,059  72
Girls         33,129  233        39,016  24?         50,435  26?        60,219  29?         65,243  291        6i,551  29          49,437  29         54,107  29
Grade 4           Total        319,641             229,924             159,296            179,567            195,430             192,074             183,537            351,690 
Soya         94,940  791       301,036  791        320,557  76?       133,359  74?        135,924  73        139,9g  7n?         333,134  73        111,754  74?.
Girls         ?4,7D3  21?        27,899  222         39,729  24?        46,209  26?         49,506  27?        53,165  29          50,403  27?        39,936  26?
Grade 5           Total        326,952             139,616             373,549            200,743             i04,233            384,219             194,634            168,195
Boys        303,710  92n       312,969  91?        336,127  79        153,549  761        137,495  75?       135,935  74?        134,956  M3        123,765  74?
Sirli-        23,142  19?        26,647  19?         37,422  22?        47,194  24?         46,749  25?         48,394  26?        49,771  27          44,430  26?
Total Enrollueot               939,145             98,450           3,064,992           1,147,332          1,056,592           1,045,074          1,001,946             954,007
Boys       639,846  763        661,326  75?        769,8999  72?      918,741  71?        751,738  71?       743,924  71?        712,722  71?       679,629  71?
Girls        199,299  24?       224,124  25?        295,093  21?       329,591  79?        304,964  291       303,250  29         299,224  29?        274,379  29?
NET ENUOILLHENT RATIO IN GRADE 1  31
Total             50?                 54Z                62?                 52?                41?                 57?                51?                 52?
Boys             69?                 731                Bit                 692                54?                 77?                f9?                 69?
Girls             30?                 34?                421                 34?                261                 372                 332                34?
GROSS PARTICIPATION RATES 4/
Total             49?                 532                623                 66?                60?                 59?                55?                 52?
Boys             73?                 77?                99                  93?                94?                 92?                77?                 73?
Girls             24?                 27?                35?                 39?                35?                 35?                33?                 30?
It Source: NOE Statistical Yearbooks for corresponding years, and HOP Popuiation Estimates. Enirolleenit in public primary schools wily.
2/ Enrollment data inicludes unider- (Age6) and over-aged children and repeaters.
3/1m Newntrants ini Grade I over age 7 population.
4/ Total Enirollment in public urban primary schools over age 7-31 population.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
EVOLUTION OF INTERNAL EFFICIENCY AT PRIMARY LEVEL
AND TRANSITION RATE FROM PRIMARY TO LOWER SECONDARY LEVEL
FROM AY1980-81 TO 1987-88 1/
1980-81    1981-82    1982-83    1983-84    1984-85    1985-86    1986-87    1987-88
URBAN AREA
New Entrants and Promotees       898,161    944,386    910,938    857,803    906,229    920,614    932,864    950,956
Repeaters                        389,796    410,724    401,648    400,600    243,517    237,258    214,617    197,593
Total Enrcllment               1,2C7,957  1,355,110  1,312,586  1,258,403  1,149,746  1,157,872  1,147,481  1,148,549
RURAL AREA
New Entrants and Promotees       588,293    633,720    751,335    786,933    812,124    836,570    823,128    791,094
Repeaters                        229,852    251,730    313,647    360,399    244,458    208,504    178,818    162,913
Total Enrollment                 818,145    885,450  1,064,982  1,147,332  1,056,582  1,045,074  1,001,946    954,007
URBAN AND RURAL AREAS
New Entrants and Promotees   1,486,454  1,578,106  1,662,273  1,644,736  1,718,353  1,757,184  1,755,992  .,742,050
Repeaters                        619,648    662,454    715,295    760,999    487,975    445,762    393,435    360,506
Total Enrollment               2,106,102  2,240,560  2,377,568  2,405,735  2,206,328  2,202,946  2,149,427  2,102,556
Estimated Number of School
Leavers at the End of
Previous Academic Year              NA          NA          NA         NA    311,937    231,546    216,333    204,466
Grade 5 Enrollees                427,373    454,8C7    476,614    500,532    447,801    438,686    427,161
New Entrants in Public Lower
Secondary Schools                          146,480    161,283    163,248    189,710    219,601    240,000    261,285
TRANSITION RATE from Primary
to Lower Secondary Level                        34%         35%         34%        38%         49%         55%         61%
Source: MOE Statistical Yearbooks for corresponding years.  Enrollment in public schools only.
I.,



-42- -
ANNEX 6
World Bank Grouo Education and Training Lending
1.  First Education Project (Cr. 79-MOR), US$11 million, 1965-1975;  financed
construction and equipment of 21 secondary schools, including five lower
secondary vocational schools, and related technical assistance.
2. Second Education Project (Cr. 266-MOR), US$8.54 million, 1971-1978;
financed 'onstruction and equipment of six lower- and one upper-secondary
school teacher training centers, two vocational training centers, and
extensions or equipment to general and technical secondary schools and to
agronomy and forestry institutes, and related technical assistance and
fellowships.
3. Third Education Project (Ln. 1220T-MOR), a third window loan of US$25
million, 1976-1984; financed construction and equipment of 47 primary and five
secondary schools, a lower-secondary teacher training center, also manpower
development in tourism, agriculture and health, and related technical
assistance and fellowships.
4. Fourth Education Project (Ln. 1681-MOR), US$113 million, 1980-1988;
included 11 technical lycees, two institutes of technology, a technical
teacher training institute, and extensions to engineering colleges, and
related technical assistance and pre-investment studies; project closed in
June 30. 1988.
5. Fifth Education Project (Ln. 2149-MOR), US$50 million, 1983-1989.
Includes the establishment of 40 primary schools, four upper-secondary teacher
training centers, also educational aids for 700 primary schools, and related
technical assistance and pre-investment studies; Closing-Date was extended to
March 31, 1989.
6. Education Sector Reform Program Loan (Ln. 2664-MOR), US$150 million,
1986-1988; finances a share of public expenditure in education in order to
assist the Government in carrying out reform activities. Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
7. Vocational Training Project I (Ln. 2479-MOR), US$27.1 million, 1984-1990.
Supports the establishment of 22 vocational training centers and related
technical assistance, and strengthening of ministries' capacity in project
analysis and preparation.
8. Vocational Training Project II (Ln. 2779-MOR), US$22.3 million, 1987-1992.
Supports quality improvements in vocational training programs, and the
rehabilitation of 33 vocational training centers, regional training
coordination units, and related technical assistance.



- 43 -
AMEX- 7
Page 1 of 12
BASIC EDUCATION PROGRAM
The progress achieved since the introduction of the education sector
reform program in 1985 illustrates the significant efforts made by the
Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in this area. With the assistance of the
World Bank and the African Development Bank, which provided direct support for
the preparation of the reform program and financing for the first phase
(1986-1988), the Government has been able to achieve the basic objectives of
the reform.
Over the last three years, the principal guidelines and the general
framework of the education sector reform program have been put in place. The
expansion of schooling capacity at the basic education levels, together with a
faster flow of students through all levels of the system, have made it
possible to improve access to basic education. The reorganization of the
education system began with the introduction of the new programs of the first,
second and third years of the first basic education cycle. Measures such as
the increase in teaching loads at the secondary and higher levels, together
with more effective control of fellowships in higher education, have enabled
us to restrain the growth of expenditure on education at these levels. Public
investment in education has been reallocated to basic education.
This encouraging progress points the way for the efforts that must
be continued under the reform program. Indeed, from the standpoint of
universal basic education, one of the corneLstones of the reform program,
enormous needs remain to be satisfied, particularly in rural areas. Since
independence, although schooling capacity in rural areas has increased
considerably, a significant proportion of the population in the more remote
rural areas has still no access to basic education. In addition, a special
effort must be made to promote the education of girls, which lags considerably
in relation to that of boys in rural areas, and of girls in the towns and
cities. In 1987-88, new enrollments in the first year of the first basic
education cycle accounted for 69% of boys and 34% of girls aged seven in rural
areas, the figures for the urban areas being 89% and 85% respectively.
The Development of Education in Rural Areas
In line with the education sector reform program, the Government of
the Kingdom of Morocco intends to continue to develop basic education in rural
areas. The objective of this sub-sector program is to guarantee in the end
universal access to the first basic education cycle, by improving school
participation and the quality and effectiveness of the education system, and
by ensuring a better allocation of the resources assigned to education. The
principal measures and the program of actions planned are shown in the
attached table. The main lines of this program can be summarized as follows:



- 44 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 12
(a) Improved Access to the First Basic Education Cycle
As laid down in the reform program, the Government of the Kingdom of
Morocco has introduced, since the 1985-86 academic year, a new nine-year
program of basic education consisting of a first six-year cycle and a second
three-year cycle. This new structure will not only allow significant salary
savings as a result of salary differentials for teachers at these two levels,
but will also provide an additional year of education, thereby reducing
boarding costs. To this end, the Ministry of Education intends to continue
its program to construct classrooms, school cafeterias and accommodation for
teaching and administrative personnel. In accordance with the 1988-92
orientation Plan objectives, this construction program will include about
11,600 accommodations, 1,400 school cafeterias and, in order to gain
experience, 120 wells and 120 sanitary facilities.
To promote a more rational utilization of premises, the system of
pedagogical organization, i.e. the shift system, will be generalized (two
schools accommodating three classes). Measures will be taken to encourage
local community participation, such as: land availability, site selection,
building maintenance, etc. .
(b) Improvement of School Attendance
To increase the enrollment of school-age children and to reduce
drop-outs, and particularly girls, MEN will introduce a series of measures to
encourage rural families by improving their access to textbooks at reasonable
prices, increasing families awareness, promoting an awareness of the
advantages of enrolling and maintaining their children in school, and
promoting local initiatives. Specifically, MEN will provide an initial stock
of textbooks to the school cooperatives, which will be responsible for
maintaining and renewing this stock by recovering their costs. Concerning
school cafeterias, their network will be extended, the number of beneficiaries
increased and the quality of portions improved. Awareness and information
campaigns will be organized in rural communities and MEN will help finance
provincial and local initiatives designed to increase girls' enrollment.
(c) Improving the Ouality of Teachina
School attendance in rural areas can only be improved insofar as
children have access to quality teaching. From this standpoint, MEN will
continue and complete the efforts already begun under the reform program in
the following key areas: the reorganization of education programs in
conjunction with new teaching methods and the evaluation of learning; the
recruitment, training, retraining and assignment of men and women teachers in
rural areas; strengthening multi-level education; and finally, strengthening
the role of school principals. In addition, in conjunction with the Ministry
of Public Health, MEN will consolidate its school health programs through the
introduction of teaching modules into the regular program, better health
inspection programs and the provision of glasses.



- 45 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 12
(d) Strengthening the Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Services
To ensure optimal coverage of scattered rural communities and to
strengthen the school mapping and statistical services, MEN will set up an
integrated school mapping management system. This system will provide better
monitoring of education activities and population and educational data. It
will also provide basic data for research and evaluation activities, which are
an essential component of this innovative program. So as to develop the
research and evaluation functions that will make it possible to measure the
impact of specific measures on enrollment and learning, the MEN will conduct
two research projects, one on educational material and textbooks and the other
on teacher training and supervision. These activities will be conducted in
close collaboration with institutions in Morocco and overseas, thus allowing
exchanges of information on the results of the research and the experience
acquired.
(e) Rationalization of Budgetarv Allocations
To achieve the objectives summarized above, the Government of the
Kingdom of Morocco will earmark necessary funds to implement the program to
develop the first basic education cycle in rural areas. Aware of the impact
of these measures on the education sector budget and of the importance of
controlling the increase of the additional expenditure that will result from
the introduction of the program, MEN will take a series of steps designed to
improve the effectiveness and rationalize the ucilization of education
resources. These measures are aimed at rationalizing: (i) the recruitment,
and assignment of teachers with a view to their better integration into the
rural environment and to recognition of the contribution of education in rural
areas to development; (ii) the system and programs for training teachers, by
consolidating institutions and improving supervision ratios; (iii) the
deployment and allocation of nonteaching personnel at the secondary level. In
addition, budgetary measures will be taken to increase and maintain activities
that are essential to preserving the quality of education, such as: the
provision of educational material, pedagcgical supervision, training and
retraining of teachers and the maintenance of school buildings.
0770g



Status and/or Actions                            Actions Planned Under
Obiectives                                         Being Taken by the Government                           the Proposed Program
1.   Access to Primary education in rural areas
1.1 Improve access to primary                             Under the education sector reform                   To meet the needs deriving
education in rural areas.                                 program, the Government continues to implement    from the increase in                        -,
the policy aiming at universal primary              enrollments in existing                0
education in Morocco by the end of the next         rural schools and to ensure
decade and, more specifically,                      a 84. coverage rate of
intends to improve access to primary                rural areas by 1994, the
education in rural areas.  The                      Ministry of National
Government will complete the introduction           Education (MEN) plans to
of a six-year primary education cycle in            build about 11,600 new classrooms,
1990-91.                                            some 30% being as extensions to
existing schools and some 70% as
new schools.
1.2 Apply revised construction and                        Prefabricated classrooms are being                  The same construction
equipment standards for primary                           built according to construction                     standards will be applied
schools in rural areas.                                   and equipment standards developed                   to classrooms and
under the education sector reform                   cafeterias.  The central
program.  Schools in remote                         schools will incorporate an
douars will also be equipped with                   office for school management.
a cafeteria.                                        On an experimental basis,
about 120 new schools with
cafeterias will be equipped
with sanitary facilities and
wells to provide potable water.                 z-
1.3 Improve teachers' living                              MEN is building accommodations for                  MEN will build some 2,900
conditions in remote rural areas.                         personnel in remote areas.  These                   accommodation units which
units are rented to the teachers                    will be allocated in
assigned to the adjacent primary                    accordance with current
schools.  Priority is given to                      policies.
teaching couples, groups of
teachers and to the school director
if the acconmnodation is close to the
central school
1.4 Improve utilization rates of                          Since 1986, MEN has been using a new                The shift system will be
premises to maximize their                                system of pedagogical organization,                  generalized in rural areas.
utilization.                                              i.e. a shift system (2 schools                      Minimum student numbers for
accommodating 3 classes within a                    opening a class will be
timetable occupying 6 days a week).                 observed.
The minimum number of students
justifying the opening of a class is
currently 15 for a single-level class
and 7x2 for a multi-level class.



Status and/or Actions                             Actions Planned Under
Obiectives                                           Being Taken by the Government                            the Proposed Program
1.5 Encourage local community                              MEN is encouraging local community                    MEN will continue to apply
participation.                                             participation in the construction,                    these criteria for the
equipping and maintenance of                          introduction of schools by
premises.  In addition, MEN is                        encouraging communities to
currently examining the areas in                      give direct or indirect
which local communities can bring                     support, such as providing
some support to primary education.                   a site and construction
This work is part of the general                     materials, carrying out
process of decentralization.                          related works (fences,
accommodation. improvement
of school grounds, sanitary
facilities, etc.) and
building maintenance.
2.   Expanding access to Primary education
in rural areas
2.1 Improve the availability of                            Textbooks, printed and distributed                     To enable the school
textbooks and school supplies at                           in Morocco, can be acquired by MEN or                 cooperatives to set up a
reasonable cost to the parents of                          by the school cooperatives from the                   bas-ic working stock,
rural students.                                            publishers with a discount on the resale              MEN will provide an
price specified by contract between MEN               initial allocation of
and the publishers.  Some cooperatives                textbooks which will
are using this system to buy textbooks                become the property of the
which are lent to families.                           rural school cooperatives.
They will be responsible
for establishing, managing
and maintaining a system of
textbook loans to students.
Parents will be charged about
1/3 of the market value, these
amounts being used to repienish
the cooperative's stock.
Cooperatives can buy school
supplies with their own resources
and resell them to families.
2.2 Increase enrollments of girls in school.               During visits organized by the                         These visits will be
Provincial Delegations' Planning                      carried out systematically.
Services to mark the establishment of                 To promote the education of
a new school, meetings are being                      girls, campaigns to inform
organized with community                              and increase parents' and rural
representatives and parenis of                        communities' awareness will be
students to sensibilize them to the                   organized regularly and in
importance of education and to                        particular when a school is              m  Z
encourage them to enroll their                        opened.  To strengthen the                  X
children in school.                                   impact of these campaigns,
MEN will issue a directive               0
to the Provincial Delegations
and will distribute



Status and/or Actions                             Actions Planned Under
Obiectives                                           Being Taken by the Government                            the Proposed Program
information manuals to those          X 
responsible for conducting            0 Z
these campaigns. The                     X
Provincial services                   c_
responsible for education             0
will be closely associated
with these efforts.                   -
Enrollment levels for girls
and their attendance at
school will be monitored by
the services responsible
for educational statistics.
2.3 Promote local initiatives                              As part of the decentralization of                    Through consultations at
designed to expand enrollment,                             management, MEN is encouraging                         the regional and provincial
especially of girls.                                       Delegates and provincial leaders                      level, MEN will support
to promote provincial or local                        local community initiatives
initiatives adapted to the                            designed to expand
specific conditions of their                          enrollments of girls in
environment.                                          school.  These initiatives
will, if necessary,
receive support from
MEN. Timetables may
also be adapted to                                I
community activities
(market days,                                    co
harvest season, etc.).
3.   Improve the quality of teaching quality
in the first basic education cycle
3.1 Continue the reform of education programs.             Under the education sector reform                      MEN will continue to
program, MEN has begun a complete                     reorganize primaty
reorganization of basic education                     education programs, by
programs (from the first primary year                 including a 6th year
to the ninth year).  The revised                      slated for introduction
teaching program for the first year of                in 1990-91.  The introduction
primary education was introduced in                   of the new curriculum will
September 1987; those for the                         be completed the same year,
second and third years of primary                     along with a complete
education in September 1988.                          revision of subjects and
the introduction of new
textbooks. Teachers will
be trained to use the new
programs (see section 3.2).



Status and/or Actions                               Actions Planned Under
Obiectives                                            Being Taken by the Government                              the Proposed Program
In addition, MEN will
develop a range of standard
learning tests which in the
first instance will be
applied to a sample of
students and may then be
generalized during a second
phase. The new programs
conception will continue
to be focused on education
by objectives.
3.2 Improve teacher quality and                              Recruitment of student-teachers is                      To recruit qualified
promote teacher integration into the                         based on a national competition open                    candidates who are
rural environment.                                           to candidates who at a minimum have                     motivated for assignment in
obtained the baccalaureat. B.A.                        rural areas, selection
students currently represent the                       criteria and procedures of
majority of the trainees in                            the student-teachers will be
the CFI.  These candidates are                         revised.  Candidates will be
recruited annually according to                        selected among the ones holding
school system needs determined                         the baccalaureat at the level
on the basis of data provided by                       of the Provincial Delegations.
the Provincial Delegations.  The                       The improvement of the academic
latter, in accordance with MEN                         and educational qualification                       |
development policy of the educational                  level, following the
system and assignment criteria,                        resotructuration of the primary
determine the places of assignment                     cycle which now encompasses six
for the new graduates.                                 years of studies, as well as the
preparation for the multi-level
education supervision and the
introduction of sanitary and
technological education require
a reorganization of the teachers
initial training which will be
brought up to two years, as soon
as the CFI's capacity will
allow it. Moreover, after
the training, the minimum period
of assignment to a rural area
will be 2 consecutive years at
least. For each additional
year, bonus points will be
taken into account in decisions             v
on promotion to administrative           GQ 
or educational duties. Finally.          XJ
criteria for salary increases               _
will be linked to the                     0
performance of additional
duties (multi-level teaching
or performing the duties
of assistant-principal).



Status and/or Actions                            Actions Planned Under
Obiectives                                          Being Taken by the Government                           the Prooosed Prortam
3.3 Improve the expert level of the first                 Along with the introduction of new                    To strengthen and improve
basic education cycle.                                    education programs, MEN has revised                   initial training and
the training programs in the Teacher                 retraining, MEN has
Training Centers (CFI) and has                       selected 2 CFIs as Centers           Q
organized retraining courses for                     of Excellence, one at
teachers.  These courses are                         Marrakech and the other at
supervised by teams of                               Fes.  These centers will            0
inspectors, CFI trainers and                         develop new teaching
school principals.                                   modules and a series of
retraining activities that
will be tested and
evaluated before being
generally introduced.
Periods of retraining will
be organized in the CFIs
for existing teachers, who
will be replaced by
student-teachers undergoing
practical training. This
system will not only
promote the development
of new methods for existing
teachers, but will O'so
enable practical training
to be organized in rural
areas for student-teachers.
3.4 Strengthen multi-level education.                      In the context of expanding of the                   The two Centers of                              un
first basic education cycle in rural                 Excellence (see section 3.2)                    
areas, increasing use is being made                  will assist in developing
of multi-level education in order to                 and improving methods
meet the needs of classes with small                 of multi-level education.
numbers of students.  Studies are                    Under the direction of
under way in order to set up action                  experts at these two
programs targeted at the                             institutions, the work
generalization of new methods                        begun by the study team
regarding organization of programs,                  will be pursued and
timetable adjustments, development                   operationalized.  Teaching
of appropriate materials and                         modules will be included in
teacher training.                                    student-teacher training
programs; retraining
sessions and practical
training assignments will
be organized for existing
teachers and for
student-teachers. These
activities will be
supervised by teams of
pedagogical inspectors
in the provinces concerned
and will then be generally
introduced in the CFIs
throughout the Kingdom.



Status and/or Actions                            Actions Planned Under
Obiectives                                          Being Taken by the Government                            the Proposed Proaram
3.5 Strengthen the role of school principals.             MEN is currently organizing short                     MEN wishes to strengthen
initial training sessions for school                 the role of principals,
principals taking up their duties.                   more specifically the
These sessions, varying between 2 and                teaching supervision
4 weeks in length, are oriented                      function, in order to
toward administrative methods and                    complement the inspection
education legislation.                               process.  To this end, MEN
will establish a study team
which will be asked to
review the role and
functions of school
principals, revise
selection criteria;
identify training needs and
define those supervisory
functioss of principals
that best meet the need for
pedagogical and
administrative supervision
in rural schools. Initial
training and retraining
programs will be devised
and provided for school
principals at the two
Centers of Excellence
before being generally                           Ln
applied. Finally, to
ensure better supervision
of satellite schools, a new
function of
assistant-principal will be
created. Bonus points will
be awarded to teachers
carrying out these new
responsibilities.
3.6 Strengthen school health services.                    Acting in conjunction with the                        MEN will incorporate the
Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), MEN                school health modules in
has prepared a series of school                      the regular education
health modules that will be                          program of the first basic
incorporated in the primary education                education cycle and will
program.  Health inspection services                 arrange for the training of
will be provided by MOPH, which has a                teachers.  The health
team of doctors and health                           inspection services will
technicians responsible for visiting                 be strengthened so as to               z
educational institutions.                            ensure better coverage of                x
the school network.                      -J
Finally, MEN will carry out          o
a feasibility study on the
production and distribution
of glasses at an appropriate



Status and/or Actions                               Actions Planned Under
Obiectives                                            Beino Taken by the Government                              the Proposed Program
price, in order to
complement the services
already availIable:                    o
preliminary diagnosis and                 
examination of visual                   _ x
acuity in the classroom,                o _s
ophthalmic examination in               0
provincial health centers,
and prescriptions for
glasses by specialists.
The results of this study will
be sent to the Bank
September 30, 1990.
4.   Strengthenina of the olanning, monitoring and evaluation services
4.1 Strengthen the planning and                              In the context of the study on                          MEN will establish an
school mapping services.                                     multi-level education, MEN's                            integrated school mapping
provincial school mapping services                     management system using a
have prepared maps showing the                         spatial database.  This
location of schools, existing                          system will facilitate the
communities and their populations.                     management of school
mapping activities and will
provide significant support
to the education statistics
services by ensuring better                       L
integration of population
data (school-age
population, population
movements) and data on
schooling; (numbers in
school, -ate of coverage of
douars, projected needs).
4.2 Strengthen the monitoring of                             As part of its education reform                         The OPEPS will continue to
subprojects and activities targeted                          program, the Government has set up an                   be responsible for
at basic education in rural areas.                           Interministerial Committee to direct                    monitoring the program and
the reform program as a whole.  MEN                    liaison with the Bank.
has established a permanent committee                  More specifically, DPEPS
to monitor the reforms, containing                     will be responsible for
representatives of the main                            producing an annual report
departments of MEN affected by the                     on the reform  program
reform.  The Directorate of Planning                   measures described here.
for Primary and Secondary Education                    In addition, DPEPS will
(OPEPS) will coordinate the permanent                  submit an annual report to
committee responsibilities, as regards                 the Bank describing
program monitoring and liaison with the                activities and the results
World Bank.  The DPEPS is also responsible             achieved, along with an
for managing the school construction                   action plan detailing
program and the procurement of                         proposed activities, their
equipment, furniture and materials                     execution timetable, the
required for primary and secondary                     resources allocated and the
education.                                             results expected at the end



Status and/or Actions                               Actions Planned Under
Obiectives                                            Being Taken by the Government                              the Prooosed Program
of the period. This latter
report will contain the
expected and actual
outcomes for each of the
main project activities:
new construction, increases
in enrollments and student
numbers, particularly
girls, distribution of
textbooks and school
supplies to the school
cooperatives,
awareness-building
campaigns and local
initiatives designed to
increase enrollments of
girls, introduction of new
programs, and training and
retraining of teaching
personnel (student-teachers,
teachers and school
directors).
MSP (as regards health
inspection programs and
school health services)
will also prepare a report to
be sent to the Bank for
comment and an exchange of
views before September 30
each year. This will be
the subject of a joint
review.
4.3 Strengthen the evaluation                                There is no central administrative                      To strengthen education
services.                                                    unit responsible for program evaluation                 research, two research
within MEN.  However, different                        projects will be undertaken
research activities are conducted by                   to measure the impact of
specialized units within MEN                           textbooks and teacher
departments (for example, special                      training on learning.
planning studies, the program                          These research projects
services of the education                              will be planned and
departments), the Faculty of                           executed in close
Education Sciences at Rabat and the                    conjunction with the
institutions training personnel for                    development of standardized
education.  A number of                                learning tests (section
inter-institutional cooperation                        3.1).  In addition, to
activities have been started in                        promote exchar;es of                     o
recent years, thereby promoting links                  information and the
between educational and                                dissemination of the                     _4
research/action institutions in                        results of this research,
Morocco and overseas.                                  MEN intends to strengthen
institutional cooperation
and the links between the
Programs Division of the
Primary Education
Department and foreign
institutions.



Status and/or Actions                             Actions Planned Under
Obiectives                                           Being Taken by the Government                             the Proposed Proaram
5.   Improving the rational and effective utilization of resources
5.1 Improve teacher recruitment and                        See Section 3.2                                       See Section 3.2                        =  z
selection methods.
5.2 Rationalize teacher training.                          With the moroccanization of teaching                  The institutions training              Ns _
personnel and the stabilization of                   secondary education                    o
demand for new teachers, MEN is                       teachers (Regional
planning to rationalize the network                   Pedagogical Centers and
of institutions providing teacher                    Teacher Training Colleges)
training, while expanding teacher                    will be extended to regions.
training to provinces level.                         However, their number will
be reduced. The remaining
infrastructures will be
assigned to education
and the surplus personnel
will be redeployed
as education teachers.
The redeployment of these
resources is currently
examined in a study, the
results of which will be
analyzed in September lB9.
5.3 Rationalize the functions of                           MEN carried out a thorough census                     In the light of the results
non-teaching personnel.                                    of nonteaching personnel at                           of this survey, and according                   un
establishments . In addition,                         to the recommendations of the
a study on administrative                             study, MOE would continue the
functions at the secondary ,evel                      redeployment of non-teaching
is being conducted.                                   personnel, according to
the Directive for secondary
schools.
5.4 Ensure the availability of the                         Under the education sector reform                     To preserve the quality in
budgetary resources required to                            program, MEN has revised the                           the first basic education
maintain the quality in the first                          budgetary allocation criteria for                      cycle, MEN will establish
cycle of basic education.                                  unit investment and operating costs                   a series of budgetary
at the teaching level in the first                    allocation criteria for
basic education cycle.  The application               non-salary costs designed
of the new criteria has led to a                      to ensure the availability
significant reduction in the unit                     of resources for such
construction costs of prefabricated                   essential activities as:
premises.  Meanwhile, as part of                      the provision of teaching
the reform program, a study team is                   materials, pedagogical
examining the current position                        supervision, teacher
and needs regarding maintenance.                      training and retraining,
Recommendations will be submitted                     and maintenance of
to MEN.  This study will be ready                     establishments and
in the course of 1989.                                equipment.  These norms
are currently being defined
in a study, the results of
which will be examined in
September 1989.



., a _ ''   _- _- - - -R-_   --    -  --                              -_             -  - --  ---  _-- |
o "- X  _   Q   -                            c-a  --                  c-an           -    -   -    -     -      -     -
o-   _        a                         .o . -,                c-5                  c-C.     io*   __c     c-o-f-.            n   e    _
.00  -                                                                                            ccc -~~~~~- -----     --
~~~ -     
a               a R_ --     ----__ _.4           _-a                  R aR             R    _o     R - a               C



KIN9DOW  OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRINARY EDUCATION PRJECT
Evolution of the NME Budqet by Category of Expenditure and by Level of Education, 1975-19B9
(in lHillions of Current DN)
1975    1976    1977    1979    1979    1990    1981    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    19B7    199
A. MOE Recurrent ludget /
Total                    1,318.6  1,796.2  2,201.6  2,664.0  3,173.2  3,519.3  3,973.9  4,691.9  5,264.1  5,433.6  6,079.1  6,536.4 6,986.9  7,247.5
Prisary Level              592.4   697.7   793.0   976.7  1,083.9  1,245.8  1,412.0  1,663.3  1,897.4  1,926.6  2,145.9  2,292.8  2,426.1  2,561.3
(as 2 total)              44.22   39.92   36.05    36.7n    34.22   35.42   35.5%    35.52   36.02    35.52   35.32    35.1t   35.22    35.32
Secondary Level            572.2   959.2  1,094.   1,304.1  1,476.6  1,629.3  1,905.9  2,150.1  2,390.9  2,573.3  2,991.3  3,076.1  3,249.2  3,354.3
(as 2 total)              43.42    47.92    49.72   49.01   46.52    46.32    45.42   45.82    45.42   47.42    47.62    47.12    47.22    46.31
Post-Secondary Level       164.0   240.3   313.9   383.2   612.7   644.2   756.0   979.5   975.9   933.7  1,042.0  1,167.5  1,211.5  1,331.9                               uJ,
(/n S total)              12.42    13.42   14.32   14.42    19.32   18.32   19.02    19.72    18.52    17.22   17.12    17.9S    17.62    19.42                          a'
9. NOE Investment Budget bI
Total                      579.1   751.3   925.9   756.5   836.3   838.0  1,242.5  1,932.2  1,961.2  1,307.9  1,617.9  2,792.5  2,505.0  2,206.0
Primary Level              121.0   167.0   243.1   268.0   162.3   233.9   399.3   503.5   522.5   419.7   462.1   902.2   735.5   695.1
(as 2 total)              20.92   22.22   29.42   35.42    19.42   27.92    31.32    27.52   26.62    32.02   29.62   32.61    29.42   31.52
Secondary Level            359.2   399.2   437.7   453.6   537.5   696.2   653.2   925.4  1,042.0   683.2   850.5  1,247.9  1,176.6   913.6
(as 2 total)              61.92    53.12    53.02    60.02    64.32    59.22    52.62    50.52    53.12    52.22    52.62   44.92    47.02   41.42
Post-Secondary Level        9.9    I5.1   145.1    34.9   136.5   109.0   200.0   403.3   396.7   206.0   305.3   632.5   592.9   597.3
(as 2 total)              17.32    24.62    17.62    4.62    16.32    12.92    16.12   22.02    20.22    15.92    18.92    22.12   23.72    27.12
/ INIF Loi des Finantes, successive years.
b/ Credit Illocations (CrOdits de paiement) only.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Evolution of the MOE Recurrent Budget for Primary Education. 1983-1988
(In Millions of Current Dirhams, Except as Noted)
1983     1984      1985     1986      1987     1988
A. LEVELS (in Millions of Current DH)
TOTAL                     1,897.4  1,926.6  2,145.8  2,292.8  2,426.1  2,561.3
Salary Expenditures       1,809.8  1,876.0  2,054.1  2,211.0  2,318.5  2,443.6
Non-Salary Expenditures      87.6      50.6     91.7      81.8    107.6    117.7
of which:
Maintenance                21.4      22.3     23.5      25.5     29.4      32.2
Educational Materials       3.1       3.1      3.3       3.5      5.6       6.2
School Canteen             10.0      11.9     15.0      15.1     15.1      20.0
Health Care                 0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.5       0.5
Vehicles                    0.6       0.6      0.6       0.7      0.7       0.8
B. BUDGET SHARES (in %)
Categories / MOE Recurrent Budget for Primary Education
Salary Expenditures          95.4%    97.4%    95.7%    96.4%    95.6%    95.4%
Non-Salary Expenditures       4.6%      2.6%     4.3%      3.6%     4.4%      4.6%
of which:
Maintenance                 1.1%      1.2%     1.1%      1.1%     1.2%      1.3%
Educ. Materials             0.2%      0.2%     0.2%      0.2%     0.2%      0.2%
Source: MOF Loi des Finances, successive years.



- 58 -
ANNEX 11
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
MOE PROJECTED REQUIREMENTS FOR ADDITIONAL CLASSROOMS
Existing schools      Existing schools
with 1 classroom      to which more than             Douars
PROVINCE          CITIES        to which 1 to 3        3 classrooms are               with no
classrooms are      being added on site             Schools       Total
being added      or in satellite schools
AGADIR               AGADIR                 27                       50                         198          275
TAROUDANTE            98                       114                        292          504
TANTAN                  0                        0                          0            0
TATA                    5                       37                          0           42
GUELMIME                0                       21                         40           61
TIZNIT                 15                       22                         68          105
MARRAKECH            MARRAKECH             138                      228                         6U         1,014
EL KALAA              33                       115                        280          428
ESSAOUIRA             29                        18                        467          514
OUARZAZATE             44                       86                         118         248
BENI - MELLAL        BENI - MELLAL          19                      193                         180          392
AZILAL                 27                       11                        266          304
KNOURISGA               6                       37                         32           75
EL JADIDA            EL JADIDA              68                      318                         428         814
SAFI                  27                       191                        378          596
SETTAT               SETTAT                 74                      428                          62         564
BEN SLIMANE            12                       39                         12           63
CASABLANCA - ANFA    ANFA                    3                        0                           6            9
AIN CHOK               18                       24                         48           90
MONAMMEDIA           MONAMMADIA             25                       43                          12           80
AIN SEBAA                                                                                0
BEN M SIX            BEN M'SIK                                                                   12           12
EL FIDA
KENITRA              KENITRA                19                      138                         378         535
KHEMISSET              15                      40                         264          319
SIDI KACEM            39                       137                        136          312
RABAT                RABAT                                                                                     0
SALE                    3                      42                         118          163
TEMARA                  0                      42                          92          134
TETOUAN              TETOUAN                 6                       14                         338          358
TANGER                 9                       87                          56          152
LARACRE               21                       40                         274          335
CHEFCHAOUEN            20                      90                          118         228
FES                  FES                     9                       42                         106          157
BOULMANE                0                        0                          20          20
TAOUNATE               30                      156                         146         332
TAZA                   18                     252                         296          566
AL HOCEIMA              7                        0                         116         123
OWJDA                OUJDA                  41                      123                         106          270
FIGUIG                 7                        0                          24           31
NADOR                   7                     319                          122         448
MEKNES               MEKNES                  8                       70                          62          140
IFRANE                 9                        4                          62           75
KHENIFRA              22                       44                         154          220
ERRACHIDIA            32                      445                          20          497
GRAND TOTAL                                990                    4,060                       6,555       11,605
Source: MOE Department of School Planning and School Mapping.



- 59 -
OMWAUTtyg tMCATtON tiMICA"U                                                           ANNEX  1 2.
CKNTLAL
:covaimm"
:91ruotTuu    -11DUCATtow                               W"Ftl?1061               ucuagm
:001 IMUCATtON  .112CUU11117      :AWLT                :LAT9 M       :           vvtT COST :FRISCUS110m:
:Gw  P110:              -As FZRCIIIT    :101111011MILU  :LITRUMPRIMITtPILIPAIIII   :Fitwm    f2twx                     :110111 FROM   'SICONDARY-SICONDAtT HIGNIS
east: POV. :CAPtTA  !PUCIIIIT GNP:TVTAL CINTItAL-AWAUnD TO! 1LAT9                   :&NROLL.:SOML           :M01131TIRILIKICATION  !P11twT It  :1010I.L.   STUDgwri  9"Not-
:ONTOTIZ) TO  :ODVSRMwf    ;FL[  SIC  RI            (1)    :1ATtO    :CYCLA         4111.      :AJ1 P112CIINT: SIMUCART   ALATIO         Pit         RATI)
coucATtow  glpgmotruu                (t)         (19,41   (1)            (t)     :TgACAU    :GNP/CAPITA:        (t)          (t)       ttACHCA         tl
(6)        (7)        (1)         (9)          (10)           (11)         (12)
DEVELOPED COUNTRI95
AUSTt"IA              au      -66  8.970          6.16          14.6                             -           lolle      too          21         -                ot           ?I
:AAADA                it     :1.?b  6.6job        7.70                        lo&. ).Of 13at   946           1069       too          11          111.9st       too            *25         is       ::.a
--rep"T r.a.          'q     61.1  12..'00        6.6            9.90         -                    "b         S"        iooa         --                         1000          946
METWeILLAROS          14      I-.O  10.690        7.9            $.I          20    Si    25       996.       96         Os          Is          WI             el            62         1-1
.rw t1ALAAD           A.)      1.211 6,0ailb      S.SW          13.4          V     S I   is       "b        too        100          2i          11.6           too           el          II
SWL0tN                it       6.3  14.2so        9.0           14.2          1 1   to   10        Ito        its       100          Ise         19.9           too           its         OGY,    ib.,
EASTtaft AFGICA
IATSWANA  -           8)       I.ob      41100    6.n           21.0          41   is    13       40         100         77                      10.0           40            10         11          1.80
eugummi               41      4.2        M        I.skw         14.0          4)   26    Z?        25         lox        is          37         30.3             12             S*        it         I.;c
00040S                44       A..b      'A t      1.1v         zfi.n         49    29    la       69         76         60          39         -                45           )6          is         3. *a
aliteRXITI            a.      n.6       660       1.0           11.9          71    16    ...      10         41         66          60         61.0            60            10          it        n.b')
tTminplA              As     43.0        Ito       1.6p          0 S          Ss    Is    17       it         31         we          61          19.1            Ip           16         44
xt"A                  42      11.0        w.       s.swb        20.1b         as    16    1 1      46b       III         is          16          14.4            115          Is          26
LFS.Irmn             112,      1.6b     4)sb      S.S           16.9          u     13    36       Ilb       1169        41          44           9.6           46            z 1        2 1         I.Iz
-AD4GA%CAR                     11.15     110      6.0.          14.0          $1    as    19       io         $612       33          ssb          4.0            is           16          21         l-,"
-ALAWI                         6. I lp    2)0.     ).s          11.4          Is    14    25       zib        62         31          61,          $.fl           11             4         21         a-'
-AURITIUS             SI       I.ob  1.1706       6.)           14.0          46    If#    I       606        91         7:          23          13.0           100           140        II          I .. I
RWANDA                el       S.9b      2?0-      1.6          27.4          7 1    16    11      Ile        65         10          60          16.0             9             $         16        0.-3
SETCHRI.I.F.4         79       o.b    1.710        i.9          22.46         us  Ila  too                                           is          -               -            -          -         -
S-AALLA               41       ..s       IRO       I.%          Io.S          iob  4,b   Ab        job        22b        Rob         296          9.0b           fjob          1210       Z?         1.3c
S UAA                 40      1g..'b     loub      1.1          ---           be    It    ...      11         $104       ba          34           1.6           44            to          16        ...
swAZILAMn             el       ... I b   OA06      ).aaP.       In. 4         I I   u     I i      65b        91         SO          13          11.0                         it          is         1.
TARIANIA              R-    Is.$        'ho      5.0           11.7          .1    to   16        79b        "b         el          41          It.0            19b            I         I"         1.)c
UGASUA                        I s . a t,    ,zoo   1.6          12.0          is    It   is        sz         -* 6       42           3A          I .51,         SI            le-        2 2        ).Aw
tAlet                        29.4t.    :1.)b       7.7          26.4          -     -     10      'A          14,        is          30          11.0           60            Is          is         I.:,
z4msIA                AV       S'?b      %66b     4.59          11.1          44    2)   22        6&b        95         so          46          11.9            19            16         12         ..$a
a I     7.711    1006       $.I           lo.$         62    12      6         b       W          Ss           14         20.0            Ss            Is         is         O.'lo
WEST99M AtItCA
stoll                 79       1.0       Jjb     6.Sw          )15.0         43   2 1     II    il.          43         10          As          16.0            30           11          43         1.007
SUIkXIILA             III      6.5       liob      2.1w         21.7          43   29    is        0          16         2s          $1          14.1            1 6            I         26         1.01
cumlooN               64      10.0      ialob      SAP          -             I I    'A   28      20          of         65b         io          -               -             23         26         LID
C.A.R.                so       2.6b      mob       11.111"      24.day        40    a 6    14     -           79         4S          6sof        is              -             I a        67         1.600
cw                    I?       11.2      0*        2 . t,       6.4           Sol  14,   1        -           64         19          60          111.11          is             le        3 7        1.806
CONGU                 is       I.$       670       9.06"        27.741        -     -     -       -           -          --          U"          -               30            -          63by       4.304
I-JUAT. Gt, I VtA     45      .3. )b     270h      :.A            1.5               26            lob         I I        to          so           S.3            40            25         Ile,       --
GASON                 7-       0.6    )'..Io       )jby           4.0               -                                                 66by       -               --            --         lob,         30
CAMIA                 7,       Lo        220       1.14-          6.5b        46    256   60    job           4'O by     406          27 117     64.10           60            llbgv      I I        -
CK"k                  lb      11.1       .00       ..01         ls.ib         -     -     -       -           71b.7      -            ZIDY       -               --            34.2y      2 I        -
CUMA                  70       5.3       zlop      6.660,       --            2se  Ise  286    20             u          16           Is         10.0"           as            16         I 0        1.004
CU149A AISSAU         No       njo       ilob      --             1.6         66    1 2   -       ISM         sa         10          at           1.0            -            -           I 6        -
[VOST WAST            4)      4.01    720         7.3           62.6          St   'bo     9     Ise?         72         79          31         29.0            At            :zu        30          1.49
LtURIA                so       1.9       $20      4.6           19.6          63   21   24        la          53         13          is         30.0             16           22          30         I.00
WALt                  at       7.06      I"        4-.26        21.76         38    it   it       to          20         60                      ISO            66              I         11         O.""
R"RITAOIIA            66       I.Ilt    4106       5.0          22.4          12   4.0   25       II          Ss         is          io          10.0           114            16         is         4.90
.IGI11                66       5.2       100       2.5          21.0          40    Is    to      14          Is         20          )6         4i.0             )7            6          is         0.50
micialA               0)      93.61-    160b       7,47         16.0          -     -     13      Set         91         YO          36          19.5            41           21          10         Z.00
11"11GAI              p        6.6       No        S.01k        241.0         46b  Ise  it-    Zs             $2         If          66         16.0             Ile          168        I&          1.23a
Salta"  timt          I?       ).6       310       4.06         16.0b         -       -     -     isb         Ila        -           is         2S.06            66            is%        32         0.60"
TOGO                  Fs       2.4       400      6.5"          26.54         )Os  lea  314    is             14         60          SA"        34.0             53           lifogy     46.         1.009
litCA AIM  ?11111 CARISSM
W11,111               7;      ZI.]   2.110         2.7          10.9          4)0  lie  lea    glb            0111       53           II        -                17           31           a        23.00
SAKOW                 7        0.2    3.770        Sd           19.1          Sit   %     11    lib                                  34         -                17           is          19       -
11"111410101          70       0.3    3, "O       I1.SSWT       12.14         4ble  Ila  led    "b           loop                    117        19.96           to"           71117      lo?       -
NLIVIA                so       11.4      $so       6.197        10.56         -       -     -     63          147                    201        -                -             Is?        -         ti.60?
suilL                 79    116.11   1.770         3.8           6.3          5 I         1 4     76          iley                   23*9         4.5b          61-           Ise?        Itial     11.621,
CMILC                 76      10.9    1.6"         ).lb?        I).ob         -           -       -          iit'Mt                  )&-I       -                -            Way         20bv      11.001"
COLOISIA              so      26.1b  1,180b        S.)          2S.O          is   20    20    late           76         16          it          6.6             -            41          20        10.0267
COSTA atCA            60       2.16  1.6106        6.4           31.1         60    27    33      40          1)         77           3 3         5.5            77           'O          2 7       16.00
CUNA                  Fe       9.6       -         6.0          11.0          -       -     -     96         lilbsv      Is           Ijbil     -                is           I I b"      I 5       19.02IR
WRINICAN UP.          90       %.I    1.030        2.9          13.0          it    31   zi       686         40         It          St           1.1            96           30          13        16.00
ICUADOI               so       6.6b  1.110         6.00         16.7          65    31   16       $I         lo$         -           36          11.6           46            41          16       :9.00
9L IALVAM             IT       6.4       660       1.4,by       21.1"         66     0   21    fli            m"?        32          so         -                61           16627       3?bT       7.90"
GUATOWA               as       6.6    1. 0go       11 IST        11.66        -     -     -       -           69651      -           31by       -                69            ISO?       igpp       5301
CUVAM                 it   0.6   .30   i.tby    13.1by    -   -   -   -                                                  -            32"    -                   -            solar   -              3.00"
PAITI                 so       S.0b      130       1.49           I."?        as     9      6     23.                    10          41          19.0            618            44        27         0.60
momtu                 74       3.6       M         moar         14.3"         626  Ila  its   60              69UT       we          41by        12.88                         it"        Is        11.00?
JWAICA                to       2.1    1.110        6.1          11.1          V     43   to       w           n          Vs          40           S.S            is           III         is         4.00
oulco                 so      65.11   L'840        4.1           17.04        44    it    is      911         IN         $3          44           9.5            66            so         il        10.30
Nt'VA   A             is       2.6b      ololl    S.Obw         14:06         --r   -     -       lob         Wma        la           310        -               -             16be       job       -
PAXAPA                is       1.46  I'Ssob        m1mvY        zI a          426  Ile  I)        s3b         "br        -            isbi       11.6            IS&           lob?       27br      meow,
PAIAGUAT              79       3.0    1.160        1.69         14.2          63    it   20       66          63         is           n           1.4t           16            II         11         0.10
tcau                  N       16.6    1,000        3.6           14.1         %)    is    19      so          83         'A           It          9.0            St            is         21        i4'.607
Tolotwo 6 Tag.   77            1.1    3,910        a.8by          &.$by       64    11   20       Is          IN         II           la         to.st           419           62         la        -
URWUAT                is    I.$  I'm               2.1            9.6b        -    -   -    96               joibS    -               36.        -               -             6669    -            17.4067
VK11UU9AA             74      i614    3.644        11. I 1,      16.9b        -       -     -     a          lobbm       -            is         -               -             No&        17        1L.Loy



- 60 -
ANNEX  12                                                                                 DUUTI" tomiCA"u
am" 3. 19411
up"Difun   :90UCATtow                                                      NCYUINT
OW M;CArtON : UCURPAR           AWIJ               .1011 M                  UNIT COST 12000151101:
-GNP fttt              :AS mmso        :UPKIMITUSIS AJT12ACT-F6tWV!PlIqAAV    :PKIWT  P19WV    -AATI MIN   :62CO04AV:SICMAII -;.490
SAM   PO. :Cot?& $%Cgaft GWtftTAL CWTR";AA.L4CATO  TO: - lik"                 tN1WX.L..;s0M         ITUDIM: 9OUCAIION lflilVAN  10  'INILOLL-  -ITU"INTS  940I.L.
TtAR:llIL,L1.'(US8)  :MOM    10 ;009LVAM            'I'll  W    "t    (2)    OATIO  :CYCLI            PRO      :JUI PIRCtOT: $1CONDILAT  !IATIO        Pts         401.
(19161   (t)          (1)    :TZAM        :=71CUITA.    (21             (9)    TCAC492         11
(4)                                                                      (IO) -    (11)             (12)        Ml        .0
IA
Z!.;.ASIA AND THE t
so .,J00.ob    loot       3.1           7.1         )1   66   II        766       96        ba                      S.0           61           16         :1          6,
'W-911 L A         G 1   00.50    Sao         1.1           9.1         10   1,    6       12b        De        61          ir         11.0           7.           11        :6
IRIA               62    W)o  l.b)bb    I.?.               20.6         LA   LA   I I      to         it        9#                     i6.0           $ 7          I a       I I
-ALAISIA             46     16.16  1.0606    6.1            16.3         Is   40   13        fib                 to          23         16.0           $7           la
a)               $lo      $.4          19.0         40    11   12                 60        ?lo         3to        1S.0           )s            )RI
6    6100    .1. 0-         i4.:o       6o                  7ib       34         es         1 1                       89                      3b
.14GApoke           in       I.-   4.410       I.,           6           3,   .9   le       4)         92        la           I          6.4           46           i
sokoom  ISL.          2      3.2b    640       6.6p,        19.0b        41   36   20        Is        to        so          37         10.5           60           to         is
TWA ",40             :1    64.0b    wob    1.4              20.3         St   16   10        ssb      lot        .8          11          9. 30         64           66         I I
VNMATU               16      0.1b    -         6.)          3313         61   it    6        13       Its        60          34         31.0           is           to          6
SOUTH ASIA
SAKLACtSO            79    92.34       w       t.10         10.147       $1   I I   to      226        617       -           53          S.6                        16         IS        -1
INUTAM              to       III       la      1.6          11.0         -        -     -    10        It
1401A                     659.6       310      2.97          9. WY       -        -     -   34         ?OR       -           61                                     Ila       -          IXG.
490AL                       15.00    isob      1.4         -             -                   to        to        -           is                                     it         11
PARMAP              $2    67.1t    INS    2.0                1.0         n    10   16        31        to        41          IC          5.9           56           it         Is
lAg,  Wok;LAP.M
A                                                            31,         Al   at   I 5       I 2       )lb7      of          310,       -              63            a         2210
AL4961A                     lo      k.170      3. Sy        13.)         348  266  II*    is           01        ASS         p           1,0?                       :97        16
ECTF?               C1    6).16    6504    4.60              1.9         310  Ilso  364    66          is                    )64         9.86                       616        t 00     !7_10
;attct               7 6     0.1   6.164       1.6v         to.0         V    16   a I       -         $14       T           29b                                     ?IVa      VIT      0.0"
I k.L.              79    16.4        -        S.767        I..161                          io        10169                  320                                    4409       266       ..06.
I VAQ                9    12.6   1.110         .. W                                         -         1007                   is                                     4s"        ass       4.1114-
IRZLAND               I      3.6b  4.460       6.169                                        14         ol        In          it                         96          C          1.
I.-206                  10:61..,                                   Ito       as          11         1S.1
4   is  Tob                                                        -            6 of      so         6.9
LegAom                I      2.)      -                      6           -                   -         tba                   19                         -            66a                 ;:W0V
4040C.10             a.     21.6b    6701.   6.0.           3:19         so   4)   19        is        S "         9         I I         IS.1           -            I&$                    Wt
OPAN                 ss      1.21b  6.64*11    3.2          12.144       -         -     -   3ob?       ?is$      $So        W           -              14           Ila        tag      ...
PoikTUGAL            No     Ica%, 1.970b    &.6             Lt.$         so   26   11        la       M           To         is          16.9           0            SS        16         Call
ROMOIA               is    22.1   1.100        S.qbF         6.27        -         -     -            10608                  lib        -               11111        666%      226       lo.wor
stall                16     37.0   6.930       3.11         16.07        -         -     -             9667                  lgb         -              -            61by      -         34. 13"
SVIIA                16      4.6   1.170       6.40         10.1         it   Zs   36        14        pby        so         31b         -              611          6107      no        13.60
1`11141stA           ?t      6.6   1.130       1.00         19.0         62   lo   Is        62b      IW          so         396         11.6           i 11)        las       10         6.00
TuRagy               13      67.   t.310        ).)         16.2         so   :2   26        '36      tio         77         I t          6.0           Ss           26         1 1       &Aw
itmu   4.4.          84      9.31    slob    1.#P           17.1         0    20   la        216       S$         a          St          27.9           60            9        20         1.90
Vilam P.D.R.        42       Lob    430b    7.6              9.1         630  166   04       51        61         u          is          11.02          46           II        30         :.so
st"vjy ?*a 0gVtjoptNC covonits:
%.sber of :0..tries.                                                    to   69   67       81         Oa                    Os          65                                    so        45
Ita.se!                                                      0.7-  M.  (I-  (S.    (I.              (It-      (It-         (11-        (1.--          (Lo-         (I-       (11-
10.0)           s*.))  96I   46)  33)    04)          119)      " I          77)         61.0           100)         66)         $I
5.6            II.?      51   16   23        $I        IN         so         41          r             67           41         26       .1.0
4.0            16.1      AS   31   to        5)        83         II                     I;             65           26         23         I..
5.0            11.0      is   21   13        2S        60         is         as           9             40           46         to        1.3
Q"tttl. 00-ittim:                             I.)             5.4    .S  73   4.5   30.0           19.0      22.$         1.0        $4             23.5         16.5       3.5         $.o
11.0      66   n    to        S3        76        so          16          16
of.tstleft:                         1.9             6.7      11   10      I      19        21         36         li          is             17           13          7        7.4
4.0            t6.0      as   n    it        5)        61         69         3i          Is             61           36         33        3.1
PODTIOM a
CA"P UM04CLANJ                                                   A - DAIM  MO  111 UR  VW                               5 - 141011121111 Of SWJCATION (111110  000
""ITM  InL OR watatua                                            I-DOM  MU  -PI  "a NM so                               t - IN NM PATII OMROSW OPILT
6011111 GOWtORAM                                                 I - CLVA6R 041CIS                                      v - PUIL11C 9%PMITVU  OoLt
INOOM  ?A01-111111 $.DWI                                         I-IV OWALLOW  WtCa                                     t - IKWM  OM-40 STUMM
t - GIM gamnLJWR urto                                    - UMM SMCU
P.M
SOUNCIS:          Colombo I a"  It  VWU  MO  Att"  a  9ftCaStM  004101 field mg"ioW.
Coleman, 3 to 161 Vasld seat sdodagles "tter assessed, Go"fmmm ppefees
smalwar lbo U%m sestimeal Twines.
C001041491-0 94.96tIOM 0496 MO dWM IS ift 0001100948 Of 10"tW 4010444141 0902 of slaslIeft d W89990 Otagam 49
:41adectemal sefoloplete Delve" oswsqw emmit". asomt. ON gas we" d 9ND organ "ta. evaQ."Iuod *=wig"
so. 1, bm appromehoo with ~           abosses.  less prevented to as so         ssue Wm  t    aligned WWI W  mok mg"iom
frm go"romet ore": the fowguftf GM 04011 wagutw. at &as It" twesCe. aft.no PAUD he" mado to nesumst,
do ittletess and. eights limits. to -          tft  fgftn"  W  CWA  sets.  ft""NOLOW. O"k dUb On  igttt MMtt"t is
I ?*foots* eta glw 6614 to wastles to id"*ao tha ttopo"t"ly 4a eta seemim d Its onvoliew son. Is the
7.71041 these dots, tft following "Olitioetswa ebmid w tooe im 01064
(1) 'Uu"ttoo' M doggftd to CM 98MG Ube&*6a all agentile Md CT61404. bpt% IMNI at NM-fff=l.
(2) -priarv- sibecoletow nion " esmos$$de at tbo ftcat kt"t. and -aftoodart- simses" taftes to all 4dumetes
ot the "Chaddly LO"s reprat et CT" (a.$.. caftfst. totftiwa. offiftigerea).
(3) 'Literacy rates' (get. 6) ag. Sim olm"ow Ins comegy Composed. to MM ematvtto amp ass omit
awasiclogloom ad it Lo dftktel tftt ml wittecto dellettim td 'Itteram- bm &M felt~ goototeftly.
(61 'Publi-9 *s"awlitere to oeo"tgm' (sels. 4 ad S) rotate to all mplest oW isairen mpnelftm dswftod to
oftc$9198 IV Publit so                     aftut".
0I 'garatimst fact", ("Lo. 7. at sod 14) feint to "ftel "of go an the veremaw d eligible colloftib
enroll" t.11-time in ghs ppowel"age, moment, ftblic aN otiMe VI Weal. ftA" an wtoo ftbl"t to a wide
ftfsto of arvar to ght ""L"sm evacrta anta to .8fietieft Lo the eentom d bass date (I.e..
440'604*4114 0"*Lottft mad datellsomes). tarettem ftimim fnmvoMlv an 111fiftf 9640 alA Member Of
at-de*&$ "t"ltr is oeb"l.                     stdons SW  to togis"    is moss flow"  old so  ineLgu  can fact".



KINSDON OF NDROCCO
RURAL PRIARY EDUCATION PROJECT
INPLEHENTATION SCHEDULE - CIYIL WORKS
1    1988         1999          19           1991          1992        I13            1994         195 :
Civil Works       Bank    Responsible    ----------    ---------------------   -------    --------
Reviev   Authority  I/   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  41
1 1. Sites Acquisition               PDC oeau.uu                       a-sIUs3uuuuuasu t              z           I
12. Sites Survey                    PTS       1   mauuU  uISUu                        au amuassamuasIusuaa
3. Soil Tests                 Contractors/  *  .a,u=zuu= ==:=m =u=Iumu=as                           sz=:a..:umai            - a          - _
a   -      -               -         ImOE     a                          I a                                                                  
1 4. Site Dev't Plans     *          HOE               =us===   ==.:=z.= ==.=                    =:=I==css===a
15.DBid fDcuments      -             HOE      1             I                                       1 a                                      a
6. Bid Advertisement                N HOE    I          =               I                                                     a
7. Bidding                         HOE                                                                                       i                          a
S. Bid Evaluation        *         HOE                     =                         1            a             I
9. Contract Signing                 HOE                                                            aa
110. Construction               Contractors  I              1        ==u:   u. uauz:uu    a:Ium              a1ua=uuaDu                      a            a
Ill. Liability                  Contractors  :                                                                           z      =  lmat=z"===  = tD=
-------------------------------------------------------                                                                         ------------------              -
Closing Date: December 31, 1995
I/ POCi Provincial Delegation Coumission
PTS Provincial Technical Staff



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - FURNITURE, EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
tr:
1    1989           1999           199           1991           192            1993           1994          1995      1    N
1Furniture, Equipment Bank  Responsible I -------- - -------    ---------- ---------- ------                                                      ----       _            I -t-
I     and Materials        Revie    AutbArity 111 1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4
I                                      I      ~      ~       ~     ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~ I  I  I  :  I  :  :  :
1. Prelisinary Lists        I          MOE                                                                   a                                    - I
:                       :              :              :             :              I~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  I  :  I
2. Final Lists I Specs   *             MOE        I                                                          I I                           I
I~~                                           ~ ~           ~ ~            ~ ~            ~ ~            ~ ~           ~ ~            ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ I  a  I  :   I  :  :  : 
3. Did Documents                       H MOE                *-                                I
14. Advertisement                        " OE
5. Bidding                             NOE        I                                                                         I
*                                                   t              *             I              I              *              a                            :              : a;
16. Bid Evaluation                       N nOE      :                            1 I
7. Contract Signing                    MOE                      I              1 I1                                                       I              t
B. Manuf ing & Deliv y             Contractors                                                               I *--- -   I                 a              a I
19. Distrib. & Instai.                   MOE        I              1             I              I I                           I             I t                           a
10. Liability                       Contractors                  I                                                                                        a= aIz
I    i ngDte    eeaea1a1a
Closing Date: December 31, 1995



63  -
SCHEDULE 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
BURAL PRINRY  WDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE INPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Component            CY  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995  Total
I - SPECIALIST SERVICES (staff-sonths)
IMPROVED PARTICIPATION
School Cooperative                   3      3                                             6
Promotional Campaigns               6       6                                            12
Local Initiatives                           6       6      6       6                     24
IMPROVID QUALITY
Curriculum Development               2      8       8      6       6       6             36
Standardized Achievement
Testing                          2      12      12      6       4                     36
Teacher Recruitment                  6      2       2      2                             12
Teacher Training Programs            2      8       8      6                             24
Multigrade Teaching                  2      8       8      6                             24
School Management                           6       6                                    12
School Health Management                    3       3                                     6
Feasibility Study on
Provision of Eyeglasses          6                                                     6
PLANNING, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
School Location Planning           24      36      36     12                            108
Evaluation                         24      24      24      8       8       8             96
TOTAL
77    122    113      52      24      14      0    402
II - FELLOWSHIPS (staff-months) Fellouships (staff-months)
IMPROVED QUALITY
Curriculum Development               6     16      16     16       8       6      4      72
Standardized Achievement
Testing                          6      16      16     16       6                    60
Multigrade Teaching                  2      2                                             4
School Managenent                   6      16      16      8       4                     60
School Health                               2       3                                     5
PLANNING, MONITORING IND EVALUATION
School Location Planning            12     24      16                                    52
Evaluation                         24      24      24      8       8       8             96
TOTAL                                  56    100      91      48     26      14       4    349



- 64 -
SCHEDnLE 4
KINGDOM OF HOROCCO
RORAL PRINARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIhATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEhENTS
(US5 Hillion)
Disbursesent      Disbursement Profile
IBRD Fiscal Year           ------------------  ---------------------
and Semester               Semester Cumulative    This          Country
Project      Average
1990
Ist (Jul. 89-Dec. 89)       6.00       6.00        7I
2nd (Jan. 90-Jun. 90)       2.00 1/   8.00          10X         1S
1991
1st (Jul. 90-Dec. 90)       4.00      12.00        14S
2nd (Jan. 91-Jun. 91)       7.00      19.00        23X          72
1992
1st (Jul. 91-Dec. 91)    13.00        32.00        392
2nd (Jan. 92-Jun. 92)    10.00        42.00        51S        20S
1993
1st (Jul. 92-Dec. 92)       5.00      47.00        57S
2nd (Jan. 93-Jun. 93)    10.00        57.00        69X         39S
1994
1st (Jul. 93-Dec. 93)       6.50      63.50        77S
2nd (Jan. 94-Jun. 94)       6.50      70.00        842        692
1995
1st (Jul. 94-Dec. 94)       6.00      76.00        922
2nd (Jan. 95-Jun. 95)       5.00      81.00        982        922
1996
1st (Jul. 95-Dec. 95)       2.00      83.00       1002       1002
2nd (Jan. 95-Jun. 95)          --         --       --
Closing Date: December 31, 1995
1/ Special Account



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Ministry of Education
Minister
Cabne                    ]           |      eneral
Secretary Generl
for Primary &
Secondary Levels
ivisionof Dorment of                 Department of      Department   |      Department         Departmento                                     f
Examinatons            rsonnel        Administraton      School Planning        ucwantn       | Educay                 P a
DMaon ofe          Primary Level                          Special Studies    Special Studies       Meth ods
AffaIrlmmne                                                                                    Exarmnation        Examination
Dioviso ofSeodr
Sc hoo Hdent            LeOvl           Maintenance       School Mappi3g        Inspecion          Supervision        Supervision
PreventionPesnl
Division Of
Documentation         Pensions         Sodial Affairs       Guidanre            Monitoring         Division ofDisonf
A Equivalences                                               Services    |         Control        Sta| f Training    Stal| Training
Teadwc  Training     Dscpine &       |       utrgEducation                                           School              School
Insmtituons         Appeals          [        J            Statistics                           Managemenrt        Management
School
Constructon                           Socil AaI            Technical
& Procurement                                               Education
I                                                                           -~da 
Provincial
Delegations
Provisional  - Chart  under  revision                                      |       49)                                                          Wh430k



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Public Health
General    |      |   Minister of
Inspectorate           Public             ~              e
Sanitmion~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~atoa Hat
Diseases&            rot MCHl
Centers                   Techak x( Ahaaus Ade  rmev
Dni Central
sanitation
[Epkeok                                kfsr-tr                                                   Generalenl   | r
_Communiu=e  -ShooiHat              - Planning            _ Eqomf         -     iudpet         -Lea
_ P~~~~~Halth            i      - Research            - Dr ug       -      Accountn      _        Proesoa
Diseases        -F"mly Planning   - Training of          - Maintenance     -Prewnnei          - Rerief & Welfare
Ba ital             Nuiton                                                      Pnrncre
Diseases          & MCH
-Viral Diseases   -Rehabiatafon
Provisional - (Chart under revision)



14'  i2'                               110                                     3'                                      6                                       4'                                      2'             IBRD 21270
IOUlO     AN.
MOROCCO                                                                                                                                                                       HEF HAOUEN
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                SIol-E
-34'                                MOE Pronindal Delegallons                                                                                                                                                 K.
A                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 4*-
-    Main Roads                                                                                                                                 AE                                                                                  l
Secondary Roads                                                                                                                   Te                                                                Af
----  Tracks                                                                                       El Fido  CASAN
*      Airport.                                                                                             Ms k
.J.     Ports                                                                                              E -       A     D     j Merm1                 /t                              4     )     >         4        
*       Notonarl Capital
r      Pronince Capitals
-32                                 Selected To-ns ond Villages
-  - -    Inbnterlionol Boundrles                                                                 SAFI
-   -      int tInmollnal Biondary (Approin.ate)
ESSAOUIRA                         A                     \                                       /                        lod 
A    I/                                                                                                                                                 E
-3E3~~~~~                                                                                      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ aGRAO NTED
30  ' 7-                                                                   iaR''             .;1                                                                                      30
ALGERIA
T12NIIg                                   E `:sA                      R) O Xs h
0    25   50   75  100  125  i50
_g                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS 
_-GUEUMIME ~   ~       ~                                                          ___________________
CANARY
/SiAVA/DS
-28'[Spcsn)                                                                                                                                I
' 4                                      12-                                            0                                          8'                                         6'                                          4'                                         2'
DECEMBER 1988



