Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16538
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3026-MOR)
May 23, 1997
Human Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Moroccan Dirham (DH)
1989  US$1 = DH8.49
1990  US$1 = DH8.24
1991  UJS$I = DH8.70
1992  US$1 = D) 18.54
1993  US$1 = D119.30
1994  US$I = D119.20
1995  US$1 = DI8.54
1996  US$1 = DH18.75
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        African Development Bank
BAJ        Barnamaj Al Aoulaouaiyat Al Ijtmaiya (Social Priorities Program)
DPPCEF   Direction du Pr6scolaire et du Premier Cycle de l'Enseignement Fondamental
DSPP       Direction des Statistiques de la Prospective et de la Programmation
ESRP       Education Sector Reform Program
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MOE        Ministry of Education
MOI        Ministry of Interior
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
UNESCO  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
Vice President        :    Mr. Kemal DervviM
Director              :    Mr. Daniel Ritchie
Sector Director       :    Mr. Jacques Baudouy
Responsible Staff     :    Mrs. Dung-Kim Pham                 __        -



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3026-MOR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation    Sum m ary    ....................................................  ...................i
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
A. Evaluation of Project Objectives                                                 1
B. Achievement of Objectives                            .2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                      .4
D. Project Sustainability                            .5
E. Bank's Performance                                                               6
F. Borrower's Performance                                                           7
G. Assessment of Outcome                               .8
H. Future Operation                                .9
I. Key Lessons Learned                               .9
PART I - STATISTICAL TABLES.                         ........................... 1
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .17
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project.                                             19
Table 8A: Project Costs ...........................................               21
Table 8B: Project Financing ...........................................           21
Table  9:  Status  of Legal Covenants                 ........................................... 22
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................... 22
Table  1 1:   Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs           ........................................... 23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions ........................................... 24
PART IH - BORROWER'S REPORT ..............................................            25
ANNEX 1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3026-MOR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural
Primary Education Project in the "ingdom of Morocco. The Loan in the amount of
US$83.0 million equivalent was approved by the Board on March 14, 1989, and made
effective on November 1, 1989.
The loan closed on December 31, 1996, following a one-year extension
from its original closing date of December 31, 1995. The loan amount was reduced to
US$75.0 million on April 29, 1996. The last disbursement took place on May 23, 1997.
The African Development Bank (ADB) provided parallel co-financing of
US$40.0 million.
The ICR was prepared by Dung-Kim Pham of the Human Development
Group, Middle East and North Africa Region (MNSHD), and reviewed by Jacques
Baudouy, Manager, MNSHD, and Rend Costa, Project Advisor, MN 1.
The Bank's report has been sent to the Government and the ADB for
comments.
Preparation of this ICR is based on material in the project file, interviews
with task managers who appraised and supervised the project and a visit to the field in
December 1996. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing an
evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3026-MOR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The Rural Primary Education Project (Loan 3026-MOR) was approved by the
Board on March 14, 1989. The Project was the result of a shift in the Bank's strategy
toward supporting individual subsectors through specific investment operations, with
priority for basic education. In 1987 developments in higher education led to deviations
from a previously agreed reform program and the Bank withdrew its support to the
second phase of that program. The first phase had been supported by the Bank through
the Education Sector Reform Program (ESRP) Loan (1986). This Project as well as the
Rural Basic Education Project (1991) continue to address the needs of basic education
development.
Project Objectives and Design
As presented in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the objectives of the Project
were:
(a) to increase access to primary schooling in rural areas,
(b) to increase rural primary education participation, particularly for girls;
(c) to improve the quality of primary education;
(d) to strengthen planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity; and
(e) to strengthen the efficient and rational use of resources in primary education.
These objectives were consistent with the Govemment's general policy to develop
basic education in rural areas and its specific purposes: (a) to guarantee universal access to
the first cycle of basic education; (b) to improve school participation, and the quality and
effectiveness of the education system; and (c) to ensure better allocation of the resources
assigned to basic education.
The project was one of the first in the generation of projects which integrated a
mix of inputs to address demand for education. Rather than provide the traditional
financing for school construction, pre-service teacher training and curriculum



ii
development, it provided a combination of inputs geared towards increasing education
quality with the aim of stimulating demand for schooling. These included educational
materials, in-service teacher training, programs to train school directors and introduction
of health topics in the primary school curricula.
Implementation Experience and Results
(a) The project contributed to positive developments in the physical objectives of
the Government's education policy. Through large scale school construction, enrollment
of boys and girls increased substantially in rural areas. Despite difficulties at the macro
level (droughts accelerated migration and reduced living standards), rural enrollments
increased by 35% between 1989 and 1995. During the same period, girls' participation
increased by 65%.
(b) The project failed to reach its development objectives. The technical assistance
program to address the quality of education was not fully implemented due to a budget
reduction and a significant delay in execution. The MOE was less committed to quality
objectives than to physical expansion. In addition, the capacity of the MOE to manage
and integrate the large TA component was overestimated. Supervision, however, was not
pro-active in following the qualitative aspects of the project in order to remedy the
situation in a timely manner.
Assessment of Outcome
The overall outcome is unsatisfactory. Although schools were built and enrollment
increased, community acceptance of the types of school built was mixed, and most of the
activities directed at improving the quality of education were only functioning on a pilot
basis. The overall unsatisfactory results of the project were mitigated to an extent by such
activities as: (i) the development and documentation of new curricula, and (ii) the
establishment of a computerized statistics unit staffed with computer literate personnel;
both of which constitute a foundation for subsequent developments.
Key Lessons Learned
The following lessons can be drawn from the Project:
(a) Expectations of the development impact of social sector projects should be
moderated. Meaningful development results can be slow to appear. Consequently,
project design should anticipate a sustained effort over a long period of time. Moderate
expectations for goals and for the speed of the change process are appropriate. Each
project can build on the experience and developments of previous projects; together, these
projects can work towards producing a meaningful impact over a long period of time.
(b) The importance of having relevant but practical performance indicators. In
addition to output indicators (e.g. enrollments), a project should include outcome and



iii
development impact indicators (e.g. learning achievement, drop-out and promotion rates,
budgetary allocation) which allow progress toward project objectives to be measured
during the life of the project.
(c) Integration  of institution  building  elements  in  project design  and
implementation. Institutional capacity strengthening is generally a lengthy process and its
implementation usually lags behind that of a project's physical components. It is therefore
important to identify which areas of an institution need to be strengthened or expanded.
Desired outcomes should be clearly defined and the steps for attaining these outcomes
detailed prior to project start. They should be factored into a stringent timetable together
with the physical components. Progress of activities must then be closely monitored so
that any deviations will lead to corrective actions.
(d) Ancillary issues are important factors to be considered in project design.
Factors affecting social development are varied and intricate. Issues ancillary to a project's
goal or processes may indirectly exert a significant influence over its outcome and should
be taken into account in design. These issues include factors such as local participation in
policy formulation, socio-economic factors inherent in the cultural environment, religious
influences and climatic influence on a country's economy and educational system.
(e) Methods of construction.  Construction under the Project relied on pre-
fabricated materials. This method should be avoided in the future. The materials did not
adequately meet the needs of users, and because communities were opposed to their use,
community involvement in the education process was lukewarm.
(f) The importance of mid-term reviews. Reviews allow staff to evaluate progress,
to put in place corrective actions for identified problems, to reassess the project's scope
and adjust its design to meet changing objectives, and to develop plans for the remaining
project period.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3026-MOR)
PART I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Evaluation of Project Objectives
1.   In 1985 the Government embarked on an ambitious program to reform its
educational system. Its objectives were to provide more equitable access to children while
improving quality and keeping costs down. In order to achieve savings in teaching and
administrative staff the primary and secondary cycles, 5 and 7 years respectively, were
replaced by 9 years of basic education followed by 3 years of secondary education. Basic
education was divided into 6 years for the first cycle and 3 years for the second cycle.
Another important measure was the promotion of basic schooling in rural areas, with
particular attention to girls' enrollments.
2.    The project was designed to support the Government's reform program, in
particular its primary education program (PEP). As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) the objectives of the Project were to: (i) increase access to primary schooling in
rural areas; (ii) increase rural primary education participation, particularly for girls; (iii)
improve the quality of primary education; (iv) strengthen planning, monitoring and
evaluation capacity; and (v) strengthen the efficient and rational use of resources in
primary education.
3.    With its objectives covering all aspects of the PEP, the project was ambitious. The
PEP contains a number of important and politically sensitive policy reforms affecting
teachers' employment, remuneration structure and career advancement.
4.    The project consisted of the following four components:
(a) Increase access and improve facilities through: construction, furnishing and
equipment of 11,600 classrooms, 1,400 canteens, 2,900 staff houses, 1,500 school
administrators' offices, 120 wells and 120 sanitary facilities and staff houses and
offices for school administrators; and through local community participation in the
construction and maintenance of primary school facilities.
(b) Increase participation, particularly of girls, through: a major textbook program
organized with school cooperatives; promotional campaigns to emphasize the



2
benefits of female education; and support of local initiatives to increase girls'
enrollments and attendance.
(c) Improve the quality of education through: development of new curricula and
standardized achievement testing; strengthening multi-grade teaching; improving
recruitment of teachers for rural areas; strengthening pre-service and in-service
teacher training and school management; and improving school health awareness.
(d) Strengthening educational planning, monitoring and evaluation capacities.
B. Achievement of Objectives
Increase access to primary schooling in rural areas and increase girls' participation.
5.    Despite droughts which caused migration to accelerate and living standards to fall
in the early 1990s, the project contributed significantly towards increasing access to
schooling and increasing girls' participation. After a sharp decline from 1984-85 to 1989-
90, enrollments (girls and boys) increased, growing at an average annual rate of 6.2%
from 1990-91 to 1995-96 (see Annex 1). In rural areas enrollments increased by 35%
between 1989 and 1995, against 38% expected at project appraisal. During the same
period girls' enrollment increased by 65% against 75% anticipated at project appraisal.
Improve the quality of primary education and strengthen planning. monitoring and
evaluation capacities.
6.    The impact of this component fell short of expectations due to initial design flaws
and implementation delays. Due mainly to two factors, most activities under the
component had to be redefined after project effectiveness.  First, the MOE has
traditionally been less committed to these types of objectives than to capacity expansion.
Second, and just as importantly, the scope of the redefinition suggests that the MOE's
capacity to absorb and integrate the huge TA component originally planned was
overestimated. As a result, this component has run behind schedule. By the project
completion date most activities had been implemented only on a pilot level.
7.    Initially, the technical assistance program  supporting these objectives was
ambitious. After long debate, as a result of which costs were reduced to US$2.5 million
from US$4.0 million, the Ministry of Education (MOE) contracted the work to UNESCO
in June 1993. UNESCO, as the executing agency, contracted with national and
international specialists to provide the technical assistance. The majority of international
specialists were from Laval University of Quebec. Work under the Government-UNESCO
convention covers two areas. The first, under the Direction du Prescolaire et du Premier
Cycle de l'Enseignement Fondamental (DPPCEF), dealt with the quality of education.
This area of activities encompasses: (i) preparation and development of new curricula and materials for
all levels of the first cycle of basic education, as well as multi-level classes, (ii) introduction of health



3
The second, under the Direction des Statistiques, de la Prospective et de la
Programmation (DSPP), dealt with planning and evaluation capacities.
8.    To reach the pedagogical goals, four phases were planned under the leadership of
the DPPCEF: (i) diagnosis of the situation, (ii) management training, (iii) production of
fourteen manuals, and (iv) practical use of the manuals. All these activities took place,
though on a limited scale due to the budget reduction: pre- and in-service teacher training
and training programs for school directors were cut down and preparation of new
curricula did not cover all levels of the first cycle. Furthermore, one of the critical goals,
to develop practical guidelines for inspectors, school principals and teachers on the basis
of the theoretical manuals has just started; the process will probably not be completed
before the beginning of the next school year.
9.    School health and hygiene topics - activities intended to improve the quality of
education - were not integrated with the overall national program on school health. The
two-week study tours undertaken by a few doctors did not and could not achieve this
goal. Computerization of school and workplace accident files included production of a
program which has yet to be used due to lack of training of staff in the software. Finally,
the feasibility study on the production and use of prescription glasses was limited to the
listing of needs and did not make any recommendations, concerning whether the
implementation of a production unit is necessary or feasible.
10.   Activities to reinforce planning. monitoring, and evaluation capacity were
undertaken under the leadership of the DSPP. While these activities were satisfactorily
implemented on a pilot basis a generalization has yet to occur. A unit to computerize
statistical data was created and equipped and its staff trained in computer skills. A pilot
operation to introduce new techniques in data collection, and to familiarize staff with the
new system, has been conducted in the Temara region. Generalization of the pilot's
conclusions should take place prior to the 1997 school year and thus provide a reliable
base for school mapping. Staff involved in activities regarding evaluation and analysis of
learning have been trained in educational research techniques and in operationalizing
research findings.
11.   Studies were undertaken on learning achievement of students in the second and
fifth years of the first cycle of basic education, and on promotion procedures from the first
to the second cycle of basic education. Findings from these studies have not yet been
completely exploited. The preliminary lessons, including the need to establish programs to
raise learning achievements among low-income groups in rural areas, will be useful for
improving the quality of future pedagogical programs.
and school hygiene elements into these programs, (iii) teacher training, (iv) administrative training
for school principals, and (v) formative evaluation.



4
Strengthen the efficient and rational use of resources in primary education.
12.   Although this objective was part of the project's overall strategy, there were no
specific actions or conditionalities to address the issue. An important study on the
rationalization and effective use of resources was supposedly completed by the
Government by September 1989. While discussions of this area must have played an
important part in the dialogue between the Bank and Government, the project files do not
contain any correspondence pertaining to this matter.
13.   An analysis of public budget allocations and expenditures for education undertaken
in the course of preparing this ICR reveal that there is a consistent bias in favor of post-
primary and higher education. Over the years, the first cycle of basic education has
received a disproportionately low share of resources, relative to its high share in total
enrollments. In 1995 the first cycle of basic education received 30.9% of the education
budget, while accounting for 65% of total enrollments. The second cycle of basic
education and secondary education received 51.2% of the education budget, with 29% of
enrollments; and higher education received 17.9% share with 6% of enrollments. Of
operating expenditures in basic education, relatively little was spent on items for
improving the quality of education. While there has been a slight improvement from 1989
to 1995, as much as 96% of funds were spent on salaries.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Delays in implementing the technical assistance program.
14.   The cost of the technical assistance program was debated over three and a half
years before it was reduced to US$2.5 million from US$4.0 million. The reduction in the
budget allocated to the program and the pressure of time to implement the program
prevented a comprehensive revision of its scope. The activities implemented thus lacked
synergy. For example, at project appraisal, activities aimed at improving the quality of
education were designed so that new curricula would be developed and guides designed to
form the basis for preparation of instructional materials. Inspectors, directors and teachers
would be trained in the new techniques and materials. Due to budgetary reductions and
time constraints, development of new curricula was limited to a few primary grades, the
manuals produced remained too theoretical, and the training activities were postponed.
Decentralization of the construction program.
15.   Decentralization of responsibility for the construction program to the communes,
which was decided upon in 1989, was not supported by a clear division of responsibilities
between MOE and the Ministry of Interior (MOI) nor an agreement on budgetary
allocations. The financing mechanism called for the communes, under MOI supervision,
to retain a portion of value added taxes, however MOI requested a substantially larger
percentage of the tax than originally planned. The MOE played a passive role in the
construction program and lost control over the pace of implementation. The MOE
authorities had difficulties in planning new student registration and performing technical
control of the construction, since neither the exact location nor the level of completion of



5
the new premnises were known. In addition, disbursement procedures were not revised to
reflect decentralization. Use of the loan proceeds for construction slowed down due to
delays and failures to submit and process receipts for work completed, from  the
communes through MOI to MOE. Receipts were needed to enable MOE to apply for
disbursements from the Bank. Communes, which had already received funds for their
schools, had no incentive to send the paperwork.
Failure to monitor the effectiveness of activities designed to increase girls' participation.
16.   Activities designed to increase girls' participation - the textbook loan program,
awareness campaigns, support to local initiatives - were not monitored closely to assess
impact. In the textbook loan program, books were to be lent at low cost with a cost
recovery system to allow school cooperatives to maintain adequate textbook supplies. It
was never put in place. In 1993, feasibility of the program was questioned, but remedial
solutions were not proposed. Awareness campaigns were organized, and seemed to have
had a positive impact on girls' enrollments. The campaigns, which took place at the
beginning of the school year or whenever a new school was about to open, had an initial
impact but lost their effects during the school year. Their impact was fleeting as girls
attendance was not sustained and drop-out rates were high. Investments to support
specific initiatives requested by the communities were not undertaken.
D. Project Sustainability
17.   In response to the urgent need to expand educational facilities to increase access to
schooling for a fast growing population during the beginning of the 1990s, prefabricated
materials were used. However, this method both failed to satisfy user demands and was
prone to technical problems such as sagging ceilings, falling panels and a lack of thermal
insulation. Most importantly, the communities were not in favor of the prefabricated
schools. They considered the schools to be of low quality compared to schools built under
the traditional method in urban areas. Thus, the strategy of increasing access to schooling
using prefabricated construction materials has been abandoned as unsustainable.
18.   Although the objectives regarding the quality of education and the institutional
strengthening were not met during the implementation cycle of the project, achievement is
feasible in the long-term. Investments undertaken by the project served as a valuable
source of information and the Bank's on-going operation, BAJI - Education, is using
these as a foundation for developing its program of activities. Many of the envisioned
activities aimed at improving education quality which were not implemented or were
limited in their scope - such as school management, teaching materials for multigrade
teaching, pre-service and in-service training, distribution of textbooks and support to
innovative initiatives to promote schooling - were assumed by BAJI - Education. The
potential for sustainability is enhanced by the fact that BAJI - Education was developed
using participatory and socio-economic integrated approaches.



6
E. The Bank's Performance
19.   The project was formulated in 1988 and was consistent with Government priorities
and developments in the Bank assistance strategy. Originally, Bank assistance in the
sector was designed as a series of sector adjustment operations, as demonstrated by the
Education Sector Reform Loan (ESRL) (1986). However, developments in higher
education which resulted in deviations from the reform program led the Bank to withdraw
its support of the second phase of the ESRL. Instead, the Bank shifted its support to
individual subsectors through specific investment operations. This project was designed
to address the needs of expanding and improving primary education.
20.   Collaboration between the Bank and the Government from preparation to appraisal
and negotiations was good. However, there was a lack of coordination with the African
Development Bank (ADB), even though ADB provided parallel financing of 29% of total
Project cost (US$40.0 million).  But overall, Bank performance at this stage was
satisfactory.
21.   Project preparation. There were strong and weak points in the project's design.
On the one hand, the project was innovative in that it integrated a mix of inputs -
including educational materials, in-service teacher training, training for school directors
and introduction of health topics in curricula - to increase quality with the aim of
stimulating demand for schooling. It did not embrace the traditional project supply
oriented scope of simply financing school construction, pre-service teacher training and
curriculum development.
22.   On the other hand, project design suffered from insufficient knowledge of issues
affecting basic education. An understanding of effective determinants of demand for basic
education, especially in poor rural areas and for girls, was incomplete. In addition, no
evaluation of costs, financing and policies in the education system was performed. These
issues were only analyzed in two studies conducted in 1993 and 1994, respectively, late in
the life of the project. Because of this knowledge deficiency, many activities included in
the project did not fit into a coherent framework, making implementation and monitoring
more difficult. During the early stage of project preparation, the Bank's management
expressed concern about the lack of certainty as to demand determinants. It recommended
that implementation of proposed activities aimed at increasing access, girls' participation,
and the quality of education should be considered experimental, and that the project
include evaluation mechanisms to measure their impact. However, aside from a few
indicators on physical aspects and enrollments, the SAR does not contain any indicators
which allow an assessment of the activities' impact. In addition, project design did not
have a component to address the objective of strengthening the efficiency and rational use
of resources in primary education. It was also never adapted to take account for the
consequences of the decentralization of school construction occurring in 1989-90.
Overall, the Bank's performance during preparation was mixed.



7
23.   Project supervision was not pro-active in following up on the pedagogical aspects
of the project and was therefore not effective. Supervision was limited to monitoring
physical achievements, deadlines and disbursements without paying much attention to the
qualitative components. There was no continuity of task management. The task manager
who prepared, evaluated and negotiated the project transferred out of the division
responsible for project implementation. Between 1990 and 1996, six task managers were
responsible for supervision.   The ten supervision missions undertaken for the
implementation cycle of seven years could be considered adequate if they were solely
devoted to the activities of the project. However, they were combined with missions for
the preparation and evaluation of other projects. In such circumstances, projects under
supervision will not usually receive the required staff attention. This one did not.
24.   Findings in supervision reports were inconsistent and Form-590s were not
completed accurately and comprehensively. Issues raised in a number of reports were not
mentioned in subsequent reports, and were deferred to another project without any
concrete follow-up. As such, it was difficult to assess whether issues had been solved or
simply ignored by task managers.
25.   Although a mid-term review was not planned at the project conception, it was
recommended during one supervision mission. It never took place. A mid-term review
would have been beneficial by requiring the supervision team to review the qualitative
objectives of the project, taking into account the delayed initiation and revised scope of
the UNESCO managed technical assistance program. Such a review could have led
eventually to rectification and improvement of certain points of the program. Overall, the
Bank's performance during supervision was unsatisfactory.
F. Borrower's Performance
26.   During the preparation stage, the Borrower worked closely with the Bank and
provided insight in the design of the project. The Borrower's input was crucial in making
this project one of the first in the generation of projects which integrates a mix of inputs to
address demand factors in education.
27.   During implementation, the Borrower's performance was not fully satisfactory.
This is consistent with the circumstances which led the Bank to shift its support from the
ESRL - Phase II to the primary subsector which was the focus of the project. The same
lack of Government commitment to carry out its policies under the ESRL was manifest in
the PEP, from which the project drew its design.
28.   Implementation also suffered from a rigid administrative structure. Although the
terms of reference and cost of the technical assistance program were discussed and agreed,
they were debated for over three years within the Government before a convention with
UNESCO was signed at a reduced cost. This delay affected achievement of project
objectives significantly. Once the convention was signed, initiation of the work was
further delayed due to structural administrative changes and changes in objectives.



8
29.   The lack of information exchange between the sections within the MOE dealing
with the quality of education and pedagogical subjects prevented those sections from
sharing the benefits of project work and from capitalizing on the results achieved. Thus,
while the DSPP and the DPPCEF were heavily involved in quality and pedagogical
subjects of the program, the section responsible for training educational staff was omitted
from the information loop. This section could have contributed technically and might have
been able to share experiences drawn from its daily practical applications. A new
functional structure is proposed in the MOE, and it is hoped that this will enhance the
complementarity of work between the different sections.
30.   The government's financing  procedures are cumbersome. The lack  of
accountability of Ministries - MOE, MOF and MOI - slowed down disbursements,
particularly when the classroom construction program was decentralized to the community
level. The government is now reviewing the results of a study which identified the
bottlenecks and sources of delays in the local financing procedures and will devise an
action plan.
G. Assessment of Outcome
31.   The outcome of the physical objectives of the Project was favorable. Despite
droughts which caused migration to accelerate and living standards to fall in rural areas,
rural enrollments increased by 35% between 1989 and 1995. During the same period,
girls' participation increased by 65%.
32.   Results attained in regard to development objectives, which aimed at the quality of
education and pedagogical aspects, were unsatisfactory. The technical assistance program
designed to address these objectives did not fully materialize as planned. Due to the
budget reduction and significant delay in execution, the full benefits of the program were
not realized at project closing.
33.   In spite of the overall unsatisfactory rating, it should be noted that some benefits
did accrue from the project. Rural enrollments increased significantly and the technical
assistance program provided a valuable foundation upon which future developments can
take place.
H. Future Operation
34.   Because the current BAJI - Education project addresses similar priorities, it
provides an appropriate framework for the operation of many activities undertaken by the
project. Until the results of BAJI - Education are evaluated, a new project in the
subsector would be premature.



9
I. Key Lessons Learned
35.   The major lessons that can be drawn from the Project are:
(a) Expectations of the development impact of social sector projects should be
moderated. Meaningful development results can be slow to appear. Consequently,
project design should anticipate a sustained effort over a long period of time. Moderate
expectations for goals and for the speed of the change process are appropriate. Each
project can build on the experience and developments of previous projects; together, these
projects can work towards producing a meaningful impact over a long period of time.
(b) The importance of having relevant but practical performance indicators. In
addition to output indicators (e.g. enrollments), a project should include outcome and
development impact indicators (e.g. learning achievement, drop-out and promotion rates,
financial performance) which allow progress toward project objectives to be measured
during the life of the project.
(c) Integration of institution building elements in project design and
implementation. Institutional capacity strengthening is generally a lengthy process and its
implementation usually lags behind that of a project's physical components. It is therefore
important to identify which areas of an institution need to be strengthened or expanded.
Desired outcomes should be clearly defined and the steps for attaining these outcomes
detailed prior to project start. They should be factored into a stringent timetable together
with the physical components. Progress of activities must then be closely monitored so
that any deviations will lead to corrective actions.
(d) Ancillary issues are important factors to be considered in project design.
Factors affecting social development are varied and intricate. Issues ancillary to a project's
goal or processes may indirectly exert a significant influence over its outcome and should
be taken into account in design. These issues include factors such as local participation in
policy formulation, socio-economic factors inherent in the cultural environment, religious
influences and climatic influence on a country's economy and educational system.
(e) Methods of construction.  Construction under the Project relied on pre-
fabricated materials. This method should be avoided in the future. The materials did not
adequately meet the needs of users, and because communities were opposed to their use,
community involvement in the education process was lukewarm.
(f) The importance of mid-term reviews. Reviews allow staff to evaluate progress,
to put in place corrective actions for identified problems, to reassess the project's scope
and adjust its design to meet changing objectives, and to develop plans for the remaining
project period.



10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3026-MOR)
PART II
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 11:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Missions



11
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial    Partial Negligible     Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                 X
Sector policies                                            X
Financial objectives                                                           X
Institutional Development                                  X
Physical objectives                  X
Poverty reduction                                                              X
Gender issues                                       X
Other social objectives                                    X
Environmental objectives                                                       X
Public sector management                                                       X
Private sector development                                                     X
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainabilitv             Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                  Highly          Satisfactorv   Deficient
satisfactorv
Identification                                      X
Preparation assistance                                     X
Appraisal                                                         X
Supervision                                                       X
D. Borrower Performance               Highly         Satisfactory   Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation                                         X
Implementation                                                    X
Covenant compliance                                 X
Operation (if Lpplicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome              Highly         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactorv   Highly
satisfactory                                 unsat.
x



12
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan Title                         Purpose               |   Year of          Status
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   A pproval
Preceding Operations
1. Education                   Construction and equipment of             1965        Closed 1975
multilateral secondary schools which
provide basic education with
alternative biases (e.g. arts, sciences,
commerce, home economics,
technical, etc.).
2. Second Education             Finance educational research and         1971        Closed 1978
teacher training, through construction
and equipment for a National
Institute of Pedagogy, a Higher
Teacher Training College, Regional
Teacher Training Colleges; scientific
and technical training in secondary
schools.
3. Third Education              Support Morocco's program of             1976        Closed 1983
reforms in the education sector by: (1)
design, construction and equipping of
primary schools, secondary schools,
secondary teacher training college,
hotel training school, hotel training
centers...; (2) detailed preparation
and design of technical colleges,
engineering institutes, and technical
teacher training college and
demonstration school; (3) equipment
for a computerized unit; and (4)
technical assistance to prepare a
national program for technical
education and vocational training,
and develop curricula.



13
4. Fifth Education            Improve teacher effectiveness at the   1982       Closed 1989
primary level; assist the Government
in meeting more effectively the basic
educational needs of rural children,
and improve the quality of science
and mathematics teaching at the
senior secondary level. The project
would finance: (a) the provision of
learning aids for existing primary
schools; (b) the construction and
equipping of rural primary schools
and related technical assistance; and
(c) the development of programs and
of a cadre of qualified staff for
training senior secondary
mathematics and science teachers,
through TA and construction and
equipping of teacher training
institutes.
5. Education Sector Reform    The project would form part of a two-  1986       Closed 1989
year phase of implementation of the
Government's education sector
reform program, with provision to
make education more equitable, more
cost-effective, and more consistent
with the country's medium-term
development needs. The project
would assist the Borrower in
improving: (a) equity of education;
(b) the efficiency of Morocco's
education system; (c) containing the
growth of public expenditures on
education. The project includes
construction, equipping of schools,
teacher training, foreign fellowships
and studies in support of new
educational activities.
6. Rural Basic Education      Promote equality of educational        1991         Ongoing
Development                   opportunity at the middle school level
by improving access and
participation; and enhance the
teaching-learning environment by
contributing to the improvement of
basic education quality, nationwide.



14
Following Operations
7. Social Priorities Program:    Contribute to the Government's             1996          Ongoing
Basic Education                  efforts to boost its educational system
in both qualitative and quantitative
terms and to make its performance
correspond more closely to that in
economically comparable countries.
The project will target the poorest
population in the country; aim to
have an impact on both the supply
and demand for education; and affect
institutions both upstream (Koranic
preschools) and downstream (literacy
education for adults) of the formal
education system. The project will
concentrate on 13 selected provinces
and will increase in the access to and
retention rates of basic schooling;
reduction of the gap between the
school participation rates of boys and
girls; improvement of education
quality; improvement of the
performance of government literacy
programs; and provision of technical
support to the Ministry of National
Education to operationalize and
implement its Sector Action Plan
(which aims to reallocate resources to
priority programs and improve
l _________________________      budgetary  efficiency).



15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned       Date Actual
Identification                                         2/15/88       not available
Preparation                                                               3/28/88
Appraisal                                                 6/88            6/6/88
Negotiations                                                              1/23/89
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                                     l
Board Presentation                                    11/15/88           3/14/89
Signing                                                                  7/21/89
Effectiveness                                                             11/1/89
First tranche release (if applicable)                                        n/a
NMidterm review (if applicable)                                              n/a
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)                           n/a
Project completion                                                       12/31/96
Loan closing                                                             4/30/97



16
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS:
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94  FY95  FY96   FY97
Appraisal Estimate       0.00   8 00   19.00   42.00   57.00   70.00  81.00  83.00
Actual                   0.00   0.00   23.06   25.58   40.36   52.66  55.09  65.65   72.5
Actual as % of estimate  --     -       121%    60%     71%     75%    68%    79%    --
Date of final disburs.                                                                 3/17/97
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators in
SAR/President's Report                  Estimated                   Actual
N/A
Modified indicators
(if applicable)
1. By project completion in 1995, rural               --            Rural enrollments
enrollments are expected to increase by                             increased by 35% with
about 38%, with participation of girls                               participation of girls
increasing by 75%.                                                   increasing by 65%
Other Indicators
(if applicable)
N/A



17
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report                Estimated                Actual
N/A
Modified indicators
(if applicable)
N/A
Modified indicators for future operations
(if applicable)
N/A



18
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined at
Study                     appraisalUredefined                  Status                      Impact of Study
1. Program Development and     - Finalize the revisions to     - Study tours to Canada.        Capacity development in human
Evaluation.                     educational programs for each                                  resources, in analyses of content
subject and level in the primary  - Production of learning     in order to evaluate and develop
cycle.                         matenals.                       study programs.
- Develop norms and procedures   - Translation of learning
in the conception of instruction  materials.
manuals, teaching methods, and
evaluation methods in confornity   - Training Seminars and
with objectives.               workshops in Morocco
- Evaluate revised programs and
proceed with adjustments as
necessary.
2. Formative Evaluations of     - Establish a database on       - Study tours to Canada.        Improvement and development of
Apprentices.                    apprenticeship results from key                                 capacity of teaching personnel in
studies on primary cyle.       - Production of learning        formative evaluations of
materials,                      apprentices.
- Develop norms and procedures
of evaluations of apprentices in  - Translation of learning
confornity with pedagogic      materials.
objectives.                    - Training seminars in Morocco.
Workshops on self-teaching
material following evaluation of
apprenticeship program for
teachers and inspectors.
3. Management of Classes with   - Improve teaching practices at    - Study tours to Canada.     Improvement of the teaching
Multiple Courses.               multiple levels.                                                quality in multiple course
- Production of learning        classrooms in rural areas.
- Train and re-train teachers  materials.
responsible for multiple course
classrooms.                    - Translation of learning
materials.
- Reinforce pedagogic
framework and administration of   - Seminars on Moroccan, French
classrooms with multiple courses.  and Canadian experiences with
regard to CCM.
- Workshops on self-teaching
manuals for teachers regarding
CCM.
4. School Management for        - Validate functions of        - Study tours to Canada.         Development of capacity of
Primary Education.              pedagogical matrix for                                         school directors in animation and
administrative personnel in    - Production of learning        administrative and pedagogical
primary schools,               materials.                      management.
- Decentralize administrative  - Translation of learning
functions in satellite schools.  materials.
- Train and re-train school    - Training seminars in Morocco.
directors in their new
responsibilities.- Workshops on self-teaching
manuals bor directors involved in
pedagogical management and
admninistration of schools.
5. Education Planning.          - Put in place an integrated    I. Sub-component 7.1:          Computerization of activities of
system of school mapping       development of nlannina         the DSPP, training in information
administration.                procedures.                     and administrative systems, and
putting in place a new
- Train personnel and technicians   - Study tours to Canada.   computerized information
in education planning in the                                   system
.______________________ _ . .development and use of a MIS on   - Computerization of the DSPP.



19
educational data.                - Seminars for central and
regional personnel of the DSPP.
- Training tours to the University
of Quebec.
- Training modules in
educational research for central
and regional personnel of the
DSPP.
2. Sub-component 7.2: Studies
on educational careers.
- Studies on functions of the
education system.
- Seminars for the training of   Improvement in the definition of
researchers and controllers.     strategies and political education.
- Study tours to IREDU (Dijon).
6. School Health Services.       - Introduce teaching modules on    - Study tours for 2 doctors to:  Computeri7ation of activities in
hygiene and nutrition in         France, Belgium and              the School Health Division.
education programs at primary    Switzerland.
level.
- Concept and computerization
- Reinforce school health        for the treatment and follow-up of
services in collaboration with the    data on school accidents.
Ministry of Public Health.l
Minis.y of Public Health,        - Prograrn installation at the
- Reinforce management of        DSC.
school health services.
7. Feasibility Study on          - Feasibility study on            Study undertaken by ICONE on    Impact is not yet defined as long
Production and Distribution of   organization and managemnent of   prescription eyeglasses           as operational phase is not in
Prescription Eyeglasses.         distribution system for           production and distribution.      place.
prescription eyeglasses in rural
areas.                           - Non-realization of study phase
for prescription eyeglasses
- Recommend operational          production and distribution
mechanisms for putting in place a   program.
prescription eyeglasses
distribution program.



20
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)                  Actualtlatest estimate (tJSSM)
(include. contingencies)
Item_                      _      _    _      _       _  _      _    __
Local costs    Foreign costs    Total       Local costs*     Foreign         Total
costs*
1. Increased access and improved               771            48.7          125.8                                        138.4
facilities
2. Increased participation                       3.8            5.6           9.4                                           9.0
3. Improved quality                              1.6           4.7             6.3                                          2.5
4. Planning, monitoring and evaluation           0.6            1.9            2.5                                          1.0
Physical contingencies                           5.4            4.0           9.4
Price contingencies                             6.8            4.8            11.6
Total                                                                       165.0                                        150.9
* Broken down between local and foreign costs not available at timc of ICR.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)                  Actual/latest estimate (USSM)
Source
Local costs    Foreign costs    Total       Local costs*     Foreign         Total
costs*
Governnent                                     42.0                          42.0                                         35.9
IBRD                                           36.5           46.5           83.0                                         75.0
ADB                                             16.8          23.2           40.0                                         40.0
* Broken down between local and foreign costs not available at time of ICR.



21
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Orinal         Re_sed
Covenant Type        Present       Fulfi1iment    fulilbment       Description of covenant
Agreement       Section                            Status          date           date                                        Comments
3.03        Implementadon        Complied                                    The Boffower shall ensure that    --
the feasibility study on the
system for provision of
eyeglasses to students be
completed and furnished to the
Bank not later than September
30, 1990.
4.01b      Accounts/Audbt        Compiled      _                             The Borrower shall maintain      1995 audit
records and accounts; furnish to   report
the Bank not later than six     received in
months after each fiscal year,   September
the audit of such report and     1996.
other information concerning
said accounts and the audit as
the Bank shall reasonably
-                               -             - ______________ -             - request.
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number & Title                                Describe & comment on lack of compliance
N/A                                  |                              N/A



22
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned            Revised              Actual
Stage of project cycle
Weeks  US$ '000   Weeks  US$ '000   Weeks   US$ '000
Through appraisal                                                 38.0      47.9
Appraisal - Board                                                 41.7      69.9
Board - Effectiveness                                              7.5      16.5
Supervision             20.5       39.2     19.0       41.6       67.2     163.5
Completion                5.5       8.4      7.0        10.5       2.8       4.3
TOTAL                    26.0      47.6     26.0       52.1      157.2     302.1
** Due to system changes from MIS to COS, Plan and Revised data are not available for
the full project cycle.



23
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Stage of project cycle
MNY     No.    Days in       Sp.ed                                       Types of problems
pemons   field    stdfsilis represted
Implem.   Developo
status    object
Through appraisal                     2/87     4       15
Appraisal through Board approval      6/88     6       15
Board approval through effectiveness  10/88   2        5        TM; Consultant                           Government request to increase
number of school facilities;
reduce scope of wells and
sanitary facilities; and exclude
Adult Literacy component.
Supervision                           10/89    2               TM; Educ. Spec.      I         I          - Bid opening for first school
construction tranche
inconclusive, resulting in a 6-
month delay.
- Change of Minister.
Recommendation by the
commissions on various aspects
of the education system due in
June 89, delayed to September
89 and further delayed to
December 89.
5/91    2                TM; Architect       I          I          -Implementation of TA
component delayed. Scope of
work revised.
- Decentralization of school
construction program to local
communities.
- Sustainability of textbook loan
program questioned.
2/92    3                Sr. Educ. Spec.;    2          2          - Weak project management.
Sr. ImpI. Spec.;,
Operations                                Delay in implementation of TA
Assistant                                component.
- Decentralization of school
construction leads to inadequate
quality control of construction
and delay in Bank's
disbursemnents.



24
2/93    2      1         Princ. Projets      2          2          - Due to decentralization, PIU
Officer, Sr. Imp].                       lost control of construction
Spec.                                    program.
- Contract with UNESCO signed
but work has not stated.
2/94     1               Sr. Educ.           2          2          - Technical quality of
Economist                                construction.
-Delays in payments to
suppliers.
- Weak project accounting of
utilization of loan proceeds
7/94    2                Princ. Projects     S          S          - Decision on the provision of
Officer, Edc. Spec.                      eyeglasses to rural school
children is pending.
3/95    3                Princ. Projects     U          S          - Slow disbursements due to
Officer, Architect;                      MOE's inability to collect
Operations Analyst                       supporting documents for
construction work done.
11/95    3               Princ. Projects     U          S         - ApproximatelyUSS11.0
Officer, Educ.                           million will not be utilized from
Spec.; Operations                       loan.
Analyst
6/96    2                TM; School Equip.   S          S          -Due to the important delay at
Spec.                                    start-up, full benefits deriving
from the activities undertaken
under the UNESCO Convention
cannot be appreciated.
Completion                            12/96    2                TM; Educator       s          U          The prefabricated methods used
in school construcion did not
adequately meet the needs of the
users. There were technical
problems (sagging ceilings,
falling panels, problems with
heating and cooling). Most
importantly, the communities
did not take a proprietary
interest in the prefabricated
schools, considering them as low
quality, compared to schools
built under the traditional
method ("en dur") in urban
areas.
Activities prescribed under the
TA program contracted to
UNESCO took place late during
project implementation. Their
general multiplying effects will
only occur after loan closing nd
therefore, benefits deriving from
them cannot yet he seen.



25
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3026-MOR)
PART m
BORROWER'S REPORT
Project Background
In 1985 the Government launched an educational sector reform program with a
view to providing more equitable and cost-effective educational services suited to the
country's medium-term development needs. Those objectives were to be achieved by inter
alia:
-    Restructuring the 12 years of schooling, both primary (five years) and
secondary (seven years) into nine years of basic education followed by three
years of secondary education;
-    Improving the effectiveness of the educational system in terms of an increase
in enrollment rates and accelerating the progression at which the students go
through the system;
-    Curbing growth in public education spending and allocating a larger
proportion of resources to basic education.
The Ministry of Education (MEN) carried out a project in support of rural primary
education in 1989, cofinanced by the World Bank (IBRD) and the African Development
Bank (AfDB).
Primary Education Support Program
Project Obiectives
-    Expand access to basic education in rural areas by building classrooms and
purchasing related equipment;
-    Raise enrollment rates in rural basic education, especially for girls, by
improving distribution of teaching materials and introducing community-
based measures to encourage families to send their children to school;
-    Raise the quality of teaching in basic education by strengthening educational
program management and trainee teacher evaluation, improving the relevance



26
of teaching material, training of teachers as well as executive and
administrative staff, improving the quality of teaching in multigrade
classrooms, and strengthening the role of school principals;
Strengthen planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity by improving
educational planning services;
Promote a more effective and rational use of resources in basic education.
Project Description
Physical Program
-    Construction, equipment and furnishing of 11,600 new classrooms and 1,400
school cafeterias;
-    Construction and equipment of 2,900 new staff housing units;
-    Furnishing of 1,500 principals' offices;
-    Construction, on an experimental basis, of 120 sanitary units and 120 wells in
new or existing schools equipped with cafeterias.
-    Purchase of 50 vehicles for provincial educational planning and school
construction services to ensure supervision of the construction program.
-    Purchase of textbooks for needy students to be distributed through school
cooperatives.
Technical Assistance
The project included two technical assistance programs. One, financed by the ADB
(700/MOR/10), covered a study on types of school construction. The other, financed by
the IIBRD (7001MOR/13) comprised the following seven components:
* Teaching Components
Component 1:        Development of basic education programs
Component 2:        Evaluation of teacher trainees
Component 3:        Teaching in multigrade classrooms
Component 5:        Training for school principals
* Educational Planning Components
Component 7.1:      Automation of planning procedures



27
Component 7.2:     Research on the factors influencing student achievements
and prospects.
* School Health Components
Component 8:       Upgrading of school health services
Component 10:      Feasibility study on the production and distribution of
corrective lenses
Project Financinz
The total project cost amounting to US$140.0 million equivalent before taxes, was
funded as follows: (a) the IBRD loan for US$83.0 million financed 60% of the total; (b)
the AfDB loan financed US$40.0 million, or 29% of the total; and (c) the Government
financed the remaining 11% of the project cost (US$17 million). The Government also
defrayed US$25.0 million in direct and indirect taxes.
Project Implementation Arrangements
The project was carried out by the existing executing units within the MEN in
charge of each project component. The Preschool and Primary Education Department
(DPPCEF) was responsible for implementing teaching components 1, 2, 4 and 5 of the
technical assistance program, and the School Health Division implemented components 8
and 10.
The Statistics, Planning and Programming Department (DSPP) was in charge of
carrying out both aspects of component 7: computerization of task planning, and the
study on factors influencing student achievements and prospects.
The physical program overall, including teaching equipment and textbooks, was
carried out by the Financed Projects Division (DPF) and the Department of Construction
and Equipment (DCE).
The DCE also executed the technical assistance program financed by the AfDB.
Coordination was handled by the DPF within the Planning Department. After this
unit was dissolved, coordination was taken over in early 1995 by the Construction
Division within the Department of School Construction and Equipment. Beginning in
1996, the Department for Legal Affairs, Cooperation and Communication became
involved in coordinating the technical assistance program.



28
Project Achievements
Summary of Achievements
These relate to achievements under activities financed solely by the IBRD.
Physical Program
The construction program financed by the World Bank was completed within the
original timeframe outlined in the staff appraisal report. The program covered 6,841
classrooms, 1,861 staff housing units and 893 school cafeterias.
All equipment and furniture designated for the classrooms and cafeterias were
purchased, including the teaching and computer equipment. In addition, 1,500 principals'
offices were equipped.
All construction, equipment and furniture contracts awarded under the project were
completed. Cumulative disbursements for the civil engineering and equipment categories
under Loan 3026-MOR were valued at about US$66,207,862 at an exchange rate of
US$1 to DH 8.5. This exceeded the allocated amount due to the underestimation of the
equipment category following the cancellation of US$8.0 million.
Technical Assistance Program
Teaching Components
1. Training
First-level training activities (medium- and long-term courses) took place in Quebec
within the agreed timeframe.
These 'first-level" training courses were followed by supplementary training for a
core group of trainers who were subsequently called the "strategic group".
The supplementary training were of two types:
-    co-training among the members of the strategic group;
-    supervised training courses by the Laval University consultants.
2. Document Production
In order to equip trainers with the required material and provide them with the
support needed in their role as extension workers, 16 booklets were prepared by Laval
University consultants for the educational components. These booklets were translated by
local experts.



29
3. Dissemination of Training
In order to target the teachers, training seminars were planned by the strategic
group for the benefit of inspectors and principals and were held in Morocco. Inspectors
were then to provide training for all teachers.
Following the recommendations of an international expert, this level of training was
reviewed and then replaced with a model based on self-training rather than a basic training
course.
The strategic group developed a timetable which calls for the design and publication
of self-training manuals between November 1996 and March 1997.
Planning Component
Subcomponent 7.1: Development of planning procedures. The main activities
carried out by the information technology unit set up under the project are
summarized below:
-    The information technology prepared, in April 1995, the detailed framework
for the new system, which was completed in December 1995.
-    The detailed analysis began in January 1996 and continued up to August.
-    Computer programming began in June 1996 under the direction of a national
information technology consultant.
-    A preliminary trial of data collection (by unit) began in May 1996 at the
Temara branch office.
-    With the cooperation of four branch offices, an experimental phase began in
November with the new data programs.
-    This pilot project conducted in four sites will be evaluated at a seminar
scheduled for April 21 and 22, 1997. Guidelines will then be drawn up from the
findings to prevent further recurrence of problems encountered during that phase.
Several seminars have been held under this subcomponent for the benefit of DSPP
central and regional staff. Supplementary training workshops in the field of sampling and
statistical analysis have been organized for planning officers.
Self-training materials are now being prepared in collaboration with two experts,
(one international and one national), and with DSPP staff.



30
Subcomponent 7.2: Study on Prospects in School
Two research projects were carried out on the workings of the educational system.
The first study examines student learning and achievements in the second and fifth grades
of basic education. A preliminary report provides an analysis of both grades; the final
report will be available at the end of April 1997.
The second study analyzes the transition from the first to the second cycle of basic
education. The preliminary report is available, and the final version will be available by the
end of April 1997.
A seminar on training of researchers and inspectors was held prior to the study
surveys being carried out, and supplemented by other seminars which dealt with correcting
tests and supervision of questionnaires.
School Health Components
The feasibility study on a low-cost eyeglass production unit for disadvantaged
students, was carried out (component 8), but the subproject itself was never implemented,
having been canceled.
Activities under this component were confined to automating the service responsible
for monitoring school injuries. Software was developed to process files on school injuries.
Training for the Division staff in the use of this software is to take place by the end of
April 1997.
Additional computer equipment is being purchased to reinforce the Division's
information processing capacity.
Problems in Implementation
Physical Program
Overall, the implementation timetable for the two components (construction and
equipment) was not adhered to due to the following:
-    Underestimation of construction costs during project preparation, which
failed to take into account delays in payments to contractors.
-    High turnover of project implementation unit staff between 1989 and
December 1995.
-    Transfer of construction to local communities which contributed to delays in
submission of supporting documents by the communities and funds being blocked
by the Ministry of Finance.



31
-    Delays in processing disbursement documentation for the special account due
to administrative constraints.
Technical Assistance
The implementation of the technical assistance was hindered by a major obstacle,
namely the decrease in the budget envelope initially allocated to technical assistance (from
US$4.0 million to US$2.5 million), for which qualitative objectives and institutional
building were not fully achieved. Negotiations took three years, and commencement of
activities did not take place until June 1993, following approval of the agreement with
UNESCO, i.e. after a delay of more than three years.
It must be noted that the consolidation of the 10 initial components into seven in
order to reduce the budget envelope was speedily done, without involvement from the
units directly concerned with the project. The activities on community-based support and
other activities which were to allow for resource mobilization for the project were
canceled. Moreover, a review of component objectives was not carried out in light of
imposed deadlines, which were further curtailed given the imminent closing date.
The delay had repercussions on the completion of project components which were
still in the pilot and evaluation stages, draft documents produced but yet to be revised and
finalized, and limited training for the groups participating in training dissemination.
Project Performance
Physical Programs
If we take into consideration that 1996 is the project completion year, then we can
say that the objectives were more or less achieved. The number of students in rural basic
education increased 40% over the 1987-88 school year, compared to the 38% target.
Enrollment for girls increased 74%, versus the 75% target. Gross enrollment rates
followed the same upward trend, rising to 80% and 46% for boys and girls, respectively,
compared to the 79% and 49% project targets.
Technical Assistance
In reference to initial project objectives, one may state that results expected from
each component did not measure up to those anticipated. However, considering that
delays were reduced by half, even taking into account start-up delays in technical
assistance activities, the results are evaluated as positive given that the components are at
a stage of validation for further expanded implementation.



32
Teaching Components
The teaching components did not achieve their objectives when measured up against
initial objectives, if we consider that this would lead to better methods used by inspectors,
principals and teachers in programming, evaluation, management, and multigrade teaching.
On the other hand, training activities and booklet production - which were widely
distributed - produced a dynamic flow to the gradual changes which will introduced
beyond the present project.
Planning Component
The objective on capacity building for planning, monitoring and evaluation was only
partly achieved. However, the development of a new information system, for which an
innovative approach was proposed to data collection, represents a major step towards
putting in place a relational database with a view to systematically monitor the educational
system. The testing and work undertaken thus far indicates that the new system is
welcomed by external services to the MEN. The evaluation by four branch offices of the
pilot testing, planned for April 21 and 22, should lead to an expansion in the use of the
new system to other provinces.
The two evaluation studies of Subcomponent 7.2 provide a better understanding of
factors influencing student learning and achievement and point to actions to improve
educational outputs.
School Health Component
The objectives set for this component, which aimed to sensitize the various
participants in improving school health, have not been achieved. The activities to be
carried out have been either canceled or were performed only in part. However, the staff
of the division concerned have acquired knowledge that will enable them to carry out the
activities needed to improve the delivery of school health services beyond the present
project scope.
Project Follow-up by the World Bank
The World Bank supervised the project through missions and aide-memoires
submitted to the Ministry. The Bank has also demonstrated flexibility, through the
extension of the project closing date, which allowed for the completion of activities that
could not have taken place under the initial project execution schedule. Still, there have
been weaknesses in project follow-up, such as:
-    Limited number of field supervision missions;
-    The absence of a tripartite (IBRD, AfDB, Government) mid-term reviews;
-    Revision to the loan amount (cancellation of US$8.0 million), which led to an
underestimation of equipment, especially teaching equipment;



33
Lack of coordination between the IBRD and the ADB during project
implementation.
Lessons Learned
The lessons learned from this project relate to correcting problems that arose during
preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.  These problems can be
summarized as follows:
-    Preparation was not sufficiently in-depth or detailed with regard to
responsibilities, activities and products.
-    Aspects of management were not fine-tune during preparation, and no
standard bidding document prepared.
-    Technical assistance was overestimated, and preparation work of terms of
references and standard bidding documents was not sufficiently detailed.
-    Project implementation suffered from preparatory weaknesses, and lack of an
organizational chart outlining the responsibilities and tasks for each involved
participant at the central, provincial and local levels.
-    The lack of horizontal and vertical coordination at the central level (within
MEN and other departments) as well as the provincial level (Governor, MEN
branch office, and other departments, etc.), affected smooth project
implementation.
-    Lack of a monitoring and evaluation system which would allow for necessary
adjustments during implementation caused delays and ill-founded revisions.
-    Lack of involvement by external agencies, where the activities were taking
place, and lack of project information during preparation and implementation
contributed to insufficient support for the project.
Project Sustainability
Following implementation of those actions which were delayed, project
sustainability will be improved through the implementation of the World Bank program on
Social Priorities (BAJ 1), under which an extension of activities under the present project
are found in the new BAJ 1 project components. These include improving access to, and
retention rates in the first cycle of basic education, narrowing gender gaps in enrollment
rates, imiproving the quality of teaching and reinforcing planning methodologies,
programming, management, and monitoring and evaluation methods in the education
sector. Lessons learned from this project are being used towards achieving the objectives
set for the BAJ 1.
The shortcomings noted in the present project were, in the main, avoided during
the preparation of the BAJ 1 program. However, delays have been encountered during
the implementation of this project, though actions taken by each participant were clearly
outlined, and implementation arrangements at the central and provincial levels were
precisely defined.






Kingdom of Morocco
Implementation Completion Report
Rural Primary Education Project
Evolution of Enrollments
First Cycle of Basic Education (1987/88-1995/96)
CON)
87-88                       88-89                        89-90                        90-91                       91-92
Garpons    Fils    Total    Gargons    Files     Total    Gargons    F4es    Total   Gargons    Fles    Total   Gargons    F4ss    Total
URBAIN
Non-doublants      502.0   448.9   951.0        526.5   469.1    995.6       566.9   505.1    1,072       668.2   598.1    1,266      665.4   605.8   1,271
Doublants           113.7    83.9   197.6       108.5    77.7   186.3        106.1    72.9      179        99.6    67.6      167      117.8    75.6      193
Total           615.7   532.8  1,148.5       635.0   546.9  1,181.9       673.0   578.0   1,251        767.7   665.7   1,433       783.1    681.5   1,465
Nouveaux inscrits                               115.5   103.4   218.9        118.2   108.3   226.6        121.6   112.0   233.6       120.4   112.3   232.7
87-88                       88-89                        89-90                        90-91                       91-92
Gargons    FAies    Total   Gargons    Files     Total    Gargons    Fies    Total   Gar!ons    Fies    Total   Gar9ons    Files    Total
RURAL
Non-doublants      558.4   232.7   791.1        518.0   214.0   732.0        508.3   210.5   718.7        600.9   254.6   855.5       617.7   280.0   897.7
Doublants          121.2    41.7   162.9        103.5    34.1    137.6        87.1    28.2   115.3         78.1    27.6   105.7        91.8    30.9   122.7
Total            679.6   274.4   954.0        621.4   248.2   869.6        595.4   238.7   834.1       678.9   282.2   961.2        709.5   310.9  1,020.4
Nouveaux insrits                                124.0    58.3    182.3       133.2    64.1    197.3       139.2    73.4   212.6       147.4    82.0   229.5
87-88                       88-89                        89-90                        90-91                       91-92
Gar,ons    Fies    Total   Gargons    Fies       Total    Gar,ons    Files    Total   Gargons    Fles    Total   Gargons    Files    Total
URBAIN + RURAL
Non-doublants     1,060.4   681.6  1,742.1     1,044.5   683.2  1,727.6    1,075.2   715.6  1,790.8    1,269.0   852.7  2,121.7    1,283.1    885.9  2,168.9
Doublants          234.9   125.6   360.5        212.0   111.9   323.9        193.2   101.1   294.3        177.6    95.2   272.9       209.6   106.5   316.1
Total             1,295.3   807.2  2,102.6    1,256.5   795.1  2,051.5    1,268.4   816.7  2,085.1       1,446.7   947.9  2,394.6    1,492.6   992.4  2,485.0
Abandons            135.4    78.1    213.4       90.7    54.0    144.7        82.5    54.2   136.6         82.7    50.4   133.1        73.5    48.0   121.5
Nouveaux inscrits                               239.4   161.7   401.1        251.5   172.4   423.9        260.8   185.4   446.1       267.9   194.3   462.2
>
(D (D
ra 



Kingdom of Morocco
Implementation Completion Report
Rural Primary Education Project
Evolution of Enrollments
First Cycle of Basic Education (1987/88-1995/96)
c000)
92-93                       93-94                        94-95                      95-96
Gar9ons    F4es    Total   Garpons    Files    Total   Gargons    Files    Total   Garpons    Fifes    Total
URBAIN
Non-doublants      732.1   661.5   1,394        744.9   680.4   1,425       764.7   700.6   1,465       769.4   713.2   1,483
Doublants          130.4    84.5      215       130.3    84.0     214       124.4    82.5      207      130.5    84.7      215
Total           862.4   746.0   1,608        875.2   764.5   1,640       889.0   783.1   1,672       899.9   797.8   1,698
Nouveaux inscrits  138.6   126.9   265.5        137.8   128.4   266.2       136.9   127.7   264.6       135.4   126.9   262.3
92-93                       93-94                       94-95                        95-96
Gar9ons    Files    Total   Gargons    Fies    Total   Gargons    Files    Total   Gargons    Files    Total
RURAL
Non-doublants      615.8   282.4   898.2      663.54  330.702  994.242      707.0   372.8  1,079.8      727.1   403.7  1,130.8
Doublants           90.6    30.4   121.0         99.1    36.3   135.4       102.4    41.4   143.8       109.0    45.2   154.1
Total            706.4   312.8  1,019.2      762.6   367.0  1,129.6       809.4   414.2  1,223.6      836.1   448.8  1,284.9
Nouveauxinscrits   161.1    91.3   252.4        168.4   105.1   273.5       163.5   108.0   271.5       159.8   111.2   271.1
92-93                       93-94                       94-95                        95-96
Gar9ons    Fies    Total   Gargons    Ffies    Total   Gargons    Files    Total   Garpons    Fifes    Total
URBAIN + RURAL
Non-doublants     1,347.8   943.9  2,291.7    1,408.5  1,011.1  2,419.6    1,471.6  1,073.4  2,545.0    1,496.5  1,116.8  2,613.4
Doublants          221.0   114.9   335.9        229.4   120.3   349.8       226.8   123.9   350.7       239.5   129.8   369.3
Total             1,568.8  1,058.8  2,627.6    1,637.9  1,131.5  2,769.3    1,698.4  1,197.3  2,895.7    1,736.0  1,246.7  2,982.7
Abandons            78.2    50.4   128.7         78.2    56.5   134.7        89.0    71.0   160.0       108.8    82.9   191.7
Nouveaux inscrits  299.7   218.2   517.9        306.2   233.5   539.7       300.5   235.6   536.1       295.2   238.1    533.4
OQ :
0



IaRD 21270
M   d,fer    n a an       So a
MOROCCO                                                                                                    zA                                     i o
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                5 , -ZAE .EIao
-      Mai, Roa-dAi
- S.ordory Road, 
rr                                                                           OIMW S bd d To ond VlEllg M,/ 8   I |   _>   e3eNI MeLL^L -__   <_   *   _            L
7~~~~7   Mr~~~~~~.                                   SPit:~~~~~eFw  CA!ASLANC  LAt tIo       A                OUaE
B_/    m  'Sik    A. s.,O,,  44
4PT                                                            II 1A.AA                                   I            N
N.H.-N C.pftl                                      SINI P P3
T.. /SZA/VSA    AAZATE
,  I,r   /Y  --~~~~ 13' I ;' 4 4 _ OECEMEER I 3BB~_                             _                                         I
A UO-TE~~~~GAEAAT 
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~A
33                                                  - TEROUOENTI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILMTR
CAfVARK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3~
ISiANDS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
28'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEBR18









IMAGING
Report No.:         16538
Type,     ICR



