Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3026 MOR
                 (Rural Primary Education Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 21, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3026 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  21,  1989,  between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     (B)  the Borrower intends  to  contract from another external
source of funds (the  Cofinancier)  a  loan  (the Cofinance) in an
amount equivalent to $40,000,000  to  assist  in financing part of
the Project on the terms and  conditions set forth in an agreement
(the  Cofinancing  Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between  the
Borrower and the Cofinancier; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
     (b)  "DSHAP"  means  the  Department  of  School  Hygiene and
Accident Prevention within MOE responsible for school hygiene;
     (c)  "TTI" means  the  teacher  training  institutions of the
Borrower;
     (d)  "primary  education"  means  the   first  six  years  of
education provided by the Borrower;
     (e)  "primary school" means  a  school  of the Borrower which
provides primary education to its students;
     (f)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (g)  "Dirhams"  and  "DH"  each  mean  the  currency  of  the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to eighty-
three million dollars ($83,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain  in  Dirhams  a  special  account in the General
Treasury of the Kingdom within  the Borrower's Ministry of Finance
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Page  3
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative, economic,  financial,  engineering and educational
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. Without limitation on the generality of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  take  all   measures   necessary   to  ensure  that  the
feasibility study on the system for the provision of eyeglasses to
students under Part D (3) of  the Project shall be completed and a
copy thereof,  together  with  the  recommendations based thereon,
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than September 30, 1990;
     (b) afford  the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said study and recommendations; and
     (c) thereafter, if and  to  the  extent  the Borrower and the
Bank shall have  agreed,  on  the  basis  of  said study, that the
development of  said  system  is  warranted,  promptly develop and
introduce the same.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
Page  4
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section  and  those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Cofinancing Agreement  shall  have  failed to become
effective by June 30, 1990,  or  such  later  date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however,  that  the  provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for  the Project are available to the
Borrower from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
    (b)   (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
Page  5
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of the Cofinance or any other loan or
                    any  grant  made  to   the  Borrower  for  the
                    financing  of  the  Project  shall  have  been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                    in  part,  pursuant   to   the  terms  of  the
                    Cofinancing  Agreement   or   other  agreement
                    providing therefor; or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:  (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or  prematuring  is  not  caused by the
               failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from  other   sources   on   terms  and  conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event  is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph  (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
     Section 6.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
     Ministere des Finances
     Rabat
     Kingdom of Morocco
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              MINISTERE FINANCES               32715 M
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
Page  6
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in  the city of Rabat, Kingdom of
Morocco, as of the day and year first above written.
                   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                   By /s/ M. Berrada
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ B. Conable
                                                         President
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of  items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated
                          (Expressed in             of %
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works               48,800,000      80%
(2) Goods                     23,800,000      100% of foreign
                                              expenditures,
                                              100% of local
                                              expenditures
                                              (ex-factory
                                              cost) and 80%
                                              of local ex-
                                              penditures for
                                              other items pro-
                                              cured locally
(3) Consultants'               4,000,000      100%
    services,
    fellowships
    and training
(4) Unallocated                6,400,000
                              __________
          TOTAL
                              83,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
Page  7
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  1  of  this
Schedule, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to (1) increase the access
of  the  Borrower's  rural  population  to  primary  education and
improve the attendance of  said  population in primary school, (2)
improve  the  quality   of   primary   education,  (3)  strengthen
institutional capabilities  in  the  Borrower's  primary education
sub-sector  and  (4)   strengthen   the   efficient  and  rational
utilization of resources in such sub-sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
(1)  Construction,  furnishing   and   equipping   of  classrooms,
canteens and staff houses required for primary schools.
(2)  Furnishing of offices for primary school administrators.
(3)  Carrying out of (a) a  pilot  program for the construction of
sanitary facilities and wells required for primary schools and (b)
a study, based  on  the  results  of  such  pilot  program, of the
suitability of expanding the same to other rural areas.
(4)  Provision of vehicles  required  for  the  supervision of the
carrying out of Parts A (1), A (2) and A (3) of the Project.
(5)  Carrying out of  a  program  to  promote the participation of
rural communities in the  construction  and maintenance of primary
school facilities.
Part B:
(1)  Development and  introduction  of  a suitable self-sustaining
system for  the  acquisition  and  distribution  by primary school
cooperatives  of  textbooks  to  primary  students  at  affordable
prices, including the provision to said cooperatives of an initial
supply of textbooks.
(2)  Carrying out  of  a  program  to  promote  the development of
school cooperatives and parent-teacher associations, consisting of
the preparation  and  dissemination  of  promotional materials and
organization of conferences and seminars for interested parents.
(3)  Preparation and dissemination,  through  field  visits to the
rural communities in which classrooms  are to be constructed under
Part A  of  the  Project,  of  promotional  materials to encourage
increased enrollment  of,  and  attendance  by,  girls  in primary
schools.
(4)  Carrying out of a program  to assist rural communities in the
development and  introduction  of  suitable  programs to encourage
increased enrollment  of,  and  attendance  by,  girls  in primary
schools.
Part C:
(1)  Carrying out of a  program  to strengthen the capabilities of
MOE in  primary  education  curriculum  development  including the
provision of fellowships for MOE staff.
(2)  Development and  introduction  of  suitable primary education
Page  8
programs, including multi-grade teaching techniques.
(3)  Development and  introduction  of  a standardized achievement
testing  program,  including   the   provision  of  equipment  and
materials required therefor.
(4)  Carrying out of a  program  to  develop and apply appropriate
policies and  procedures  for  the  recruitment  and assignment of
administrative and teaching staff to primary schools.
(5)  Carrying  out  of  a   program  to  strengthen  the  training
services provided  by  TTIs,  consisting  of  the  development and
carrying out of:
     (a)  pre-service  training   programs   for   primary  school
teachers, including practice  teaching  in  rural primary schools,
instruction in multi-grade  teaching  techniques  and in effective
teaching  strategies,  and  provision  of  training  materials and
equipment to be utilized in said programs;
     (b)  in-service training seminars for primary school teachers
and provision of  instructional  equipment, materials and vehicles
required therefor;
     (c)  a  multi-grade   instruction   program,   including  the
provision of (i)  study  tours  for  MOE  staff,  (ii) training to
teachers and supervisors of multi-grade classes, and equipment and
materials to be utilized  in  such training, and (iii) educational
materials to be utilized in teaching multi-grade classes; and
     (d)  training  programs  to  enhance  the  skills  of primary
school  principals   in   school   administration,  including  the
provision of fellowships and  training materials required for said
program.
Part D:
(1)  Strengthening  of  the   institutional  capabilities  of  the
Borrower relating to the provision of health education to students
in primary school, through the:
     (a)  development and  introduction  in  primary  schools of a
health education program, including  the provision of (i) training
and fellowships to MOE staff  and teachers in health education and
(ii) equipment and materials  to  be  utilized in health education
courses; and
     (b)  development and  utilization  by  DSHAP  of a management
information system.
(2)  Strengthening of the provision  of health services in primary
schools  through  the   provision   of   technical  equipment  and
motorcycles to be  utilized  by  nursing  staff  assigned to rural
primary schools in the performance of their duties.
(3)  (a)  Carrying out of a  study  to  analyze the feasibility of
developing a  suitable  system  for  the  provision, at affordable
prices, of prescription  eye  glasses  to  primary school students
requiring corrective lenses.
     (b)  Development and introduction, if  and  to the extent the
Bank agrees such  development  is  warranted  on  the basis of the
study carried out under  Part  D  (3)  (a)  of the Project, of the
system analyzed  under  said  study,  including  the  provision of
equipment and materials required therefor.
Part E:
(1)  Development and  utilization  by  MOE  of  a  suitable school
mapping information system,  including  the  provision of computer
hardware  and  software  required  therefor,  the  development and
carrying out of  training  programs  for  MOE  staff to strengthen
Page  9
their skills in the utilization  of said system, and the provision
of fellowships for said staff.
(2)  Carrying out of a  program  to strengthen the capabilities of
MOE in the evaluation  of  educational programs, consisting of the
provision of fellowships for  MOE  staff  and  the carrying out of
studies to evaluate the effects  of the provision of textbooks and
teacher training and supervision on the educational achievement of
primary school students.
Part F:
(1)  Carrying  out  of   a   program   to  develop  and  implement
appropriate policies and procedures  for the efficient utilization
of resources in the Borrower's rural primary education sub-sector,
including  those  relating  to   (a)  utilization  of  educational
facilities, (b) utilization of  administrative and teaching staff,
and (c) effective provision of educational materials.
(2)  Development  and  carrying  out  of  a  suitable  program  of
periodic maintenance of the Borrower's primary school facilities.
                 *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
August 15, 1994                                    1,525,000
February 15, 1995                                  1,580,000
August 15, 1995                                    1,640,000
February 15, 1996                                  1,705,000
August 15, 1996                                    1,770,000
February 15, 1997                                  1,840,000
August 15, 1997                                    1,910,000
February 15, 1998                                  1,980,000
August 15, 1998                                    2,055,000
February 15, 1999                                  2,135,000
August 15, 1999                                    2,220,000
February 15, 2000                                  2,305,000
August 15, 2000                                    2,390,000
February 15, 2001                                  2,480,000
August 15, 2001                                    2,575,000
February 15, 2002                                  2,675,000
August 15, 2002                                    2,780,000
February 15, 2003                                  2,885,000
August 15, 2003                                    2,995,000
February 15, 2004                                  3,110,000
August 15, 2004                                    3,230,000
February 15, 2005                                  3,350,000
August 15, 2005                                    3,480,000
February 15, 2006                                  3,615,000
August 15, 2006                                    3,750,000
February 15, 2007                                  3,895,000
August 15, 2007                                    4,045,000
February 15, 2008                                  4,200,000
August 15, 2008                                    4,360,000
February 15, 2009                                  4,520,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
Page  10
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods manufactured in the Borrower's
territory may be  granted  a  margin  of  preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts  for  goods  estimated   to   cost  less  than  the
equivalent of  $100,000  each,  but  more  than  the equivalent of
$25,000  each,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed the
equivalent  of  $2,200,000,  may  be   awarded  on  the  basis  of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for  goods  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$25,000 or less each, up to  an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,100,000,  and  contracts  for  wells and sanitary
facilities, regardless of the cost  thereof, may be awarded on the
basis of comparison of  price  quotations  solicited from at least
three suppliers eligible under  the Guidelines, in accordance with
Page  11
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.   Contracts for textbooks may be awarded on the basis of direct
negotiations  with  the  supplier   thereof,  in  accordance  with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With  respect  to  each   contract   to  be  awarded  in
accordance with the  provisions  of  Part  A  of  this Section and
estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $200,000  or  more,  the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Bank prior  to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to consultants:  (A)  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to DH 50,000,000 to  be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
Page  12
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special  Account for eligible expenditures.
                All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn by the Bank
                from  the  Loan   Account   under  the  respective
                eligible  Categories,   and   in   the  respective
                equivalent amounts, as  shall  have been justified
                by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  13
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A)  provide  such  additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant  provisions of  this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
