                                    Documentof
                                 TheWorId Bank




                                                    Report No. 39689




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                      BRAZIL

WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTIONCONTROL PROJECT (LOANS 3503-BR,
     XO~-BR,~ ~ O S - B RTHE STATES OF sAo PAULO AND PARANA)
                         'ro

     ESPiRITO SANTO WATER COASTAL POLLUTION MANAGEMENT
                            PROJECT(LOAN 3767-BR)



                                    June 11,2007




Sector, Thematic arid Global Evaluation Division
hidependent Evaluation Gsoltp (World Bank)

                                                    11



Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Ciirrencj' Units = Cruzeiro (OS), Cruzeiro Real fCR$),ctiid Real (R$j

1991 US$1.00              Cr$408.78                    1999 US$ 1.00            R$ 1.82
1992 US$1.00              Cr$ 4,498.62                2000 US$l.OO              R$ 1.83
1993 US$ 1.00             CR$ 88.45                   2001 US$I.OO              R$ 2.36
1994 US$1.00              CR$913.35/R$0.85            2002 US$ 1-00             R$2.92
1995 US$1.00              R$O.92                      2003 US$ 1.00             R%3.08
1996 US$ 1.OO             RS 1.01                     2004 US$ 1.00             R$2.93
1997 US$ 1.00             R$ 1.08                     2005 US$ 1.00             R$2.33
1998 US$ 1.00             R$ 1.16                     2006 US$ 1.00             R$2.14
Source: World Bank and UNDP databases


Abbreviations and Acronyms

CESAN            Companhia Espirito Santensede Saneamento
COBRAPE          Companhia Brasileirade Projetos e Ernpreendimentos
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IEG              Independent Evaluation Group (formerly OED)
LAC              Latin America and Caribbean
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report


Fiscal Year

Governinent:              January 1-- December 31




Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)           : Mr.Ajay Chibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global EvaluationDivision       :   Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                                  : Mr.JohnRedwood
Note: Since VinodThomas - Director-General, IEG- was World Rank Country Director for Brazil during
the period covered by the PPAR, he recused hiniself from all review and supervisory functions related to it.

I IEGWB Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independencein evaluation.                     I

 About this Report
        The IndependentEvaluationGroupassesses the programsand activities of the World Bankfor two purposes:
 first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluation processandto verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
 expectedresults,and second,to help develop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough the
 disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience. As part of this work, IEGWBannually assesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting operations for assessment, preferenceis givento those that are
 innovative,large,or complex;thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;thosefor which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requested assessments;and those that are likely to generate
 importantlessons.The projects, topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessment support larger evaluation
 studies.
        A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is basedon a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department)and fieldwork conducted by IEGWB. To prepare
 PPARs, IEGWBstaff examine project files and other documents, interviewoperational staff, and in most cases
 visit the borrowingcountry for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the informationprovided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 IEGWBstudies.
        Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEGWB management approval. Once cleared internally,
 the PPAR is reviewed by the responsibleBank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is
 then sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the
 Bank's Boardof ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the
 public.


 About the IEGWB Rating System
        IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
 lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
 arrive at their project ratings. Followingis the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
 (additional informationis availableon the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
        Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevantobjectives were achieved, or are expected to
 be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
 relevanceof objectives and relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project's
 objectives are consistentwith the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
 sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
 Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevanceof design is the extent to which
 the project's design is consistentwith the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
 were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
 extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
 and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
 operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
        Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
 expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
 Significant, Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
        Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
 operation and supported effective implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
 transition arrangementsfor regularoperation of supported activities after loadcredit closing, toward the
 achievement of developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
 Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
        Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (includingthe government and implementing
 agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation,and complied with covenants and
 agreements, toward the achievementof development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
 performanceand implementingagency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
 Satisfactory, Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, Highly
 Unsatisfactory.


                                                                            i


Contents

CONTENTS        ....................................................................................................................................                            i


PRINCIPAL RATINGS                   .............................................................................................................                              i11


KEY STAFFRESPONSIBLE                           ...................................................................................................                             i11


SUMMARY        ................................................................................................................................                              VI1


1 BACKGROUNDAND CONTEXT: NEWAPPROACHESTO WATER QUALITY IN
 .
DENSEURBANWATERSHEDS                                  ................................................................................................                          1


2 PROJECTOBJECTIVESAND DESIGN: URBANWATER BASINSAND THE POOR
 .      ............................................................................................................................................                            2

             Project Objectives and Relevanceto Brazil...............................................................................................                            2
             Basin Project Design-Hybrids of Water and Sanitationand Slums Improvement..................................                                                        4
             AddressingPoverty in Water Basins.........................................................................................................                          6


3 RHYTHM OFIMPLEMENTATION. RECOVERY. INNOVATION
 .                                                                    PITFALLS,                                                                                          .......7
             Political Transitions................................................................................................................................... 7
                                                                   ......................                     ................................................................. 8
             Discovery, Learning, and Innovation ........................................................................................................
             Social Issuesandthe Poor......
                                                                                                                                                                                 9
             Institutions, Rules, and Agencies...................................................................................
             Borrower and BankPerformance............................................................................................................                           10


4 OUTCOMES.
 .                        LEGACY FRAMEWORK                                     .........................................................................                        11

             Sustainability........................                                    ......................................
             Efficiency-View           from the Slums ..........................................................................................................                13
             Monitoring and Water Quality                                                              ..........................
             Institutional Development             ....
             Additional Notes on Espirito
             Balancing the Ledger...............................................................................................................................                16
             Parani: Breacho f Contract Remedied


5 RATINGS
 .               ................................................................................................................................                               16


6. LESSONS       INDEVELOPMENTEFFECTIVENESS. BRICKSAND GIANT                                                SMALL
STEPSINURBANINFRASTRUCTURE                                           ................................................................................                           17


REFERENCES           ............................................................................................................................                               21

This report was preparedby Tim Campbell. Consultant. who assessed the two projects inMay-June 2006.
DeboraBrakarz provided research assistance and Soon-Won Pak provided administrative support.

                                                 ..
                                                 11



ANNEX A BASICDATA SHEET
       .                        ...........................................................................................       25

ANNEX B FOCUSGROUPRECALLS. ANAGENCY FOR
       .                                     CONCEIVING
COORDINATIONAND CONTROLINSA0 PAUL0                                ...........................................................    31


ANNEX C. PROJECTTIME         LINES .......................................................................................       33


ANNEX D MAPS OFBASINSAND PHOTOSOF SLUM AREA IMPROVEMENTSIN
       .
sAo PAULO. CURITIBA. VIT~RIA.        AND BELO HORIZONTE                                   ...................................... 35


ANNEX E ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTSCONSULTED
       .                                                                  ....................................................    41

                                                   ...
                                                   111




PrincipalRatings

                                            ICR*                     ES*                    PPAR

WATER QUALITYANDPOLLUTIONCONTROLPROJECT(LOANS3503-BR,3504-BR, 3505-BR TO THE
STATESOF SA0 PAULOAND PARANA)

Outcome                                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Sustainability                             Likely                   Likely                  Likely
Institutional Development Impact        Substantial              Substantial             Substantial
Bank Performance                        Satisfactory             Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                    Satisfactory             Satisfactory           Satisfactory

ESP~RITOSANTOWATERCOASTALPOLLUTIONMANAGEMENTPROJECT(LOAN3767-BR)

Outcome                                 Satisfactory             Moderately              Moderately
                                                                 Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Sustainability                             Likely                   Likely                  Likely
Institutional Development Impact         Negligible              Negligible               Negligible
Bank Performance                        Satisfactory             Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                    Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory

* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently
verify the findings of the ICR.


KeyStaffResponsible

Project                         Task Manager/Leader           Division Chief/         Country Director
                                                              Sector Director

WATER QUALITYANDPOLLUTIONCONTROLPROJECT(LOANS3503-BR, 3504-BR, 3505-BR TO THE
STATESOF SA0 PAULOAND PARANA)

 Appraisal                       Emilio H. Rodriguez             Asif Faiz            Armeane Choksi
 Completion                       Carlos E. Velez            John Henry Stein          Vinod Thomas

ESP~RITOSANTOWATERCOASTALPOLLUTIONMANAGEMENTPROJECT(LOAN3767-BR)

 Appraisal                        Carlos E. Velez                Asif Faiz            Rainer Steckhan
 Completion                       Carlos E. Velez            John Henry Stein          Vinod Thomas


                                              V



Preface
        This performance assessment addresses a cluster o fprojects that represent a
turning point inBank strategy for the water sector inBrazil inthe early 1990s. The
projects are the Brazil Water Quality and PollutionControl Project (CPL 35030),
implemented inStio Paul0 andParani, andthe Espirito Santo Water and Coastal
PollutionManagement Project (CPL 37670). Reference i s made occasionally to the
Minas Gerais Water Quality andPollution Control Project (CPL 35540). This third
member ofthe cluster (and a fourth city) originated alongwith CPL 35030 in$992,but
becauseit beganto advance quickly, it was split off and handled ina separate operation.
A performance audit was completed onthis project in2000. The Minas Gerais project is
invoked inkeyplaces inthis report only to help understand the conception and evolution
o fpolicy andpractice inthe urbanbasin approach.

        The review was based on standard sources, such as project documents, ESW and
other materials, including Bank documents and staff involvedincomparable countries
(e.g., India, Mexico, and China). Where relevant and available, materials were also
consulted from reviewedliterature, as well as discussions with present and former Bank
staff. Field work involved extensive interviews with country officials and beneficiaries
inthree statesandthe nationalcapital, andbenefitedfrom notable sources ofinformation,
including:

         a focus group o f senior project managers in Stio Paul0 (described inAnnex B);
        consultations with and observation o f local community residents and
        beneficiaries;
        interviewswith a former head o f state government inParanaand a former director
        o f a national agency (ANA);
        data gatheredby a private consulting firm on the comparative market values o f
        properties-those belonging to direct beneficiaries as well as those belonging to
        residents incomparable properties near-by;
        a helicopter over-flight and multiple on-ground visits to review progress ina
        comparable project sight inBelo Horizonte; and,
        Country Director and keyBank technical staff inBrazil.

        Though it i s a self-standing product, this assessment also serves as an input into
an evaluation o f the effectiveness o f World Bank assistanceon the environment to Brazil
and other key client countries.

        Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o f the draft PPARwas sent to the
Borrowers for comments, but none were received.


                                                    vii


Summary

        This report covers a cluster o f urban environmental projects inBrazil conceived in
the early 1990s and implementedover nearly a decade.' Inall cases, an overarching
objectivewas to preserve and improve water quality. But this aim was mixed with actions
to assist low income residents inhighly dense urbansettings inthree o fBrazil's most
important cities. Inblendingwater quality with poverty reduction measures, the projects
represented different versions o f a new approach, and eachproduced rich insights.

        The projects achieved their statedor revised objectives, andmay have achieved
greater benefits than anticipated. Project benefits appear to be sustainable and they have
laid the groundwork for a new approach to managingwater quality inlargeurbanareas.
Above all, they broke a conventional mold andrepresent important new standards o f
policy and practice inBank assistance inthe water and sanitation sector inBrazil.
Brazilian institutions at local, state, and national levels interacted with each other and the
Bank to shape a comprehensive approach to water quality and sanitation. The projects
served as a vehicle to move upstreaminwater resource management, includingplanning,
resource allocation, establishment o f an economic concept o f water, and laying the basis
for sustainable finance. Theses projects adopted a wider geographic scope, movingto a
basin-wide scale to achieve quality and efficiency objectives indense urban areas.

        Duringimplementation, Bank and countryteams learned that the water quality
projects were inextricably linked with poverty issues. Studies conducted duringproject
implementation inseveral cities revealed that the most serious issues o fwater pollution
involved solid refuse and wastewater from low income settlements, not industrial
sources. Thus, evenbefore the advent o f the MillenniumDevelopment Goals, these
projects demonstrated that solutions for improvedwater quality were highlylinkedwith
measures to alleviate poverty, at least insome metropolitanareas.

        Considerable time and resources were spent duringimplementation to address
operational challenges related to sanitary connections for individual residences or, where
this was not feasible because o f topography or crowding, to build new shelter for
resettled residents. Inboth cases, this entailed extensive beneficiary participationand
attention to individual andblock-by-block engineering and constructionneeds. In-situ
retrofit approaches developed under the projects have beenadopted by the City of S3o
Paul0 and are still being followed as o f 2006.

        Economic or financial parameters were not always fully met, but this was not
sufficiently serious to require a change inproject performance ratings. At the same time,


1. These are the Brazil Water Quality and Pollution Control Project, 1992 (CPL 35030), implemented in
S5o Paulo and Paranit, and the Espirito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution Management Project (CPL
37670). Reference i s made occasionally to the Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control Project
(CPL 35540). This third member o f the cluster of water quality projects originated along with CPL 35030
in 1992,but because itbeganto advance quickly it was split offand handled in a separate operation. A
performance audit was completed on this project in2000.

                                              viii


improved environmental quality differences for the poor living inproject areas are
significant. The evaluation also found evidence of additional benefits, particularly in
urban real estate development and further home improvements inlow income
neighborhoods, which are typical o f derelict areas that have been accorded more secure
legal status and/or infrastructure.

         The richest lessons from an institutional perspective arise from the decisions and
actions taken by various actors and agencies inBrazil, as well as byproject managers in
the Bank. Technical specialists indifferent settings andunder different state and local
administrations sought to interpret and carry forward the original objectives of basin
management over more than a decade. This process was interrupted inParana, where
project-related institutional reforms were rejectedby the newly elected state government
shortly after the project closed. However, inthe last quarter o f 2005, the state resuscitated
policy and institutional reforms inkeeping with original project objectives.

         The Espirito Santo project sought to achieve triple objectives inwater and
sanitation: environmental quality for residents inlow-income areas, environmental
quality inoffshore waters, and improved efficiency o f the state water company. The
project assumed a similar posture as its predecessors inother states, but immediately ran
into problems o f mismanagement. These difficulties required patience and dedication by
both Brazilian authorities and the Bank. Once remedied -with partial cancellations and
redirection - the project moved effectively to address larger and longer term issues of
basin management, coastal pollution, and water quality for the urbanpoor.

        As the projects evolved, Brazil established the rudiments o f global best practice in
urban water resource management involving the poor. However, partly because o f on-
site circumstances, and due to the basin-wide scope of work and depth o f policy reform,
they took much longer to implement than originally envisioned. More importantly, key
principles have now been adopted, including the economic value o f water, the basin
approach, and rational resource allocation processes, although Brazil is still far from
consolidating this approach, which experience indeveloped countries (e.g., Spain,
France) suggests may require decades.

        The fact that Brazilian institutions are still engaged inthe reform process is due in
no small measure to the dedication and shared technical values among professionals in
the sector, despite political differences inlocal and national governments. To an
important degree, Brazil's success is also attributable to the leadership o f sector
professionals inthe Bank. The fusion ofurban poverty reduction and water basin
management into a single approach has led to notable achievements inboth realms and
represents an approach that should be more widely replicated inBrazil and elsewhere.




                                                                Ajay Chhibber
                                                                   Director
                                                        Independent Evaluation Group

                                               1


1. BackgroundandContext: New
ApproachestoWater QualityinDense
UrbanWatersheds

1.1      The cluster o fprojects reviewedinthisreport arises from circumstances o fthe
LatinAmerican regionthat were unusual, ifnot unique, among the Bank's borrowers at
the time, but are again being seen insome regions. Prolongedurbanexpansion inLatin
America during the 1960sand `70s was inthe range of 6 and 7 percent a year, far
exceeding any o fthe Bank's borrowers today except inAfrica. Rapid growth o f cities
challenged nations inthe regionto buildbasic infrastructure rapidly to keep up with
needs for water, sanitation, and solid waste for several hundredmillion urbanresidents.

1.2      The debt crisis ofthe 1980sthenbrought to the region a sudden shift away from
investment ininfrastructure to adjustment lending. As the decade o f debt beganto pass
inthe late 1980s, nations andcities were facing infrastructure shortfalls. Inturn, new
issues- ofwater quality, poverty, and giant cities -began to arise. Inthe largest cities,
municipalities were beginning to fuse into large metropolitan areas and spill over into
surrounding watersheds.

1.3      For more than two decades, Brazil sustained aprogram o f expansion o fwater
supply andwaste disposal through Planasa, a systemof finance through state water
companies that connected 50 million people to water between 1970 and 1990. The
success of Planasa program was then overcome bytwo major changes inBrazil.

1.4      The macroeconomic environment o f the 1980s (hyperinflation and monetary and
fiscal controls) brought significant trouble to the management o fwater companies and
states which were responsible for counterpart financing and maintaining the rhythmand
integrity o f capital investment inwater and sanitation. A second and perhaps equally
important factor was the move to decentralize Brazil inthe mid-1980s. Devolution o f
fiscal responsibility and decision-making power were enshrinedina new federal
Constitution promulgatedin 1988. These changes brought local governments more
prominently into view inthe provision o f infrastructure, and this transformation created a
new level o f governmental complexity inthe management o f urban water policy.

1.5      With the Bank reorganization o f 1987, inturn, key components o fthe technical
staff inthe Bank were split up and distributed by Country Department, eliminating a
critical mass o f technical specialties. This move weakened the technical capacity inthe
sector, sharply reducing internal interactionandknowledge exchange. The Bank
reorganization similarly broke up groups o f technical specialists inthe urban sector.
These events help to explain why one sectoral domain o f specialists, inthis case the water
sector and not others, say urban or public sector management, took the lead inimportant
metropolitan-wide issues. Whatever benefits and validity might have been attached to the
1987 reorganization, ineffect it made it more difficult for the Bank to respond to large-
scale, multi-sector infrastructure issues incities than previously.

                                                       2


 1.6      Whereas the issues inthe sector beforethe 1990swere largely a matter of
expansion o f connections, trunk infrastructure, and building a system o f state companies,
at the close o f the last century new issueswere becoming more important, for example
protectingthe quality o fwater resources, reducingpollution, and flood control, and
management of all this ina complex governmental matrix o f federal, state, and local
authorities. Sector specialists inthe Bank responded to these changes with anew
approach, beginningwith this cluster o fwater quality projects inBrazil.



2. ProjectObjectivesandDesign:Urban
Water BasinsandthePoor

Project Objectives and Relevance to Brazil

2.1       To address the emerging issues produced by urbanization, leaders inBrazil's
water sector with help from the Bankbegan to look for more encompassing approaches to
resolve growing problems o furban water resource management. Narrow or single sector
approaches-inwater, sanitation, urbanupgrading, or solid waste -were not themselves
capable o ftackling the most important water resource issues, especially maintaining
water quality and allocatingit rationally across many competing uses. The objectives for
bothprojects took a basin-wide approach, adopted for circumstances ineach o fthe three
states involved. See Annex D for more detail and schematic maps o fthe projects.

2.2       Accordingly, the general project objectives o f the Brazil Water Quality and
Pollution Control Project (WQPCP) were to: (i) pollution levels and preserve water
                                                             abate
quality; (ii)  help establish a sound policy for water pollution control, includingriver basin
management units; (iii)        help develop a financial capacity for the provision of services in
water basins; and (iv) a national component, to set up project preparation financing and
assistance inthe most congested urban areas o f Brazil.

2.3       More specific objectives were set ineach o f the two individual states of SBo Paul0
and Parani InSBo Paulo, the specific objectives were to establish the institutional
capability to manage the Guarapiranga basin, a large area that forms an important part o f
the urban fabric o f the city, inan environmentally sustainable manner and to improve the
quality o f life for residents o f slums and illegal settlements. For Parani, the objectives


2. I t should be pointed out that the two projects under review were implemented inthree states. The
projects are the Brazil Water Quality and Pollution Control Project, 1992 (CPL 35030), implemented in
Siio Paulo and Parani, and the Espirito Santo Water and Coastal PollutionManagement Project (CPL
37670). Reference i s made occasionally to the Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control Project
(CPL 35540). This thirdmembero fthe cluster o f water quality projects originated along with CPL 35030
in 1992,butbecause itbeganto advance quickly it was split offandhandled ina separateoperation. A
performance audit was completed on this project in2000. The reader should be aware that the Minas
Gerais is invoked inkey places inthis report only to help understand the conception and evolution o fpolicy
and practice inthe urban basin approach.

                                                        3


were to rehabilitate andmaintainthe river that flows through the capital city o f Curitiba,
the Alto Iguaqu, and its largerbasin as areliablewater source andto promote flood
control and rehabilitation o f flooded areas. The national component: (i)                 financed studies
for future projects; (ii)    gathered detailed riverbasin data to enable basincommittees to
manage water resources; and (iii)          conducted analytical studies on the finance and
economics of water resources.

2.4       For Espirito Santo, theoverall basin approach was translated into objectives that
were more attuned to the level of services and company performance. The objectives
were to: (i)   improve the efficiency o f the state water company, CESAN; (ii)                increase
coverage level o fwater supply and sanitation inkeyparts o f the city; and (iii)                provide
appropriate water and sanitation infrastructure to low income urban areas o f the capital
city, Vit6ria.

2.5       The objectives embodied inthis cluster ofprojects were a good fit and formed an
appropriate policy development at the time the projects were conceived. Among the most
far-reaching of these objectives was the creation of awholly new institutional apparatus
for the nation's management o f water resources, including a legal framework; economic
principlesthat assigned a pricing scheme to water; applying the "polluter pays" principle;
and organizational arrangements to put these new rules into effect. The project inEspirito
Santo had similar objectives, but gave higherpriority to improving the operational
efficiency o f the state water company. Incomparison to its predecessors, the project in
Espirito Santo was more tactical than strategic. The long term objectives remained valid
for all the states inBrazil.

2.6       Militating against this holistic approach were the individual interests and
objectives o f governments and agencies, any one o f which stood to lose power, authority,
or resourcesby changing the status quo inthe way the water sector was managed. Also,
more narrowly inside the Bank, the move toward a comprehensive approach ran against
conventional wisdom gained over the years from difficult or failed projects that over-
reached project management capacity at the local level, particularly inmetropolitanareas.
For instance, the Recife MetropolitanDevelopment Project, a complicatedmulti-sectoral,
mutli-agencyproject inthe 1 9 8 0 ~ ~       has longbeen cited as the original "Christmas tree" (a
project that has something for everyone). One o fthe overarching lessons o f
comprehensive projects was that few, if any, institutionalvehicles were capable o f
harnessing and coordinating many agencies and complicatedproblems such as
incomplete legal instruments, disparities inincome o f customers, and asymmetrical
political power ingovernance. These issueswere addressed inthe water quality projects.




3. By contrast, two projects inCeara, (both recently assessed by IEG inReport 36591, World Bank 2006)
took a slightly different approach. The projects are the UrbanDevelopment and Water Resources
Management Project (Ln3789-BR) called PROURB,and the Ceara Water Resources Management Pilot
Project (Ln4190-BR), called Pilot-PROGERIRH         .These  projects aimed more narrowly at water company
efficiency, water resource management by means of storage dams insub-basins, and service improvements
for the poor. Thus, the Ceara projects were not basin wide inapproach; no attempt was made to
institutionalize a rational system o f water resource allocation, and attention to low income areas was
confined to water connections and did not involve sanitation and water quality.

                                                      4


2.7      Sector specialists inBrazil and the Bank felt that a river basin approach offered
potential advantagesthat more than offset the drawbacks o fpast comprehensive projects.
The confluence o f reformideas inwater were articulated bothby Braziliananalysts as
well as by the Bank as early as the late 1980s. River basinmanagement strategies were
well developed inEurope and the United States and hadproduced positive results. Spain
created its first water basin committee inthe late 1gthCentury (1866), and the Tennessee
Valley Authority (TVA) inUnited States is a well-known example o f a comprehensive
water basinsystem that produced impressive achievements inregional development.

2.8      Theprinciples ofthis approachwere outlined inthe Bank's 1993 water sector
resources strategy paper (World Bank, 1993). That paper called for a set o fprinciples
and incentives that included the economic pricing ofwater, costs for abstraction and
pollution, basin committees for planningand strategizing, agencies to execute the river
basin investments, and a national authority to oversee and regulate this apparatus.

BasinProjectDesign-Hybrids of Water and Sanitationand Slums Improvement

2.9      Thus, the objectives ofthis cluster o fprojects were fundamentally concerned with
preservingand protectingwater quality andimproving environmental circumstances in
river basins inor around metropolitancities (see Table 2.1) densely settled with low
income populations. See Annex D for schematic maps o fthe urbanwater basins. With
the exception of Espirito Santo, explained further below, the basins are central features o f
the urban landscape. Further,to the extent that the projects blended water quality
engineering and economics together with attention to low income settlements ina single
basin, the projects are hybridso f conventional approaches for urbanwater supply and
sanitation, on the one hand, and slumupgradingor shelter improvement, on the other.

Table 2.1. Overview of ProjectDesign
Project                                       Espirito       Paranii Si30 Paulo  Minas
                                                Santo                            Gerais
Physical Works
Water Connections                                 ***         ***        ***       ***
Sewerage Connections                              ***         ***        ***       ***
WIS Treatment                                     ***         ***        ***       ***
Plants
Drainage                                          **          ***         *        **
Solid Waste                                        *           **        **         *
Flood control                                      *          ***                  ***
Environment
Parks, reforestation                                           **         *
Institutional Strengthening
Basin management                                  **          ***        ***       ***
Water company Efficiency                          ***          *          *         *
Poverty
Urban Rehab                                                    **        **        **
Resettlement                                                   *                    *
 Key: *** = very important; ** = important: * = also included

2.10    All o fthe projects adoptedriver basins as theunitsofintervention, although the
project inEspirito Santo gave more direct emphasis to cities and neighborhoods and, as
noted earlier, to water company efficiency. All o f the projects also involved

                                               5


environmental sanitation o f low income areas, although each o fthe states addressedthis
ina slightly different way. All o fthe projects engagedmanyinstitutionalactors, asmany
as a half-dozen, inthe planningand implementationo f the projects.

2.11 Though the principleswere largelythe same, each o f the states adjusted in
accordancewith the circumstances it found on the ground. For instance in Guarapiranga,
the key issue was to rectify water quality and sanitation problems that resulted from
mutually conflictingpolicies. Normally appropriate state regulations prohibiting
settlement ina water catchment area for the city collidedwith proposals to connect water
and sewerage for thousands of families that had settled despite environmental
prohibitions. The institutionalmeans to achieve this coordinationinGuarapiranga was
the subject o fthe only revised objective o f the WQPCP. See Annex One on the focus
group recollectiono fproject design.

2.12     InParana, the central issuewas flood controlandthe protectionoflow- and
moderate-income neighborhoods from the ravages o f seasonal flooding. Since its earliest
stages o f growth inthe 1950s, low income settlements beganto occupy the floodplains o f
the Iguaq6river systemthat drains the Curitiba city region. Inundations from the two
rivers cuttingthrough Curitiba affected 15,000 residents in 1991, leaving 1,500 homeless.
Floods had causeduntold loss and the city and state had spent tremendous sums in
recovery efforts over the past decades (Tucci, 2005). Hydrologic and flood control
efforts inParanaaimed to stabilize the floodplain. Retentiondams and holding canals
were coupled with an expanded ribbon o fpark lands around the city. This design
resulted insome resettlement, and greatly increased green spaces and parks on the
floodplains. Preventing return settlement on such areas has been a recurrent problem in
Latin American cities. Reflecting on Curitiba's strategy, the former mayor, quipped that
"nobody invades parks and soccer pitches."

2.13    The Espirito Santo project can be seen as abasin style designadapted to very
different circumstances. InVitbria, the designsought to improve connectionlevels,
especially for the poor, build up waste water treatment for boththe poor and coastal
areas, and improve water agency efficiency. Company performance was well below the
average for state water utilities inBrazil. Basinplanning and action was included, but
was not the most important focus o f attention. Attention to basinmanagement gradually
evolved inEspirito Santo as the project entered its secondphase. A key fact0.r also, as
pointed out inthe ICR, was that the project was over-dimensioned for the capacity o fthe
state at the time.

2.14    Studies financed bythe national component were designedto lay the groundwork
for legal reform and future basinprojects. Water resource atlases, diagnostics o fuse,
demand surveys, and other data gathering helped to form the basis for charging water and
to explore the basis for authority to grant water rights. Inshort, the national objective
took stock o f the water resources, gauged supply and demand ineach basin, and sketched
out the normative system to manage and govern water resources.

                                                   6


Addressing Poverty inWater Basins

2.15     Povertywas central to these water quality projects for reasons intrinsic to
residential circumstances ofthe urbanpoor. The poor face manyrisks when settling
illegally. They manage their vulnerability inpart by trading off the low cost o f land for
highvulnerability inriskyareas, for instance inflood plains o fCuritiba(and Belo
Horizonte) or, inthe case of Siio Paulo, prohibited areas such as the Guarapiranga
watershed. Second, because o f the difficult topography and highly dense patterns o f
settlement, connections for sanitation inslums are well below city-wide a~erages.~Lack
of improved sanitation hasbecome a central characteristic and determinant o f a slum area
(UNHabitat2004).

2.16     Thus, addressing the sanitation needs ofthe urban poor necessarily became
central to the approach and design o f the water quality projects. Accordingly, a great
deal o f time and resources were spent duringimplementationo f the projects inSiio Paulo
and Curitiba to work out the fine-grain operational issues involved inconnecting
individual residences or, where this was not feasible, to buildnew shelter with sanitary
connections for re-settled residents.

2.17     Alternative approachesmighthave followed conventional lines. For example,
standard approachesto shelter upgradingwere an option, but the choice o f target areas
would not normally coincide with water basins, nor deal with the economics and resource
allocation issues o fwater resource management. Basin approaches, on the other hand,
hadbeendeveloped ina larger, regional context, usually innon-urbanareas, and with
virtually no contact with the urbanpoor.

2.18     The poverty and water basin approach canbe seen as a hybrid, created to remedy
shortcomings from conventional sector-drivenproject work. The downside o f a hybridi s
the complexity o f management andpossible tradeoffs indepth and scope o fpolicy and
reform. Employment and economic development, an important dimension for urban
poverty alleviation, are mostly outside the scope o fbasinapproaches so far, while
emergingissues such as the proper role ofthe private sector andmechanisms for tradable
rights would likely pull attention and resources away from poverty issues in future
generations o fthese projects.

2.19     China, India, and Mexico have each chosen a water sector approach, and each can
show gains inwater quality management (World Bank and MoC 2005). But no country
has succeededas much as Brazil inthis combined approach, and it appears unlikelythat
none has gone much further by pursuing either purelywater or poverty separately (World
Bank 2004a; Comisi6nNacional de Agua de Mexico 2006).

2.20     Each o f the three cities (four when Belo Honzonte i s included), represents a data
point from which to assess the appropriateness o f design and efficacy o fprojects aimed at
improvingurbanwater quality. Eventhough the project concepts were well-received in



4. Thus inthe early 1990s, access to improved sanitation inSBo Paulo was 83.7 percent; inCuritiba 55.4
percent (Habitat 2006); and inVitoria (in 1994) around 9 percent (World Bank 2004b).

                                                       7


 the country, and they appear to emerge as best practice inthe sector, how well were they
 implemented?



 3. RhythmofImplementation-Pitfalls,
 Recovery,Innovation

 3.1     Although they followed markedly different trajectories, implementationineach o f
 the project cities - SZo Paulo, Curitiba, and Vit6ria - experienced a shifting velocity
 punctuated bypolitical change and project delay, followed by recovery and eventual
 progress. Partly for these reasons, each o f the projects took longer thananticipated to
 implement. Besides political disruptions, the projectshad to grapple with complex issues
 inlow incomesettlements. Implementationrequiredextraordinary patience ontheparto f
 sponsors (Brazilianauthorities and the Bank) and higher than average supervision costs
 (337 staff week^).^ Average supervision budget at the time was on the order o f 15 staff
 weeks and current Bankprojects budget only US$80,000, or about eight staff weeks,
 roughly one-third o f the total usedto supervise the SZo Paulo and Curitiba components.
 Yet, the projectproduced manyinnovativetechniques, for instance inmanagement o f
 low incomehouseholds. Also water quality was largely sustained or improved and a new
.and growing institutional fabric, o fboth agency and practice, was put inplace.

 Political Transitions

 3.2     All the projects ranan implementationroller coaster o fups and downs. One of
 the most important reasons for serious breaks inthe rhythm o f implementationwas the
 frequent turnover inpolitical administrations at the state and municipal levels. With the
 onset o f decentralization inthe early 1990s, municipal elections are held on a staggered
 schedule inrelation to elections for state office. The project cities experienced an average
 o f two mayoral and two gubernatorial changes over the seven to nine year lifetime o f the
 projects. (See Annex C on Project Time Lines.) InEspirito Santo, these changes
 contributedto a complete bifurcation o f the project into essentially two discreet periods.
 InS2oPaulo, the project documents were signed the veryweek that anew state
 government was about to take office, and according to local officials reflectingback on
 the project, perhaps a year was lost inbringingnew administrationofficials up to speed
 on its complexities. InParana, virtually every phase o fthe project was frozen with the
 accession to power of the new state government in2003. (The change o f state
 administrations inMinas Gerais was less traumatic for the project there. However, the
 fiscal crisis o f 1999 did engender arefusalby the Governor to meet the state's fiscal
 obligation, requiring substantial revisions inproject implementation.)


     ~




 5. The ICRs for each o f the projects containdetailed accounts for these and other delays as well as the
 corresponding numbers incosts and outputs. This report will focus on comparative perspective affordedby
 looking across project cities, if only to show the important extent to which initial conditions affect
 implementationo f widely accepted general principles.

                                                   8


3.3      Turnover and policy discontinuity is not uncommonindecentralized
governmental administrations, yet the risks posed to project implementation by changes
inlocalgovernment were not specifically identifiedduring appraisal.6 Bankteams took
steps to smooth the transitions, for instance through briefings and dialogue during "lame
duck" periods for outgoing and incoming administrations. But these transitions canbe
political blind spots andpotential pitfalls for Bank teams already dealingwith a large set
o f complex issues.

Social Issues and the Poor

3.4      A secondreasonfor disruptions inthe rhythm,ifnot delay, inthe cluster o f
projects was the attention to the detailed needs o f the poor. The participatorytechniques
o f consulting, explaining, andwinning the cooperation o fresidents were indispensable in
gaining access to work sites, to formulating small scale solutions and neighborhood
approaches, andto the smooth sequencing o f work. Eachof the stages o f work involved
repeated neighborhood, block, and household cluster meetings to confer with residents,
provide for temporary shelter, organize work gangs, and follow up with trouble shooting
and corrections. All o fthis entailed extensive participationo fbeneficiaries and attention
to details o f individual and block-by-block engineeringand construction to retrofit long-
standing dwellings.

3.5      InVitbria, workingwithlowincomeneighborhoodswas amorecentralfeature of
the critical pathto project objectives -thepoor constituted nearlyhalfo fthe project
beneficiaries, eventhough the target was higher (World Bank 2004b) -but managing
work inslum areas was not the most important reason for delay. InVitbria, intentions to
reach the poor with water and sanitation hook-ups were, for reasonsunrelated to the poor,
diverted into programs to buildtreatment plants. So skewed was the process -because o f
the inappropriately large scale, financial improprieties, and mismanagement by state
agencies- that the initial years o f the project resulted inseriously underutilized treatment
plantsthat were unconnected to households, low andmiddleincome alike.7

3.6      With the 1997restructuringofthe project inEspirito Santo, attentionwas once
again directed to slum areas. Direct contact and educational efforts were mountedto
explain to low income households the reasons for a 70 percent tariff increase, as well as
the benefits and responsibilities o f sewerage connections. But these efforts were not
successful inconvincing large numbers o f low income customers to meet additional
hook-up costs charged by the water company. Instead, manyresidents continue to use
storm drains for sewage. Municipal government, not the water company, has
responsibility for enforcinghookups, and political will inthe municipality neededfor
enforcement has wavered over the years. Accordingly, while the poor are better off
because o fwater connections, the watershed continues to absorb sewage.




6. The appraisal report does mentionpoliticalconsiderations, but does not specifically identify change in
state government as a source of disruption.

7. See the ICR, World Bank 2004, for detailed accounts

                                                      9


Discovery,Learning, and Innovation

3.7     The innovativenature o f the urbanbasin approach was one o f the mainreasons
why notable insights, lessons, and innovations emergedduringthe course o f
implementation. Some of these insights-techniques for on-site upgrading in SZo Paulo,
the conversion o f floodplains into parkways andball fields (for instance for soccer and
volleyball) and the swapping o f land to complete ribbons o fparkway along urbanriparian
areas inCuritiba, and citizen groups inGuarapiranga - were converted directly into
project gains inthe form o f short cuts or innovations that are beingusedmore widely
today. S5o Paulo also produced advanced educational materials about solid waste and
sanitation. The materials are inuse today inthe environmental education center for
school-aged children financed bythe project andbuiltnear slum areas. The rehabilitation
o fpoor urban areas inGuarapiranga i s a 2004 award winner inthe UNBest Practices.*

3.8     Curitiba was inventive duringthis periodas well. The city focused on education
inschoolsto raise children's awarenessas atechnique to educatetheir parents, thevoting
citizens, about the importance o f rivers inthe city. Curitiba's program "Trash that i s not
Trash" i s an ingenious system that provides incentives and support to youngsters inlow
income areas to bag and recycle trash where collectiontrucks are unable to circulate.

3.9     Another insighton the nature ofwater quality and pollution inriver ways in
Curitiba (and inBelo Horizonte) resulted from research conducted duringthe course o f
implementation. These studies generated solid evidence that the problem o f water quality
was duejust partly to industrial waste. To the contrary, water quality issues were almost
entirely the result o fhumansewage. These findings reaffirmedthe strategy o f
incorporatingthe poor into project objectives and design. Water quality could not be
achieved inthese basins without attending to sewerage generated by low income
settlements.

3.10    At the national level, the project also developed apractical application o fresults-
based outcomes inthe form o f grants for pollutionreduction (See accompanying Box).


ChangingBehaviorsby BuyingReductionRather than Payingfor Treatment

One o f the best examples of new techniques that arose from the basin approach i s the change in
incentives for local government officials concerning pollution control. The former head o f the
Agencia Nacional de Aguas (ANA), the national water authority, championed a legal provisionto
dramatically shift incentives o f local officials inrelation to water quality. Grants were offered to
cities inproportion to reductions o f pollutants innearby water bodies. The effect o f this provision
radically changed behavior o f state and local officials. Rather than maximizing costs o f treatment
plants for which mayors sought financing from federal authorities, mayors were now induced to
minimize pollutants inorder to win pollution reduction grants (Margulis, et. al. 2002).




8. UnitedNations Best Practices Awards are selected on a biannualbasis by UN-Habitat to recognize
outstanding practice in different fields of economic and social development. Award winners compete with
hundredsofnominees submitted by governments, NGOs, and private sector. See www.unbestpractice.org.

                                               10


Institutions,Rules, and Agencies

3.11    Bringingthe new institutionalapparatusto life was to beginwith studies,
analyticalwork, and data gathering to be implementedunder the national component o f
the SZio Paulo and ParanhProject. Data and information on hydrologicregimes were
synthesized inatlases and other documents to help inform committee deliberations.

3.12    Inthe courseofimplementation, newperspectives andfindingsprompteda shift
inthe specific topics to becovered. The urbancircumstances andusesofwater varied
widely from basinto basin. Some were heavily agricultural, others had industrial
demands, still other stretcheswere primarily residential. Importantly, officials beganto
realizethat not all basins neededcommittees. Analytical work also developed an overall
framework o fthe water resource system for Brazil. The structure eventually became the
basis for the national water act, Law 9433 of 1997.

3.13    The nationalcomponent also established abridge to fbture projects by
investigatingthe status and circumstances o f selected water basins. Perhapsthe most
important o fthese i s the Paraibado Sul, a water basin that connects S5o Paulo, Rio de
Janeiro, and Minas Gerais states. Other basins includedwere inS5o Paulo (Piracicaba),
Pernambuco (Recife) and Bahia.

Borrower and Bank Performance

3.14    Onthe whole, these projects might serve as poster ads for the Bankmaxim o f
sensitivity to client demand and comparative advantage. Since their inception, Bank staff
working with sector specialists inBrazil formulated the approach andworked together
through turbulence and adversity. For example, Brazilian interlocutors were uncertain
about the institutional home for the project, and country officials were dividedabout how
to handle the legal status o f squatters inthe protected watershed. Bothcountry officials
and the Bank were patient; both endureddelays and setbacks; bothmade goodjudgments
intechnical andtactical areas. They changedcourse whennecessary, for instance inthe
discovery that pollution was mainly from residential, rather than industrial, sources and in
restructuringthe project inEspirito Santo. They agreed to split off Minas Gerais, making
it a separateproject, when it movedforward quickly inthe first year. Extensive
supervision (337 staffweeks) was requiredand suppliedby the Bank.

3.15    At the same time, the Bank sometimes jumped around inconsistently onmatters
o fpriority inpolicy. For instance, inthe middleo fproject implementation, the Bank
beganto show apredilectionfor a greater role for the private sector ininfrastructure and
services. This came as an unwelcome surprise to counterpart agencies strugglingto finish
works under pressure o f difficult circumstances o f intergovernmental political struggles,
policy change, andthe complexities o f low income settlements. Next from the Bank came
a new emphasis on poverty. And as implementation was already well advanced,
introduction of new prescriptions and requests for data was more o f an irritant than a new
policy insight.

3.16    Incomparisonto engineeringsolutions, the Bank gave too little attention to
educational and behavioralissues o f low income residents affected by the projects.

                                                11


Though it is difficult to measure this by spending alone, social and educational programs
rangefrom a few percentage points insomeprojects to nearly a quarter of total project
costs inpresent day poverty reduction andmunicipal reform projects such as the Viver
Melhor inBahia.


4.        Outcomes-Legacy Framework

4.1      The outcomes ofthe project canbe seen inlarge and small perspective, including
policy gains at the national and local levels, completiono fproject components inkeeping
with design, as well as with respect to poverty, greater local government sensitivity and
sustainedaction along with effective participationby the poor inupgrading, relocation,
and sanitation services. The evaluative outcomes are summarized inTable 4.1 and,
together with overall outcomes, explained later inthis section.


                    Sdo Paul0               Parand                    Espirito Santo

Efficacy  .         Policy measures         Policy measures           Water company efficiency
                    achieved; water         achieved; flood control   improved; coverage
                    quality improved;       achieved                  improved; sanitation
                    services improved                                 improved

Efficiency          Post hoc data on        Likely that property and  No data to add to ICR.
                    property values         recreational values are
                    suggest higher          higher than estimated.
                    returns than            No unforeseen costs.
                    estimated originally.
                    No unforeseen costs

Monitoring/         National component financed data acquisition; state basins using data;
Evaulation          quality measures also being routinely tracked by each state.

                                                                                               I




Institutional             and agency reforms in all three states suggest that basin approach  I
                ~~ I Legal
Development         and institutional systems have taken root and are maturing                I

Efficacy

4.2      The cluster ofprojects achieved its over-riding objective o f addressing issues of
water quality and poverty from the standpoint o f urban watersheds. Indoing so, the Bank
helpedto launch an innovation that presaged the focus on MillenniumDevelopment
Goals (MDGs).Water resource management, water quality, and poverty alleviation were
tied together into a single package o f interventions. The multiplesocial and natural
resource objectives are so tightly intertwinedthat these projects have come to represent
archetypes for each individual sector. Guarapiranga for instance i s seen by the Cities

                                               12


Alliance as one o f the great success stories insquatter upgrading, even though the project
i s much more than that. Similarly, the river basin approach i s a bellwether inthe Bank's
water resource literature (it is cited frequently inWorld Bank 2004a) even though much
of its success depends on having dealt effectively with low income settlements.

4.3      Itis also important to notethat the concept anddesign ofthese projects emerged
from a long and rich dialogue with policy specialists and practitioners inthe sector. The
IEGEvaluationMission encounterednumerous observations by Brazilian specialists who
compliment the Bank for its steady partnership andrisk-takinginthis cluster o fprojects.

4.4      At the nationallevel, Brazilhas experienced a sea change inattitude anddebate
about water resource management. The issue i s not whether, but how, and under what
circumstances to take decisions and action on water resource allocation andpricing.
Senior government officials and Bank field staff point out that the current administration
has adopted a distinctly municipalist interpretation o f federalism, meaning that political
support and benefit o f the doubt are accorded to municipal governments indisputes
between cities and states. This federal position insome ways weakens the basin
approach, becausemany issues -for instance, rightsto water, disputes over charges,
productiono f municipal waste -spill over from one municipality to another, and the
advantage o f exerting a leveling influenceo f states i s reduced under the municipalist
orientation. Infavoring local authorities, the present administrationreduces the mediating
influence o f states and accentuates the inherentlyunequal data, expertise, power, and
responsibilityo f municipal stakeholders on water boards.

4.5      The institutional"freeze" inParana-that i s the complete suspension o f legal
and institutionalsteps to create a water basin boardby the present state administration -
canbe seen as a reaction to the problem of asymmetries indata, knowledge, and
expertise. State authorities felt that they neededto strengthen the hand o f cities and
communities on the water board. With time, the informationand other gaps will be
narrowed, but the disparities complicate the business o f basincommittees and threaten to
compromise the quality o f outcomes. These problems o f asymmetries will not be solved
easily under the current approach o f federalism nor, as suggestedinMexico, Colombia,
and Argentina, will they go away quickly with aretrenchment incentral powers (see
chaptersby Mizrahi and Selee inTulchin and Selee 2004 and Campbell 2003).

Sustainability

4.6      Butwhile anewpolicy approach is beinginstitutionalized, the view of senior
officials and sector specialists i s that muchwork remains to be done. Many committees
have beenformed and authorized, but they have not begunto function routinely. Water
charges for abstraction and pollution remain to be refined, appropriate arrangements are
still beingworked out for public-private partnerships ininfrastructure, and some
observers feel that rules needto be agreedregardingtradable rights. Others feel that
more focus is requiredon heavy consumers o fwater and to managingdemand (Port0
2003). The current long term policy goals inBrazil -tradeable water rights and greater
private sector roles -are logical extensions o fthe original set first address with this
cluster inthe early 1990s.

                                                13


4.7      At the state and local levels, the sustainable aspects ofthe projects can be
measured inpart by a growing focus on environmental, educational, andplanning
activities. Each o fthe states and main cities involved inthis cluster has completed the
major civil works and other physical goals inconnections and treatment. Attention has
turnedto educating consumers about demand(Espirito Santo), the importance ofusing
water correctly (Paranh, S5o Paulo), ofkeepingsolid waste separate from the drainage
system (Paranh, Si30 Paulo, Minas Gerais). Sao Paulo city officials are continuing the
upgradingprogram, extending it to more slum areas. And all the states have begun action
or taken steps to further implement the basincommittees or planningon a regionalbasis.
(See Table 4.2 for an update o f the situationineach state since the time that ICRs were
completed.)

Table4.2. What is New andDifferent:UpdatingICRs
Project                      Espirito          Parand         Si40 Paulo     Minas Gerais
                              Santo
PhysicalWorks
Water, Sewerage,            Continued       More attention
flood, and SW              improvement       to education
Environment
Parks, reforestation       Incorporation    Consolidation   Environmental
                             into plan      of park lands     education
                              making
Poverty
Urban Rehab                 Municipal            NIA          Continued         Owner
                           government                        progress on       Occupier
                            education                         upgrading.     Investments in
                             program                            Owner          shelter and
                                                               occupier      neighborhoods
                                                            improvements
Management
Basin                       Long term       Revived basin     Expanding        Attention
                             planning         approach         scope of        shifting to
                            underway         under state     approach to       operational
                                               umbrella      entire metro      aspects of
                                                              watershed          basin
                                                                              manaaement

4.8     Development of the legal framework for water has evolved further insome states.
For instance, in SZio Paulo, special state laws were passedin2000 and 2005 concerning
Paraiba do Sul inconnection with water charges and a special law was enacted to further
amend regulations inGuarapiranga (Law 12.233). Statewater legislation relatedto basin
development has also beenenacted inParanh (Government o f Paranh2005) and Espirito
Santo (Government o f Espirito Santo 2004).

Efficiency-View fromthe Slums

4.9     It appears likely that residents inGuarapiranga havehelpedtake corrective and
preventiveactions to maintainwater quality, and evidence shows that low income
residents perceive the value o f these investments. Velez et. al. (2006) report data on
willingness to pay is well above average tariffs. Also, duringun-announced IEGMission
visits to slumareas inGuarapiranga, residents couldbe seen caring for community spaces

                                                     14


(sweepingstreets, attending to or usingpublic spaces like plazas and community centers),
usingtrash containers appropriately, andmakingsubstantial use of community facilities
inwhichindividualand community educationwere cond~cted.~is importantto note   It
that designtechniques, such as creating drivable carriageways over formerly garbage-
strewn arroyos, make it easier for residents to dispose o f trash and for municipal trash
vehicles to collect it.

4.10     Samples o fproperty values based on reported sales demonstrate substantial
increases since project completion inGuarapiranga. A private consultant familiar with
theproject compared sample residencesimmediately affected byworks within thefavela
with a group o fresidences 100m from favela works, and a third group outside the project
areabut inequivalentfavelas. The results demonstrate property value increases o f
between 25 and 50 percent for those within the affected zone compared to equivalent
properties not subjected to upgrading(COBRAPE 2006). Ifthese values were to hold for
the general population o f affected areas, the economic rate o f returnwould be
substantially higher than estimated at appraisal or at the completionreport stage. Similar
but anecdotal evidence (see photos o f slum areas inAnnex D) i s visible inParani(and
Minas Gerais).

MonitoringandWater Quality

4.11     Monitoring o fwater quality has beenmaintainedinall the states. Water quality
records for all three project areas demonstrate sustained levels, ifnot minor
improvements, despitepopulationincreases far exceeding those projected at the times o f
appraisal. InEspirito Santo, though treatment plants are still operating well below
capacity, water quality along coastal shores has beenmaintainedinkeeping with project
objectives. Similarly inGuarapiranga, the populationi s 50 percent higher than when the
project started, yet water quality has remained constant or slightly improved over that
period. Table 4.3 includes data on drainage inCuritiba because those civil works were
central to flood control inthat city.

Table4.3 -Water Quality Index* (and Drainage)by City
                                          1995        2000            2005
Guarapiranga Water intake
Actual                                     79          Na             Na
Target                                     82          63             NIA
Curitiba Alto Iguaqu
Actual                                     50          82              63
Drainage Actual**                         9.6         26.8            NIA
Drainage Target                            8          17.3            NIA
Vitoria*** Coastal waters
Carnburi Beach                            46           90              86
* :Water Quality Index Rankings:
0-25 = poor: 26-50 = bad: 51-70 = reasonable; 71-90 = good: 91-100= excellent
** :Drainage in kilometers completed (Brazil Water Quality ICR, p. 53)
*** : Percent of time acceptable averaged over four sampling areas (Espirito Santo ICR, p. 55)
N/A: Not applicable: Na not available



9. Of a half dozen community centers visited on a mid week morning, computer stations were
filled with young people focused on the screens.

                                              15


InstitutionalDevelopment

4.12     Hindsight now suggests that, at least to some degree, the patience shownby
borrower andthe Bank was rewarded. At the local level, state andmunicipal
governments have uniformly taken on board increased responsibilities for water quality
improvement, although the capacity to improve conditions i s uneven. Of equal
importance is the effort, engaged inby state and local governments ineach o fthe three
states (four counting Minas Gerais), to manage difficult environmental sanitation issues
inlow incomesettlements.

4.13     It appears that sensitization o fmunicipal govemments to their responsibilities in
managingsanitation and solid waste hasbeen effective, ifnot completely successful.
More data will be needed for Espirito Santo to be sure o fthis. But there i s little doubt in
Siio Paulo and Curitiba. The City o f Siio Paul0has institutionalizedthe slum-upgrading
approach it helped to develop inGuarapiranga and has transformed it into a major pillar
o f its shelter strategy (Franca 2000).

AdditionalNoteson EspiritoSanto

4.14     Partly or perhaps largely because a follow-on project is being implemented, many
operational objectives have been achieved. For example, unaccounted for water has been
reduced by a quarter (to 30.8 percent), sewerage coverage i s over 26 percent, and
financial targets are beingmet. Despite the focus on individualhousehold and system
inter-connections, however, the treatment capacity inVit6ria i s still under-utilizedby
more than a third. Further work is requiredto educate low income users about the
reasons for and necessity o f sanitation connections. Consumers are confused or unaware          >
that the 70 percent increase inwater tariffs was for this purpose. A persisting problem i s
that the water company, CESAN, i s dependent on the municipality to enforce sewage
hookups, especially on the periphery of the city. Byits own admission, CESANis not
good at cutting service to consumers delinquent inpayment. Completiono f the follow-on
project appears to be bringingthese imbalances into line.

4.15     The somewhat more operational objectives inVit6ria did not preventthe state
from advancing on the basin approach, due perhaps to the momentum generated by the
progress inthe national regulatory system, as well as by the existence o f the follow-on
project currently beingimplementedinthe state. The state has moved aheadwith
working basincommittees, contemplationo f charges, andthe elaboration o f 30 year plans
inkey areas, particularly for maintenance offorested areas andthe creation ofreservoirs
for future water supply.

4.16     It should also benotedthat the socio-economic andpolitical environment in
Espirito Santo i s much different today than it was at project closure. Inrelative terms, the
state has changed a great deal more than any o f the other states examined. Today,
partisan political influences appear to be greatly reduced. The economy has improved
with the onset o fpetroleumroyalties, and the financial standing o fthe state and its water
company are much stronger than when the project was being implemented. Water supply
i s not as important an issue. Rather, the central issues now are connecting households to
sewerage, completing systemintegration, and turning to basin management.

                                              16


Balancingthe Ledger

4.17     Balanced against these positive findingsi s a continuedpressure on water
resources generatedby continuedimmigration and settlement inprotected areas inSZo
Paulo, Curitiba (andBelo Horizonte). These circumstances are complicatedby uneven
topography inSZo Paul0 and disorganized settlement patterns innearly all the cities.
Although interventions inolder parts o f the settlements have rectifiedthe worst o f these
problems, new settlers (not necessarily inthe same basins) create the same kinds of
problems that promptedthe water basin and poverty approach launchedwith these
projects. Wastewater from new settlements, as well as from vast, as yet un-served,areas,
still enter the stonnwater drainage system, eventually reaching supply areas downstream.
                                                                .
4.18     At least one observer interviewed by the PPAR Missioncommented that control
over invasions couldhave beenmore effective, but at the time the Federal Water
Resources Law (9433 o f 1997) was being debated, amultitudeo f interests and lobby
groups (federations o f industries, associations, cooperatives, academia, and others)
crowded out discussion on control o fnew settlements. Mechanisms to help local
governments avoid suchproblems were either not developed or not inplace.

Parana: Breachof ContractRemedied

4.19     InParana, the implementationofvirtually all ofthe policy elements centralto the
project was frozen in2002 with accessionto power o f a new state government
administration. Eventhough these actions were entirely within the prerogative o fthe
state, freezing the policy and institutional apparatus was tantamount to breach o f contract
with the Bank.The state offered nojustification for takingthis action.

4.20     InIEGfield visits, state officials explainedthat the incomingadministrationtook
a quite different view o f water than its predecessor, seeing it as a social, rather than
economic, good. From this perspective, state policy also placed stronger emphasis on
water and sanitation as rightso f citizens. Social tariffs have been strengthened to buttress
this view andto ensure that all citizens are able to afford water. Conversely, itwas seen
as improper for the private sector to be as heavily represented on the basin committee as
originally proposed, becausethis would open the way for the private sector to "make
money off o f natural resources."

4.21     The Paranistate government hasnow resuscitatedthe basin approach,
reconfiguring the basin committee to give greater weight to public interests, particularly
the state itself. The state has passed legislation authorizingbasincommittees, and four
such committees are working. Water charges are authorized for 2007, and a statewide
plan i s inthe works for completion inMay o f 2007.

5. Ratings

5.01     Although outcomes have been sustained, or even exceededthose set inthe
appraisal documents, none o f the outcomes compels a change inthe principal ratings for
either of the projects. A gray area, however, emerges inthe case o f Espirito Santo, where

                                                   17


a follow-up project i s presentlyunderway. The current projebt i s addressing some o fthe
issues that were cited inthe ICRand ES, notably with respect to institutional
development. A key issue inthe "negligible" institutionaldevelopment ratingwas the
poor performance o f CESAN, the state water company. Updated figures indicate much
improved institutionalstrength compared to the starting point in 1998.

                                        PrincipalRatings

                                           ICR'                       ES'                    PPAR

WATER QUALITY ANDPOLLUTIONCONTROL PROJECT (LOANS                3503-BR, 3504-BR, 3505-BR TO THE
STATES OF SA0 PAUL0 AND PARANA)

Outcome                                 Satisfactory              Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Sustainability                            Likely                     Likely                  Likely
Institutional Development Impact        Substantial               Substantial             Substantial
Bank Performance                        Satisfactory              Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                    Satisfactory              Satisfactory            Satisfactory

ESP~RITO    SANTOWATERCOASTAL     POLLUTION    MANAGEMENT       PROJECT    (LOAN3767-BR)

Outcome                                 Satisfactory              Moderately              Moderately
                                                                  Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Sustainability                            Likely                     Likely                  Likely
Institutional Development Impact         Negligible               Negligible               Negligible
Bank Performance                        Satisfactory              Satisfactory            Satisfactory
Borrower performance                  Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactow

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently
verify the findings of the ICR.



6. LessonsinDevelopmentEffectiveness-
SmallBricksandGiantStepsinUrban
Infrastructure

6.01      Many themes mentioned inthis assessmenthave been covered previouslyin
ICRs, and for the most part, those observations holdup inlight ofthe data and findings
from this review. For instance, the ICRshave mentioned: (i) importance o ftreating
                                                                         the
the institutional and environmentalobjectives as long term program areas, rather than
projects, and this requires persistence, patience, and follow up by the Bank; (ii)            that
integrated approaches work well, for the most part, with low income settlements; (iii)                 that
the hybridapproachrepresents a useful model for Brazil and elsewhere; and (iv) that
metropolitanplanninginBrazil requires urgent attention. Additional observations are
covered in,the ICRsrelative to the operational side o f project units andbasin committees,
the need to improve public information, and the importance o fbaseline data and

                                                18


monitoring. The present evaldation aims to gauge the appropriateness o f the hybrid
approach andto draw lessons about the next steps for the Bankinthese sectors o fBrazil.

6.02    The projects reviewedhere suggestthat for a large, technically competent
borrower like Brazil, the nature o f the policy objectives set inthis cluster - i.e.,
fundamental, wide-reaching, and long term -were appropriate for the country. The
outcomes o f the project show that Brazil responded by setting inmotion a process o f
institutionbuilding.Muchhas been achieved, including an emerging agreement ofwhat
comes next for Brazil inwater resources, for instance tradeable rights and a stronger
private sector role. But decades more work i s needed to realize the full potential of the
present basin approach without taking on larger issues. And though the hybridmodel
developed with this cluster o fprojects presaged the focus on MillenniumDevelopment
Goals, it i s much less clear what i s next for urbanpoverty inrelation to water and
sanitation.

6.03    Becausethis cluster o fprojects was implementedincomplex metropolitan
settings, the policy achievements are all the more noteworthy. Parallel achievements in
water resource management inSpain, France, and the UnitedStates took place largely
before urbanization hadbecome as pronounced as it was inBrazil when these projects
were launched. China, India, and Mexico have yet to tackle the issues o fmetropolitan
water quality ina frontal way. All o f these countries and scores more are facing growing
pressure to find solutions to metropolitanmanagement. The water basin approach is one
method, urgent, convenient, and operationally relevant, to address area-wide issues. The
experience o f this cluster demonstrates some o f the key features, as well as successes and
limitations o f this approach.

6.04    The singular feature o fthe hybridapproach is the extent to which the projects
integrated, even dependedupon, low income settlements. This cluster demonstrates that
the solution to improved quality o fwater resources inurban areas is highly synonymous
with solutions for poverty, at least inthe project cities. Reachingobjectives inwater
resources and inpoverty alleviation required improvements inthe environmental
circumstances o f the urbanpoor and vice versa.

6.04    The drawbacks o fthe hybridapproach, inturn, arethe complexity o fmanagement
andpossible tradeoffs indepth and scope o fpolicy reform. For instance, employment and
economic development are central to poverty alleviation inurban settings, but these
objectives lie mostly outside the scope o fbasin approaches so far. In the water sector,
thoughmuchwork remains to be completedto consolidate reforms, new and emerging
issues also require attention, such as the proper private sector role inwater management
and tradable water rights.These issues may draw attention and resources away from
poverty issues in hture generations o fhybridprojects.

6.05    A t the same time, no separate project approach-neither slum upgrading, nor
water supply and sanitation alone -has succeeded any better on purelywater quality
objectives as this cluster o fhybrids. More importantly, the cluster experience contributed
to a better understanding o f how to manage difficult inter-sectoral issues involving the
many actors inmetropolitan cities o f Brazil. For example, the projects suggest it i s
important to maintain a division o f labor between states and localities inthe planning,

                                                19


4
  capital investment, and maintenance. Also, the projects illustrate the importance o f
 maintaining a prudent distance betweentechnical issues o fplanning andeconomics on
 the one hand, and the political sphere inwhich priorities and budgetsare decided, on the
  other, althoughthis i s not always possible. Long term dedication to large goals, however,
 hasnevertheless helpedto move Brazil into a prominent positionwith respect to water
 resource management inlarge urbanareas among leading Bank clients -China, India,
  and Mexico among them.

  6.06    These and other countries are insearch o fpolicy and practical solutions to
  complex coordination and governance issuesthat involve competing agencies and blurry
 institutional rules inmetropolitanareas. One o fthe most important lessons from this
 review is that the fusion o fpoverty andwater basin components into a single approach
 created a new stage on which technical and policy agents could work out complex
 problems ina coherent framework. The hybridsbrought key actors, each technically
 competent intheir own domain, but with little or no prior experience inthe allied sectors
  such as social work, anthropology, and community organization, into a common
 problem-solving mode.

  6.07    Intacklingtechnical planningissues, theprojectssolvedone ofthetwobig
 problems inmetropolitangovernance. Large metropolitan areas must solve the technical
  issues o f economic evaluation and planning. Second, they must decide priorities and
 budgets.This cluster ofprojects managed the technical issues o f economics, for instance
  ofpricingwater and evaluating project options. But inthe second, political sphere, this
  experience inmetropolitanplanningwas not encumbered with political representation o f
 democratic assemblies inpriority setting and budgetingmaking. The mainbusiness at
 hand was problem solving of engineering, design, logistics, and construction. The
 circumstances inthe project cities -broad      agreement on the definition o f the problem, a
  collaborative working environment -allowed technical agents to succeed. It i s worth
 considering whether and how this hybridapproach can be exploited inthe current and
 prospective conditions inBrazil and elsewhere.

 6.08     Inthese sectors at least, the country is at a strategic crossroads. Ithasmoved
 beyond the simple split o fwater projects that include the poor or slum upgradingprojects
 that emphasize water. What i s more, the developmental issues for Brazil are definedby
 the country team interms o fparadigmchange, for instance, shifting the regulatory
  framework to accommodate wider array o fproperty rights and private sector involvement
 indevelopment. The cluster ofprojects took important steps inthis directionand
 constitutes a feasibility test showing that policy issues linkingpoverty reduction, the
 provision o fbasic services, and environmental improvement at the regional scale or
 larger canbe successfully tackled together.

 6.09     The projects also show that complex undertakings do not have to be Christmas
 trees. But to keep projects from becomingunmanageable or broken, clear policy
 objectives are needed, and the Bank and borrower need to be committed for several, even
 many, decades. The cluster o fprojects ran longer than expected and Brazil i s still far
 from consolidating its institutionalobjectives o fwater allocation machinery. Accurate
 technicaljudgment was provided by expert, senior professionals inBrazil and inthe
 Bank, andboth parties were patient inproject implementation. All o f this illustrates a

                                               20

                                                                                              *

'point made earlier inICRs, that the route to meet borrower demand for large scale issues
 entails a higher order o f intensity inconsultation and higher than usual preparation and
 supervisioncosts.

6.10     Also, a wider array o fproject management skills and analytical expertise, for
instance inpolitical economy, i s neededto manage risks o f long term engagements. These
contextual factors - and particularlythe approach to federalism inBrazil-will continue to
influencethe policy choices and speed o f advance o f the Bankpartnership with Brazil.
The Bank cantake steps to keeppolitical transitions andpartisandisruptions from
becomingblindspots. Bank management should provide guidance to task managers about
gauging these risks, to help spot the likelihood o f disruption, and to provide techniques -
such as multi-partybriefings duringand immediately before project launchat mid-term
reviews -to educate oppositiongroups and the public on the issues, difficulties, and
merits ofthe project.

 6.11    One of the richest lessons from this assessment, finally, concerns the perceptions
 andjudgments o fhighlevelprofessionals who managed the course o fproject
 implementation. Institutional actors were given the scope to form and agree on core
 values. They were given or took the power to carry forward lessons learned, modifying or
 sustaining the course o f work, or redefiningthe objective as new problems and
 circumstances arose. Focus group members, reflecting on this process, pointed out that
 players started with drastically uneven levels o f information. The same point can be made
 for the newly formed basin committees. This asymmetry inparticipant knowledgeand
 informationrequiredrepeated cycles o f learning, especially for the state project units
 after new administrations took office. But little structured learningwas available to them,
 andvirtually none was provided for basincommittee membersstrugglingwith decisions
 over resource allocation and pricing. More structured learningmay be useful inthe
 course o fpreparation and implementation for bothproject units and basin committees.

                                           21


References


Campbell, T., 2003
       The Quiet Revolution. Decentralization and L e Rise of Pa :ical
       Participation in Latin American Cities. Pittsburgh: University o f Pittsburgh
       Press.

COBRAPE, 2006
       "Partial Analysis O fThe Results O f The Real Estate Evaluation O fFavelas And
       Subdivisions InGuarapiranga And Billings." processed. COBRAPE. S5o Paulo,
       Brazil

Comisi6nNacional de Agua de Mexico, 2006
       Fourth "World Water Forum. Regional Document: Americas. Local Actions for
       Local Challenge. Mexico: DF: Comisi6nNacional de Agua.

Franqa, Elisabete, ed., 2000
       Guarapiranga. Urban and EnvironmentalRehabilitationinthe City o f S5o Paulo.
       S5o Paulo, Brazil: MCarrilho Arquitetos. 256 pp.

Government o f State of Espirito Santo, 2004
       State Law 7943. Subdivisions o f Land for Urban and Other Uses. Vitbria,
       Espirito Santo: Government o f Espirito Santo.

Government of the State o fParanB, 2005
       Preliminary Diagnostic of Present and Future Water Basins and Integrated System
       o f Water Supply for the MetropolitanRegion o f Cuitiba. Curitiba: State
       Governor Parani. 51pp.

Margulis, SCrgio, GordonHughes, Martin Gambrill, Gabriel Azevedo, 2002
       "Brazil: ManagingWater Quality. Mainstreamingthe Environment inthe Water
       Sector." World Bank Technical Paper 532. Environment Series. Washington,
       DC: World Bank.

Porto, Monica, 2003
       "Recursos Hidricos e Saneamentona Regi5o Metropolitana de Sao Paulo:" Um
       Desafio do Tomanho da Cidade." Serie Agua Brasil 3. Brasilia: Banco Mundial

Tucci, Carlos, 2004
       "Flood Management inCuritibaMetropolitan Area" inWorld Meteorological
       Association and Global Water Partnership. Associated Programon Flood
       Management.

Tulchin, J. and A. Selee, eds., 2004

                                          22


       Decentralization and Democratic Governance in Latin America. Woodrow
       Wilson Center Reports on the Americas. 12. Latin America Program.
       Washington, DC: Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.

UNHabitat, 2006
       State of the World's Cities 2006/7. MillenniumDevleopment Goals andUrban
       Sustainability. Nairobi: UN-Habitat and Earthscan.

UNHabitat, 2004
       State of the World's Cities 200412005. Globalization andUrbanCulture.
       Nairobi: UN-Habitat and Earthscan.

Velez, Carlos, F.Lobato da Costa, M.Gambrill, P. Pini, 2006 (inprocess)
       "Saneamento Abmiental Urbano: Conceitos e Aprendzados do Project Qualidade
       das Aguas e Contrle da PoluicZio Hidnca-PQA      ," Sene Agua B r a d 9. Brasilia,
       Brazil: Banco Mundial.

World Bank, 2006
       Brazil: CeariUrbanDevelopment and Water Resources Management Project (Ln3789-
       BR)and Ceara Water Resources Management PilotProject (Ln4190-BR), Pilot-
       PROGERZRH Project Performance Assessment Report 36591. IEG. Washington
       DC: WorldBank.

World Bank, 2004a
       "Water Resources Sector Strategy - Strategic Directions for World Bank
       Engagement." Washington, DC: World Bank.

            ,2004b
       Implementation Completion Report (CPL 37670), Espirito Santo Water and
       Coastal PollutionManagement Project. Report 27848. Washington, DC: World
       Bank.

            , 2 0 0 4 ~
       ImplementationCompletion Report (CPL 35030 and CPL 35050), States o f SBo
       Paulo and Parani and for the Federal State o f Brazil for Water Quality and
       Pollution Control Project. Report 28962. Washington, DC: World Bank.

            ,2000
       Implementation CompletionReport (CPL 35540), Minas Gerais Water Quality
       and Pollution Control Project. Report 20329. Washington, DC: World Bank.

            ,1992
       Staff Appraisal Report, Brazil Water Quality and PollutionControl Project ( S o
       Paulo andParanit). Report 15023. Washington, DC: World Bank.

                                         23


           ,1994
      Staff Appraisal Report, Espirito Santo Water and Coastal PollutionManagement
      Project. Report 12709. Washington, DC: World Bank.

           ,1992
      StaffAppraisal Report, Minas Gerais Water Quality and PollutionControl
      Project. Report 10805. Washington, DC: World Bank.

World Bank, 1993
      "Water ResourcesManagement: A World Bank Policy Paper. Washington, DC:
      World Bank."

World Bank and Ministryo f Construction (MoC), People's Republic o f China, 2005
      North China Water Quality Management Study. SummaryReport. EASUR.
      Washington, DC: World Bank.


                                          25


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTIONCONTROLPROJECT,                      sa0PAUL0AND
PARANA(LOANS 3503-BR,3504-BR,3505-BR)

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                       Appraisal      Actual or      Actual as % of
                                        Estimate   Current estimate     Appraisal
                                                                        estimate
Total project costs                      261.9          338.6              129
Credit amount                            119.0          118.9               99
Cofinancing
Cancellation


CumulativeEstimatedandActual Disbursements
                     FY93   FY94    FY95     FY96    FY97      FY98   FY99     FYOO
Appraisal             20.5  52.4    84.6     107.8   119.0     119.0  119.0    119.0
estimate (US$M)
Actual (US$M)         0.6   2.6      11.6    42.5     71.7     94.5   110.5    118.9
Actual as % of        3.1   4.9      13.8    39.5     60.2     79.4   92.9     99.9
appraisal

Date of final disbursement:  11/20/2002


Proiect Dates
                                             Original                 Actual
Initiating memorandum                       05/02/1991              05/02/1991
Negotiations                                05/26/1992              05/26/1992
Board approval                              07/02/1992              07/02/1992
Signing                                     06/28/1994               12/17/1992

Effectiveness                               0912811994              0511711993
Closing date                                09/30/1997               12/31/2002

                                       26


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                         ActualVLatestestimate
                           No of staff weeks                  US$ (`000)
Preappraisal                     n.a.                           n.a.
Appraisal                        n.a.                           ma.
Negotiations                     n.a.                           n.a.
Supervision                     299.26                        1,101.802
Other                            n.a.                           n.a.
Total                           336.66                        1,190.476

                                           27


Mission Data*
               Date           No. of  Specializations represented             Performance
          (month/year)       persons                                             Rating
                                                                            Imple.
                                                                           Dev.
                                                                           progress
                                                                           objective
IdentificationlPreparation
    Feb 1991
    July 1991
    Sept 1991
    Oct 1991
AppraisallNegotiation
    Feb 1992
Supervision
   Feb 1993                       1  Engineer                                  1       1
  Apr 1993                       4   Economist, Engineer, Env Sp,             2        1
                                     ProcurementAssistant
  Oct 1993                        3  Engineer (2), Economist                  2        1
  Dec 1993                        1  Engineer                                  I       1
  Feb 1994                        2  Division Chief, Engineer                 2        1
  May 1994                       2   PR Engineer,Engineer                     2        1
  Aug 1994                        3  Economist, PR Engineer, Engineer         U        S
  Dec 1994                        3  Sr. Anthropologist, PR Engineer,         U        S
                                     Engineer
  Feb 1995                        1  PR Engineer                              U        S
  Sept 1995                       2  Anthropologist,Water Engineer            U        S
  Dec 1995                        5  Water Engineer(3), FinancialAnalyst,     U        S
                                     ProcurementAnalyst
  June 1996                      4   Engineer (2), FinancialAnalyst,          S        S
                                     ProcurementAnalyst
  Oct 1996                        2  Economist, Engineer                      S        S
  Dec 1996                        2  Engineer (2)                             S        S
  Sept 1997                       1  Engineer                                 S        S
  May 1998                        5  TTL(SP), PSP, Social Specialist,         U        S
                                     Engineer,TTL (P)
  Sept 1998                       1  TM (Economist)                           S        S
  Dec 1998                        3  TM, Social Scientist, Water Economist     S       S
  May 1999                        3  TM, Engineer, Socia; Expert              S        S
  Oct 1999                       4   TM, Water Engineer, Engineer              S       S
  Jun 2000                        3  TM, Engineer, Social Specialist           S       S
   Dec 2000                       5  TM, Co-TM, Social Dev. Sp. Sector         S       S
                                     Manager, Sr Water Resources Engineer
   June 2001                      2  TM, Engineer                              S       S
   Nov 2001                       2  TM, Engineer                              S       S
ICR
   June 2002                      1  TM                                        S       S

                                         28



ESP-TO SANTO WATERCOASTALPOLLUTION MANAGEMENT                           PROJECT
(LOAN 3767-BR)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                      Appraisal       Actual or      Actual as % of
                                      Estimate     Current estimate     Appraisal
                                                                        estimate
Total project costs                     308.0           182.9               59
Credit amount                           154.0           I 12.5              73
Cofinancing
Cancellation


CumulativeEstimated andActualDisbursements
                 FY95   FY96  FY97   FY98  FY99    FYOO    FYOl   FY02  FY03   FY04
Appraisal         41.4  72.0  104.6 134.6  149.6   154.0   154.0 154.0  154.0  154.0
estimate
(US$M)
Actual            4.0    14.5 45.6   71.7  77.0     81.7   81.7   95.5  109.6  112.5
(US$M)
Actualas %of      9.6   20.1  43.6   53.3  51.5     53.1   53.1   62.0   71.2   73.1
appraisal

Date of final disbursement:  2/6/2004


Project Dates
                                            Original                  Actual
Initiating memorandum                      03/15/1993                03115/1993
Negotiations                               04/11/I994                04111/I994
Board approval                             06/28/1994                06/28/1994
Signing                                    10/28/1994                10/28/1994
Effectiveness                              01/31./1995               12119/1994
Closing date                               12/31/1999                06/30/2003

                                              29


Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
                                                 Actoal/Latest estimate
                                  No of staff weeks                         US$ (`000)
PreappraisaVpreparation                 63.6                                 316.0

AppraisaVnegotiation                    49.5                                  179.9

Supervision                             185.8                                946.0

Completion                              13.2                                  41.2

Total                                   312.1                                1483.1



MissionData

 I              Date            No. of   Specializations represented           Performance
          (month/year)          persons                                            Rating
                                                                             Imple.
                                                                            Dev.
                                                                            progress
                                                                            objective
IdentificationlPreparation
    IdentificationNovember 1992     4    TM(Ec),WP Sp, Seep, Env.Eng.
    PreparationFebruary1993         1    EnvEng.
    PreparationApril 1993           2    TM (Ec), Ec
    PreparationMay 1993             4    TM (Ec), EnvSp, FA & Ec., EnvEng.,
    PreappraisalJuly 1993           6    TM (Ec),WR Eng., EnvSp,FA & Ec.,
                                         EnvEng., Ec

AppraisallNegotiation
    Appraisal November 1993         7    TM (Ec), FA., Ec.,EnvSp., FA &
                                         Ec., EnvEng.,
Supervision
   November-December                3    TM (Ec), P, D                         HS     HS
   LaunchWorkshop
   March 1995                       3    TM (Ec), Eng.EnvS                     HS     HS
   July 1995                        2    TM (Ec), P                             S     S
   February 1996                    1    TM (Ec)                                U     S
  April-May 1996(Wash. DC)          2    TM (Ec), Eng                           U     S
  August 1996                       3    TM (Ec), FA, SanEng                    U     S
   November1996                     2    TM (Ec), Eng                           S     S
  June 1997                         1    TM (Ec)                                U     S
  October 1997                      3    TM(Ec), SanEng, Eng                    U     S
  March 1998                        2    TM (Ec), Eng                           U     U
  May-June 1998                     7    TM (Ec), Eng, EnvSp, Ec, PSD, FA, P    U     U
  Mid-Term Review
  September 1998                    I    TM (Ec)                                U     U
  November1998                      3    TM (Ec), Eng, FA                       U     U
  February 1999                     3    TM (Ec), Eng, PSD                      U     U
  May 1999                          2    TM (Ec), Eng                           S     S
  October-November 1999             2    TM (Ec), Eng                           U     U
  January-February2000              3    TM (Ec), Eng, P                        S     S
  May-June2000                      3    TM (Ec), Eng,SS                        S     S
  November2000                      2    CoTM (Eng),P                           S     S

                                                      30


               Date                    No. of    Specializations represented              Performance
           (month/year)              persons                                                   Rating
                                                                                        Imple.
                                                                                      Dev.
                                                                                      progress
                                                                                      objective
    January-February2001                    3     SecM, TM (Ec), Eng                       s        s
    June 2001                               2    TM (Ec), CoTM (Eng)
    October2001                             3    TM (Ec), CoTM (Eng), Eng
    March 2002                              3    TM (Ec), CoTM (Eng), Eng                  ssu      ssu
    December2002                            2     CoTM (Eng), Eng                          s
    March-April2003                         3     CoTM (Eng), Eng, P
    June-July 2003                          7     CoTM(Eng)                                ss       sss
ICR
    June-July 2003                         3      CoTM (Eng), Ec, Eng
    October2003                            2      Ec, Eng                                           S
TM=Task Manager; CoTM=Co-Task Manager; WR Eng=Water Resource Engineer; P=Procurement; D=Disbursement
Officer; EnvSp=EnvironmentalSpecialist; Eng=Engineer;EnvEng=EnvironmentalEngineer; SanEng=Sanitary Engineer;
FA=FinancialAnalyst; Ec=Economist; PSD=Private Sector DevelopmentSpecialist; SS=Social Scientist; SecM=Sector
Manager;SecSp=SectorSpecialist

                                              31


Annex B. FocusGroup Recalls -
Conceiving anAgency for Coordination
andControlinS%oPaulo

Inthe course ofthe fieldwork, a group ofprincipalsengagedinthe conception and
design of the SZo Paul0 component met to recall the early stages of their work. They
talked about the early stages o fthe project and reflectedon the problem of creating an
agency to manage the many aspects o fthe Guarapiranga-water         pollution, issues of
illegal settlement, sanitation needs o fthe poor, and conditions o f the slums.
The Silo Paul0 focus group singledout the institutionalconundrum facingthemat the
initial stages indesigno f the project. One o fthe major questions was who would take the
reins o f co-ordination and control of the project. Emplasa, the metropolitanplanning
authority, would have been a logical choice for this institutionalresponsibility, but it was
indecline at the time inbothpolicy andoperationalterms. Reflectingonthisperiod, the
group recalleda general consensus that that agency didnot possess the faculties and
authority to handle the problem o f managing strong agencies and institutions inSilo
Paulo like the water company, the power authority, environmental agencies, the state
bureaucracy, and the city.


Fortunately, virtually all of the highly qualified technical people inthe principal agencies
recognized that the situation called for a special solution. Ineffect, the various players
agreed that the core o f the problem was water quality, but the solution would require
inputs from many actors, the federal government, agencies ofthe state, the municipality,
and residents themselves. The group emphasized the importance o f the Bank as an
honest broker. The opinion shared among interviewees was that at the time no other
financial entity inBrazil (for instance, Caixa EconGmica or Banco Nacional de
Desenvolvimento EconGmico e Social (BNDES), nor internationalagencies such as
JICA, the JapaneseInternationalCooperation Agency) would have been able to bridge
the wide and complicated set o f issues that were present inGuarapiranga. With the help
o f the Bank, agency working groups created workable solutions to these problems
through dialogue and exchange.


                                                    33


Annex C. Project Time Lines

1. Water Quality andPollutionControlProjects(Si40 Paulo and Parana): Time
Line

1982               Popular elections o f governors begins
1986               Popular elections o fmayors begins
1988               New Constitution
1990               State government and Ministryo f Social Affairs start discussion with WB
                   about basin level arrangements for projects
1991               RobertoRequiiio de Mello e Silva becomes Governor o f ParanA
                   Luiz Antbnio FleuryFilho becomes Governor o f Siio Paul0
May 1991           Project identification Document
May 1991           Pre appraisal.
                   MGmovedto separateproject
June 1992          Appraisal
July 1992          LoanApproved
May 993            Effectiveness Original date
Sept 1994          Effectiveness Finaldate
1993               Bank publishes Water ResourcesManagement Policy Paper
Apr 1994           Mario Pereira (acting Governor) inParanA
Jan 1995           Jaime Lerner, becomes Governor o f ParanA
Jan 1995           M h i o Covas Jr. becomes Governor o f Silo Paul0
Dec 1995           MTR Original
June 1996          MTRFinal
1996               Resettlement begins
                   New government takes power
1997               Federal Water Resources Law enacted
Jan 1999           Devaluation o fthe Real"
                   Minas Gerais declares moratorium on debt obligation to federal
                   government
                   Bank suspends all loans to the state
June 1999          Borrowers final project progress report
Mar2001            Geraldo Alckmin Filho becomes Governor o f Siio Paulo
Jan 2003           Roberto Requigo de Mello e Silva becomes governor o fParanA (second
                   term)
June 2004          ICR
Mar 2006           ClAudio Lembo becomes Governor o f Siio Paulo




10. FollowingKorean (1997) and Russian (1998) crises, Brazil's fiscal crisis grows. Debt inprimary plus
interest rises to 8% o f GDP, making Brazil vulnerable to "contagion". Investors were pullingmoney out at
the rate of$350mper day. Treasury couldnot continue to buyReals to maintainpegto the dollar.

                                         34


2. EspiritoSantoWater Qualityand PollutionControlProject: Time Line

1982        Popular elections o f governors begins
1986        Popular elections o fmayors begins
1988        Brazil adopts new constitution
1990        Discussions beginon financing regional initiatives inseveral states
Mar 1991    Albuino Cunha de Azeredo becomes governor
1993        Project Concept Document
1993        Bank publishes Water Resources Management PolicyPaper
Dec 1994    Prodespol Effective
1994        PlanRealbegins (goes until 1998)
Jan 1995    Vitor Buaiz becomes governor (1995-1998)
            state counterpart contributions reduced
1997        Federal Water Resources Law enacted
Jan 1999    Devaluationo f the Real (see footnote 7, above)
Jan 1999    Jose Ignacio Ferreira becomes governor (1999-2003)
2000        PRODESOLrestructured, becomes PRODESAN
            US$50m cancelled; executionto SEDIT and turnkey solution
June2003    Loan Closed
Jan 2003    Pablo Cesar Hartungbecomes governor (2003-2006)
2006        Treatment plantsbeingusedat 35 percent capacity

                                     35                              Annex D


Annex D. Maps of BasinsandPhotos of
SlumArea Improvements inSiio Paulo,
Curitiba, Vitbria, andBelo Horizonte

Schematic map of Guarapiranga Basin nested inthe metropolitan area of Sfio Paulo

Annex                                  36




        aulo, Guarapiranga Basin:              Silo Paulo, Guarapiranga Basin:
     Typical view, pre-upgrading.               Typical view, upgraded street.




                         Siio Paulo, Guarapiranga Basin:
                         Post upgrading, refuse collection.

                                  37                              Annex D


                        Curitiba, Alto Iguaqu:
                         Floodgate controls.




                        Curitiba, Alto Iguaqu:
Typicalview, neighborhoodsformerly subjectto flooding on outskirts of city.

Annex D                          38


                              Vithria:
                  Typicallow incomeneighbor




                              Vithria:
        Sewage pumpingstationdesignedto appear as park furniture



N
LY


                                            41                                Annex E


Annex E. AdditionalDocumentsConsulted

Andrealoli, Cleverson V. 2003
      Manaciais de Abastecimento: Planejamento e Gestao. Estudo de Caso do Altissimo
      Iguaq6. Curitiba, Brazil: Sanepar and State of Parani, Brazil. 494 pp.

Andreoli, Cleverson V. and C. Cameiro 2005
      Gestiio Integrada de Manciais de Abastemcimento Eutrofiados. Curitiba, Brazil:
      Sanepar. 500.

Government of State o f Espirito Santo, 2004
      State Law 7943. Subdivisions of Land for Urbanand Other Uses. Vitbria, Espirito
      Santo: Government o f Espirito Santo.

Government of State o f Parani 2005
      PreliminaryDiagnostic o f Present andFutureWater Basins and Integrated System of
      Water Supplyfor the MetropolitanRegion o f Cuitiba. Curitiba: State Governor
      Parani. 51 pp.

                2005
      "Terms o f agreement between CESAN and the Municipality of Victoria" to an
      Agreement OnWater Quality Protection. Victoria: state o fEspirito Santo.

               2005
      "Terms O f Agreement Between The City Of Vitbria And CESANOn The
      Implementation O f"Aguas Limpias Project." Vitbria, Espirito Santo: Government of
      Espirito Santo.

Government of State o f Paranii 2002
      Parana Legislation on Water Resources. State Law Number 12.726 /99 And
      Decrees o fthe Structure of Management for Water Resources inthe State o f Parani.
      Curitiba: State Government of Parani, Brazil. 169pp.

                      2006
      Regulations o f the Superintendency of Development of Water Resources and
      EnvironmentalSanitation. Annex T o Decree Number 3619/2004. Curitiba: State
      Government of Paranii.

                no date
      Decree number 6390. Declarations o f areas o fwater resource o fpublic interest for
      the metropolitanregion of Curitiba and surrounding areas." Curitiba: State Governor
      Paranii.

Annex E                               42


Operations EvaluationDepartment2002
       BridgingTroubledWaters. Assessingthe WorldBankWater ResourcesStrategy.
       Washington, DC: WorldBank.



