Page  1
September 19, 1995
His Excellency Dr. Victor Buaiz
Governor
State of Espirito Santo
Praa Joao Climaco, s/n
Vit"ria, Espirito Santo, Brazil
Dear Governor Buaiz
Re:
Espirito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution Management Project
(Loan No. 3767-BR) - Amendment
We acknowledge receipt of your letter  OF/G No. 610/95, dated August 21, 1995 in 
which you request 100 percent financing for the first stage of the expansion of 
Guarapari's water supply system. We have reviewed your proposal and are pleased to 
inform you that we will make an exception to the rules governing disbursement under 
Loan No. 3767-BR for the Espirito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution Management Project 
(PRODESPOL), to finance the total costs associated with the first stage of the 
expansion of Guarapari's water supply system.
Please be aware that we have taken this decision on an exceptional basis, after 
a careful consideration of the reasons presented in your letter and the judgment of 
Bank staff working in the Project.  However, we believe that the difficult situation 
faced by the Municipality of Guarapari during the summer season cannot be definitively 
solved without adopting a simultaneous and decisive action on the demand side of the 
problem, that is, without the adoption of seasonally differentiated tariffs.  Neither 
the universe of customers served by the state water company of Espirito Santo (CESAN) 
nor the permanent inhabitants of Guarapari should be paying for the costs associated 
with expending Guarapari's water supply system, these are costs that should be mainly 
recovered through the tariffs paid by all customers demanding its execution, that is, 
the permanent and fluctuating population living in Guarapari during the summer months.  
My staff have indicated to me that during the last supervision mission (August 1995), 
an agreement was reached to adopt such a system for Guarapari and, to facilitate the 
implementation of this agreement, the tariff study produced during the appraisal of 
the project will be revisited and ready for December 1995.
We however find troublesome your proposal to operationalize the exception to the 
rules governing disbursement under PRODESPOL, thorough the second stage of Guarapari's 
water supply system.  We consider simpler and more convenient for CESAN, to amend the 
Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement as follows:  (1) to increase the percentage of Bank 
financing of local goods and works associated with the first stage of Guarapari's 
water supply system to 100% from 45% limited to US$3.0 million for civil works and 
US$8.5 million for goods; (ii) to adjust downwards Bank financing of local goods and 
works to 43% to 45% and (iii) to keep unchanged the percentage of foreign goods and 
works and consultant services to be financed by the Bank.
Accordingly, we propose to amend the Table in paragraph 1 of the Loan Agreement, 
dated October 28, 1994, between the Bank and the State of Espirito Santo, as indicated 
in the Attachment to this letter.
If you are in agreement with the proposed amendment to the Loan Agreement, 
please sign and date the form of confirmation placed at the end of this letter and 
return a signed copy to us.  The amendment shall become effective on the date of the 
receipt by the Bank of a copy of the amendment duly countersigned.
Because of their interest and responsibility in this matter, I am copying this 
letter to Mr. Luiz Paste, President of CESAN; Mr. Aroldo Limonge, State Attorney; Mr. 
Pedro Malan, Minister of Finance, and Mr. Roberto Jaguaribe, Secretary of 
International Affairs, Ministry of Planning.  Please, do not hesitate to contact me, 
Mr. Asif Faiz, the Chief of the division in charge of the project, or Mr. Carlos E. 
Velez, the project's Task Manager, if you think we can be of any assistance.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Danny Leipziger
Acting Director
Page  2
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
STATE OF ESPIRITO SANTO
By /s/ Victor Buaiz
Authorized Representative
Governador de Estado
Date:  October 4, 1995
