Page  1
March 22, 2000
His Excellency 
Mr. José Ignacio Ferreira  
Governor State of Espírito Santo 
Praça João Clímaco, 
s/n Palácio Anchieta 29010 Vitória 
Espírito Santo, Brazil
Dr. Fernando Joao Mendonça Guzzo 
President 
Companhia Espírito Santense de Saneamento 
Avenida Governador Bley, 186 29010 Vitória 
Espírito Santo, Brazil
Re:
Loan 3767-BR (Espírito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution 
Management Project) Amendments to the Loan Agreement and Project 
Agreement
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the State of Espírito Santo (the 
Borrower) as well as the Project Agreement between the Bank and Companhia Espírito 
Santense de Saneamento (CESAN), both dated October 28, 1994, for the above-referenced 
project, as amended, and to the discussions between representatives of the Bank, CESAN 
and the Borrower during the Bank supervision missions to Brazil from 25 to 27 October, 
from 6 to 14 December, 1999 and from 31 January to 4 February, 2000.
A. We propose to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.  Section 1.02 (c) is modified to read as follows:
"(c) 'Eligible Subproject' means any Subproject which has been approved 
by the Bank after reviewing the information provided by CESAN pursuant to 
Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement, including the projects listed in Part 
B.1 (a) through (e) of the Project;". 
2.  In Section 3.01 (a), third line, the phrase ", through SEAMA," is deleted. 
3.  Section 3.01 (b) is deleted. 
4.  In Schedule 1, the table in paragraph 1 thereof is amended as provided in Annex 1 
to this letter. 
5.  Schedule 2 is amended as follows:
(a) Parts A and B of the Project are modified to read as follows:
"Part A:  Project Management and Coordination Technical assistance to 
the PMU in the management and coordination of the Project.
Part B:  CESAN
1. Carrying out of Eligible Subprojects, including, inter alia, the following: 
(a) sewage 
collection, treatment and disposal in Vitória (Basin B-4); (b) 
sewage collection, treatment and disposal in Vila Velha (Basin B-13); (c) 
sewage collection, treatment and disposal in Cariacica (Campo Grande); (d) 
sewage collection, treatment and disposal in Guarapari (Praia do Morro); (e) 
sewage collection, treatment and disposal in Domingos Martins; (f) completion 
of 
sewerage works in Santa Maria de Jetibá; (g) expansion of water production 
systems in the Great Vitória Region; (h) completion of ongoing network 
expansion and household connections works; (i) completion of ongoing household 
water 
meter installation works; and (j) carrying out of community information 
and sanitary 
Page  2
education campaigns in order to put into operation sewage 
collection, 
treatment and disposal Subprojects. 
2. Improvement of CESAN’s project implementation and planning capacity by 
carrying out engineering studies to prepare investments." 
(b)  The date "December 31, 1999" is replaced by "October 31, 2000" as 
the expected Project completion date.
B.  In addition, we propose to amend the Project Agreement in order to revise the 
performance indicators and targets in line with the reduced scope of works as follows:
1. Section 4.02 (a) is amended to read as follows: "(a) Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise 
agree, CESAN shall substantially achieve, in a manner acceptable to the 
Bank, the targets for CESAN’s working ratio set forth in the Schedule to this 
Agreement, provided, however, that in no case CESAN’s total operating expenses for 
each of its fiscal years shall exceed the equivalent of 74% of its total operating 
revenues for such fiscal year." 
2. The Schedule of Performance Indicators and Targets is amended to read as shown in 
Annex 2 
to this letter. 
If you agree with the foregoing amendments, please sign the three copies of this 
letter on the spaces provided below, and return one fully signed copy to us. This 
amendment will become effective as of the date of this letter, upon receipt by the 
Bank of one fully signed copy of this letter.
Sincerely, 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind Nankani 
Director 
Country Management Unit, Brazil
AGREED: 
STATE OF ESPIRITO SANTO 
By /s/ José Ignacio Ferreira
       Authorized Representative
COMPANHIA ESPÍRITO SANTENSE DE SANEAMENTO
By /s/ Fernando Joao Mendonça Guzzo
Authorized Representative
cc.:
SEAIN, PGFN
