Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3767 BR
Loan Agreement
(Espírito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution
Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF ESPÍRITO SANTO
Dated October 28, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3767 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 28, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF ESPÍRITO SANTO 
(the Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower's 
sanitation company, Companhia Espírito Santense de Saneamento (CESAN), 
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to CESAN part of the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement;
(C)
by an agreement (the Project Agreement) of even date 
herewith between the Bank and CESAN, CESAN has agreed to undertake 
certain obligations with respect to the carrying out of Part B of the 
Project and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the 
Project Agreement;
(D)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date 
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to 
undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
Page  2
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as 
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under 
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be 
inconsistent 
with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the 
Bank's Articles of 
Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Action Plan" means the action plan, submitted by the 
Borrower to the Bank through a letter dated January 21, 1994, for the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project;
(b)
"Contract-Plan" means the contract (
Acordo de Gestão), dated 
September 2, 1994, between the Borrower and CESAN, which provides for the 
respective obligations of the Borrower and CESAN related to the carrying 
out of the Investment Program;
(c)
"Eligible Subproject" means a Subproject which has been 
approved by the Bank after reviewing the information to be provided by 
CESAN on such Subproject pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Project 
Agreement;
(d)
"Financial Intermediary" means a financial institution 
operating in Brazil, acceptable to the Bank, selected by the Borrower to 
be its financial agent in the making of the Subsidiary Loan;
(e)
"Financial Intermediary Agreement" means the agreement 
referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Great Vitória Region" means the region in the territory of 
the Borrower comprising the municipalities of Vitória, Vila Velha, 
Cariacica, Serra and Viana;
(g)
"Investment Plan" means any of the plans referred to in 
Section 2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(h)
"Investment Program" means CESAN's investment program for 
the period 1994-1999;
(i)
"PMU" means the unit created for the purposes of 
coordinating the execution of the Project;
(j)
"SEAMA" means the Borrower's Secretariat for the 
Environment;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
Page  3
(l)
"Subproject" means a project under the Investment Program 
consisting of investments in water treatment plants, pumping stations, 
water transmission pipelines, reservoirs, water distribution pipelines 
and water connections or investments in sewerage connections, systems of 
sewerage collection and transportation, residual water treatment and 
final disposition;
(m)
"Subproject Evaluation Guidelines" means the guidelines, 
transmitted by CESAN to the Bank through a letter dated April 7, 1993, 
containing the criteria for selection and appraisal of Subprojects, 
including the requirement for environmental impact assessment and SEAMA's 
environmental licenses for each Subproject;
(n)
"Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be provided pursuant to 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(o)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement referred to 
in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various 
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of 
one hundred and fifty-four million dollars ($154,000,000), being the sum 
of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued 
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal 
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at 
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on 
the date immediately preceding each date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the 
Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
Page  4
     (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings 
of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding 
such 
borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has 
allocated to 
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and 
(B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 
1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than 
as provided in paragraph 
(a) of this Section.
    (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second 
six months of a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six 
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this 
Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
at a 
rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings 
determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus 
one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest 
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during 
the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during such 
Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, 
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost 
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing 
on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out, through SEAMA, Part A of the Project, 
and, through the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, shall cause CESAN to perform 
all its obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, including the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
technical, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower, through SEAMA, shall carry out Part A of the 
Project as set forth in the Action Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall relend to CESAN the portion of 
the Loan allocated to finance the carrying out of Part B of the Project, 
under an agreement (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement), satisfactory to the 
Bank, to be entered into between the Borrower, through the Financial 
Intermediary, and CESAN, which shall provide that the Subsidiary Loan 
will be made under the same financial terms and conditions of the Loan.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement (the Financial 
Intermediary Agreement), satisfactory to the Bank, with the Financial 
Intermediary, whereby the Financial Intermediary shall undertake to 
assist the Borrower in making the Subsidiary Loan.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Financial 
Intermediary Agreement and the Contract-Plan in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower: 
(i) shall not assign, amend, abrogate or fail to enforce the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement or the Financial Intermediary Agreement, or any provision 
thereof; and (ii) shall, not later than December 31 of each year during 
the execution of the Project, revise the Contract-Plan, in terms 
satisfactory to the Bank, to take into account the modifications required 
by the corresponding Investment Plan.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the Project shall be 
carried out by CESAN pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 
(a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall take all necessary action on 
its part required to enable CESAN to comply with the provisions of 
Sections 3.04, 4.02, 4.03, 4.06, 4.07 and 4.08 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 
of the General Conditions, in the 24th month after the Effective Date, 
the Borrower, jointly with CESAN, and the Bank shall undertake a review 
of the progress in the execution of the Project and the attainment of its 
objectives, and the performance of the Borrower and CESAN of their 
respective obligations in the Loan and Project Agreements.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, during the execution of the 
Project: (a) maintain the PMU with functions, responsibilities and staff 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) provide or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required by the PMU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a 
timely manner.
Section 3.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 
of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through the PMU, shall:
(a)
by January 15 and July 15 of each year during the execution 
of the Project, submit to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, containing an assessment of 
the progress in the execution of Parts A and B.2 of the Project, and the 
works under Eligible Subprojects; and
(b)
by April 15 and October 15 of each year during the execution 
of the Project, submit to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, containing an assessment of 
the progress in the execution of Parts A and B.2 of the Project, and the 
works under Eligible Subprojects, an analysis of CESAN's compliance with 
the covenants in Sections 3.04, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and 4.08 of the Project 
Agreement, a critical assessment of problems and issues in the execution 
of the Project during the period covered by the report, proposals on 
actions to be taken in the case of unsatisfactory progress of the 
Project, general financial projections for CESAN in the following six 
years, and information, based on indicators acceptable to the Bank, on 
improvement of quality of water, health conditions and quality of life, 
enhancement of water use, and protection of coastal ecosystems in the 
area of influence of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and separate 
Page  6
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices SEAMA's operations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
Part A of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
          (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, all 
records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such 
records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
CESAN shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that CESAN will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Project Agreement; and
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction 
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of 
CESAN or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  7
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Financial Intermediary 
Agreement have been entered into between the respective parties thereto; 
and
(b)
this Agreement has been registered by the Central Bank of 
Brazil.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by CESAN, and is legally binding upon CESAN in accordance with its terms;
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Financial Intermediary 
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the respective parties 
thereto, and are legally binding upon their respective parties in 
accordance with their terms;
(c)
this Agreement has been registered by the Central Bank of 
Brazil; and
(d)
all acts, consents, and approvals, together with all 
necessary  powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and 
validly performed or given and no other such acts, consents or approvals 
are required in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to 
enable the Borrower, CESAN and the Guarantor to perform all of their 
respective covenants, agreements and obligations contained in this 
Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement, 
respectively.
Section 6.03. The date January 31, 1995 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  8
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Borrower:
State of Espírito Santo
Praça João Clímaco, s/n
Palácio Anchieta
29015-110 Vitória, Espírito Santo
Brazil
Telex:
27-2182
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orçamento e
  Coordenação da Presidência da República
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K"
   5o andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF ESPÍRITO SANTO
By /s/ Albuino Cunha de Azeredo
       Aroldo Limonge
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  9
(1) Civil works 
   73,400,000
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
45% of local 
expenditures 
(2) Goods 
   60,000,000
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
and 45% of local 
expenditures 
(3) Consultants' 
   20,600,000
85% of local 
    services 
expenditures for 
services of 
consultants 
domiciled within 
the territory of 
the Guarantor 
and 100% of 
foreign expen-
ditures for 
services of 
other consultants 
TOTAL
   154,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $8,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1994 or a date which 
is 12 months before the date of this Agreement, whichever is later.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under 
contracts for goods, works and consultants' services costing less than 
the equivalent of $250,000 (other than the first two contracts) in the 
case of goods, $4,000,000 (other than the first two contracts) in the 
case of works, $100,000 in the case of consulting firms and $50,000 in 
the case of individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the 
operation of CESAN's water supply systems; (b) to increase the coverage 
level of CESAN's water supply, sewerage and sewage treatment services in 
the urban areas of the municipalities of the Great Vitória Region, 
Guarapari, Castelo, Iúna, São Gabriel da Palha, Nova Venecia and 
Conceição da Barra, and other towns located in the Santa Maria and Jucu, 
river basins and the Guarapari drainage area, in the Borrower's 
territory; and (c) to provide appropriate water and sanitation 
infrastructure in low-income urban areas of the municipalities of the 
Great Vitória Region and Guarapari.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  10
Part A:
SEAMA's Institutional Strengthening
A program to: (a) strengthen SEAMA's programs in water resources 
management, water quality monitoring, solid waste management, industrial 
pollution control and coastal ecosystem protection; (b) design and 
implement environmental information systems, and environmental education 
programs; and (c) improve SEAMA's operational and administrative 
capability to prepare and adopt norms, guidelines and procedures for 
environmental impact assessment, and to review and upgrade SEAMA's 
organizational procedures and work programs.
Such program will require the carrying out of studies, provision of 
technical assistance and training, and acquisition and utilization of 
water quality monitoring and laboratory equipment, and information 
management systems and equipment.
Part B:
CESAN
1.
Carrying out of Eligible Subprojects.
2.
Improvement of CESAN's management capacity, operational efficiency 
and financial performance, through the carrying out of the following 
activities: (a) a managerial development program to improve CESAN's 
institutional capabilities to carry out its responsibilities under the 
Project; (b) a training program for CESAN's staff on planning, marketing, 
financial and operational techniques; (c) a program to institutionalize 
operational and financial planning; (d) a sanitary education program; (e) 
renovation of the equipment required by CESAN's laboratories; (f) a total 
quality program to improve CESAN's productivity and response to consumer 
complaints; and (g) a restructuring of CESAN's data processing system, 
including acquisition and development of new management systems.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2000
through   September 15, 2009
     7,700,000
_____________________________
Page  11
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents 
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General 
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium 
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid 
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment 
below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate 
(expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum) applicable 
to the 
Loan on the day of 
prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent 
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to 
in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract 
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful 
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two 
predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied 
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with 
this Part A, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used the relevant 
standard bidding documents issued by the Bank for the use of its 
borrowers, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed 
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant 
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower 
shall use or cause to be used bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  12
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures 
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly 
indicate any preference which would be granted, the information required 
to establish the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the 
following methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation and 
comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
following two groups:
(a)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the 
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the 
Bank that such goods contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to 
at least 50% of the value of the complete goods.
(b)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all 
evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared among themselves, 
without taking into account customs duties and other import taxes levied 
in connection with the importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied 
in connection with the sale or delivery of the goods pursuant to the 
bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, 
and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, 
it shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the 
lowest evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be 
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding:
(a)
to the evaluated bid price of goods to be imported in each 
group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs 
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to 
pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (ii) 
15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and
(b)
to the evaluated bid price of goods supplied domestically 
offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on 
the goods offered in such group B if they originated from the same 
foreign country as the bid included in group B which enjoys the lowest 
customs duties and other import taxes; or (ii) 15% of the ex-factory bid 
price of such goods.
If, as a result of this comparison, the bid from group A is the lowest, 
it shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from 
group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be selected for the 
award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods and works, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$250,000 and $4,000,000 per contract, respectively,up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $800,000 and $60,400,000, respectively, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank.
2.
In the procurement of works in accordance with Part C.1 hereof, the 
Borrower shall use or cause to be used the standard bidding documents 
transmitted by the Borrower to the Bank through the letter dated April 8, 
1994.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final 
contracts:
Page  13
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A hereof and the first two contracts for goods and 
works to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C hereof, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made 
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to 
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to 
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the 
other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part E:
FSRMM
For the purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term 
"customs duties and other import taxes" includes the Guarantor's Freight 
Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete Para 
a Renovação da Marinha Mercante), established by Decree Law 1,142 of 
December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other tax, 
levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Part F:
Special Provisions
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement 
of goods and/or works to be undertaken pursuant to Part C hereof:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on 
price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors 
similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
2.
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be 
advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide 
circulation in Brazil.
3.
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture 
(consórcio) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance 
by the Bank in each case.
4.
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum and/or maximum amounts for the contract 
prices.
5.
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue 
any change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by 
more than 15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any 
change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Borrower and CESAN in the carrying out of 
Page  14
the Project, the Borrower shall, and shall cause CESAN to, employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by 
the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank for the use of its borrowers, with such modifications 
as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use 
other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of 
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply 
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: 
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Page  15
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of 
each 
such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  16
