                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27848

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (CPL-37670)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 154 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                STATE OF ESPIRITO SANTO, BRAZIL

                                                FOR THE

      ESPIRITO SANTO WATER AND COASTAL POLLUTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                              April 7, 2004




Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management 5
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective November 2003)

                              Currency Unit = Brazilian Real (R$)
                                         R$1 = US$ 0.35
                                    US$ 1.00 = R$2.85

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 -    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADERES         Espirito Santo Development Agency
BNDES          Brazil's National Economic and Social Development Bank
CEF            Federal Savings Bank (Caixa Economica Federal)
CESAN          Espirito Santo State Water and Sanitation Company
CST            Tubarao Steel Company
CVRD           Vale do Rio Doce Company
EIB            European Investment Bank
IEMA           State Environmental Institute
IPHAN          Institute of National Historical and Artistic Heritage
MTR            Mid Term Review
PANF           Program of Control and Reduction of Unaccounted for Water
PLADIC         CESAN's Institutional Development Program
PMSS           Water and Sanitation Sector Modernization Program
PRODESAN       Second phase of the project (Programa de Despoluicao e Saneamento do Estado
               do Espirito Santo)
PRODESPOL      First phase of the project (Programa de Despoluicao dos Eco-sistemas Literaneos
               do Estado do Espirito Santo)
PROPAR         Water Sector Privatization Technical Assistance Project
PRORURAL       Rural Sanitation Program
SEAMA          State Secretariat of the Environment
SEDIT          State Secretariat of Transportation and Public Works
STP            Sewage Treatment Plant
UFW            Unaccounted-for-Water
UGP            Project Management Unit




                            Vice President:      David De Ferranti
                           Country Director      Vinod Thomas
            Sector Manager/Sector Director       John Stein/Danny Leipziger
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Franz R. Drees-Gross

                                            BRAZIL
ESPIRITO SANTO WATER AND COASTAL POLLUTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
 1. Project Data                                                                    1
 2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
 3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
 4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
 5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            23
 6. Sustainability                                                                31
 7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 33
 8. Lessons Learned                                                               36
 9. Partner Comments                                                              38
 10. Additional Information                                                       45
 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             46
 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             68
 Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             73
 Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             89
 Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             91
 Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                92
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            93
 Annex 8. Map                                                                     94

Project ID: P006522                                                  Project Name: Espirito Santo Water and Coastal
                                                                     Pollution Management Project
Team Leader: Franz R. Drees-Gross                                    TL Unit: LCSFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 7, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Espirito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution               L/C/TF Number: CPL-37670
                            Management Project
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Sewerage (67%); Water supply (30%); Sub-national government
                            administration (3%)
                  Theme: Other human development (P); Access to urban services for the poor
                            (P); Other urban development (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Water resource management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/15/1993                                     Effective: 01/31/1995                12/19/1994
     Appraisal: 00/00/0000                                         MTR: 01/01/1997                  05/26/1998
      Approval: 06/28/1994                                      Closing: 12/31/1999                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          STATE OF ESPIRITO SANTO/CESAN AND SEAMA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Rainer Steckhan
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Asif Faiz
Team Leader at ICR:             Carlos E. Velez                                Carlos E. Velez
ICR Primary Author:             Charles Dahan; Dominique
                                Babelon


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the project were: (a) to improve the efficiency of CESAN's (Companhia Espirito
Santense de Saneamento) water supply and sewerage systems by supporting the company's efforts to
operate on a commercial basis with financial self-sufficiency ; (b) to increase the coverage level of
                                                                                  1)


CESAN's water supply and basic sanitation services ( i.e sewage collection, treatment and disposal) in the
urban areas of Grande Vitória, Guarapari, Castelo, Iúna, São Gabriel da Palha, Nova Venecia, and
Conceição da Barra, and other towns located in the Santa Maria and Jucu river basins; and (c) to provide
appropriate water and sanitation infrastructure in low-income urban areas of Grande Vitória and
Guarapari.

By achieving these objectives, the project would bring about: (a) an improvement in the quality of life of
about a million urban inhabitants of the state of Espirito Santo; (b) a reduction in the incidence of
oral-fecal diseases; and (c) an improvement in the quality of water for human consumption and recreational
uses through the restoration and protection of the environmentally deteriorated rivers that feed the urban
areas of Grande Vitoria and Guarapari, and the estuarine and coastal areas within and adjacent to these
municipalities

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives did not change during implementation, despite substantial restructuring and scaling
down of project activities.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of three major components:

(a) An investment component, to help finance CESAN's investment program. It included: (i) investments
in water supply, aimed at expanding the systems of Grande Vitoria, Guarapari, and other areas , increasing                2)


service coverage in the state by 2%, from 91% to 93%, eliminating existing bottlenecks, and improving the
operation of all CESAN's systems; (ii) an operational development program, aimed at reducing the high
levels of Unaccounted-for-Water; (iii) investments in sanitation, which sought to reduce water pollution in
Grande Vitoria and Guarapari as well as in other selected river basins , restoring and protecting water
                                                                                             3)


quality for the preservation of water supply sources, aquatic ecosystems, recreational beaches and other
marine areas. The sanitation subcomponent was to increase service coverage of sewage collection and
treatment in the state by about 32%, from 11% to 43%.

(b) A CESAN institutional strengthening component sought to strengthen the company's management
capacity, operational efficiency, and financial performance. The impact of these improvements and of
project investments were to be monitored according to a set of agreed physical, financial and operational
targets.

____________________________
1)
  In the Loan Agreement, this first objective is worded as "to improve the operation of CESAN's water supply systems".
2)
  Castelo, Iúna, São Gabriel da Palha, Nova Venecia and Conceição da Barra
3)
  the Santa Maria, Jucu, Jabuti, Peroção, and Una river basins




                                                                       - 2 -

(c) An institutional strengthening component for SEAMA, the State Secretariat for the Environment. This
component aimed to strengthen SEAMA's programs in water resource management, solid waste
management, water quality monitoring, industrial pollution control, coastal ecosystem protection, and
environmental education.

3.4 Revised Components:

During the period 1994-1999 (referred to as the first, or PRODESPOL, phase later in this report),
implementation of the project, which was the responsibility of CESAN, experienced considerable
difficulties, due to a lack of counterpart funding, a lack of commitment on the part of the State
Government, a lack of continuity in policies and strategies, and inadequate project management. As a
result, most investments in sewage collection implemented under the project became stranded, without
transmission and treatment systems. The project was substantially restructured in December 1999 (just
before the original closing date), into what is referred to as the second phase (or PRODESAN phase) of the
project, implemented between 2000 and June 2003, when the loan was finally closed. Under this
restructuring, the scope of project activities was reduced in line with available counterpart financing; a
partial cancellation of loan proceeds was effected (US$50 million); and the project's closing date was
extended to allow the completion of ongoing project activities. Under this amendment, Bank financing
became limited to completing four major and one minor sewerage schemes in the Grande Vitoria region and
in the cities of Guarapari and Domingos Martins, where project investments in collection networks were
stranded. Monitoring indicators were adjusted accordingly. The amendment also limited institutional
strengthening measures to those already underway, eliminating the SEAMA institutional strengthening
component, which had not started. The Board was notified of these changes on March 1, 2000, and they
were incorporated in an amendment to the legal documents, dated March 22, 2000. Under the second
phase, the responsibility for project implementation was shifted from CESAN to the State Secretariat of
Transportation and Public Works (SEDIT), which also assumed control of the project management unit
(UGP). In this second phase, the four major treatment plants in Grande Vitoria and Guarapari were
contracted by SEDIT under a comprehensive Design, Build and Operate ("turnkey") contract. The smaller
scheme in Domingos Martins was carried out under a separate contract.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Overall Quality at Entry was Satisfactory. The project was fully consistent with the Bank's country
assistance strategy in the water and sanitation sector at the time, which was to place sector operations on a
commercial basis, with public funds explicitly directed to provide the poor with access to appropriate
services, while protecting the environment: financial self-sufficiency, accountability of sector agencies,
effective pollution management and poverty targeting were stressed as the basic goals. These objectives
were also those of the State Government at the time, which was placing high priority on commercial
management of CESAN (through a Contract Plan approach) and to the control of pollution. The current
CAS stresses urban poverty reduction as one important development objective, supported by the provision
      4)


of water and sanitation and the modernization of sector institutions and regulation. Bank assistance in the
sector focuses on services to the poor, private sector participation, the development of an appropriate water
resources management framework, and support to sanitation-environment integration. Project objectives
remain substantially consistent with current Bank and country priorities.

____________________________________

4)
  Dated May 1, 2001




                                                       - 3 -

Quality of project design was high. The project was to be "the first attempt to simultaneously address the
three basic pillars of the Bank's strategy for the sector: economic efficiency, water pollution control and
prevention, and poverty alleviation" and was to serve as an example in Brazil and in the Bank. The project
                                      5)


included well designed components to meet each of these objectives and a set of clear and relevant physical,
financial, institutional and environmental indicators and targets. Bank safeguard policies were complied
with. All major project risks were identified, including that CESAN's internal financing capacity could
deteriorate as a result of operational inefficiency and inadequate tariff adjustments, that sector and project
priorities could change as a result of the 1994 gubernatorial election, reducing the amount of State
counterpart funds, and that project benefits could be affected by a lack of reduction of water pollution from
industrial sources. These risks, however, were mitigated by including an institutional strengthening
component for SEAMA, efficiency and tariff targets agreed with CESAN and the State, and by reliance on
the European Investment Bank (EIB) to finance about half of State counterpart funds.

In all three areas, however, the degree of risk was under-estimated. The operation was over-sized, given
insufficient past experience of the State and CESAN with operations of that magnitude and complexity,
and the large political risks and generally poor governance in this small state. Timing differences in
processing schedules of the Bank and the EIB loans were also risky. The procurement plan, with 93 bid
packages for the physical investments, may have been too fragmented, given CESAN's limited experience
with projects of that magnitude. Finally, the organizational arrangements for the SEAMA component (with
the CESAN project unit being responsible for contract approvals and flow of funds) were not the most
appropriate, given potential conflicts of interest involved in having SEAMA report to the agency it was
intended to regulate in environmental matters.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall, the outcome of the project is rated moderately satisfactory. Despite unsatisfactory institutional
development achievements, significant economic, environmental and social benefits are still expected from
project investments, even though they fell short of initial targets.

4.1.1 Physical objectives

Overall, achievement of physical objectives compared with appraisal was satisfactory, though moderately
so.




______________________________

5)
  IEPS




                                                       - 4 -

Water Supply Component

The outcome of the project's investments in water supply infrastructure is satisfactory. Although total
costs were less than half initial targets, and did not include the large investments in treatment facilities
originally planned, they complemented projects funded from other sources. The project expanded
CESAN's distribution network which, through the installation of 59,144 new connections (about 83% of
appraisal estimates), helped cover normal population growth even in areas of accelerated urban
development. Water coverage increased from 91% to 94.4% in 1999 and about 94% in 2002 (compared
with the appraisal target of 93.2% for 1999). Repressed demand was virtually eliminated, rationing was
reduced, and waiting time for new connections is said to be lower than 5 days. Rationing was eliminated
under the project for 98,000 persons, including 68,000 in Vitoria (of which 45,000 as a result of the
installation of the Vale Esperança reservoir) and 30,000 in Guarapari (in total about 52% of the 188,000
expected at appraisal) . This is an important achievement given that, at appraisal, almost two thirds of
                          6)


CESAN's customers were subject to rationing. In Vitoria, the project also helped improve the system's
operation. The situation in Guarapari also improved, reducing extensive water rationing which affected the
population (particularly during summer, due to the high number of seasonal visitors). Nonetheless,
additional investments are necessary to ensure water quality and fully eliminate rationing. The State
Government has applied for an additional loan from the Bank to complete pending project investments,
including those in Guarapari.

The outcome of studies and programs to reduce unaccounted-for-water, however, is unsatisfactory.
Although the program helped increase the percentage of connections with individual meters from 69% in
1994 to about 85% in 2003 (100% in the interior, including Guarapari), the other important measures
needed to control physical and commercial losses were not implemented. Overall, the impact of the project
on reducing UFW was negligible: after decreasing from 39% in 1994 to 30% in 2000, UFW increased
again to 36% in 2002.

The re-estimated financial and economic rates of return of the water supply component are substantial. As
at appraisal, costs and benefits of all investments made by CESAN during the period between 1994 and
2003 (including the UFW program) were taken into account: Re-estimated Rates of Return are 15% for the
financial rate of return (compared with 18% estimated at appraisal for Grande Vitoria) and 55% for the
economic rate of return (compared with 35% estimated at appraisal).
__________________________________
6)The Appraisal target was to reduce rationing to fewer hours for about 55,000, in addition to eliminating rationing totally for
188,000 (Annex 16, para 11). It is not possible to assess the extent to which this target of 55,000 was met. However, CESAN
claims that rationing is no longer a critical issue.




                                                              - 5 -

Sewerage Component

With total costs amounting to 61% of appraisal estimates, implementation of project objectives was partial,
but is rated satisfactory (though marginally so), in recognition of achievements during the second phase,
after the project was restructured. Also, the project's future benefits remain substantial and the investments
have a satisfactory economic rate of return. The sanitation sub-component is expected to increase the
service coverage level of the urban population in CESAN's concession area from 20% in 2002 -- 18%
when excluding project connections already in operation at that date -- to 37% by 2006 and beyond (Annex
3, Table 3.2), an increase of 19 percentage points. The appraisal target was an increase from 11% in 1993
to 43% by the end of 1999 (at project completion), an increase of 32 percentage points as a result of the
project. Incremental coverage obtained is thus about 60% of the appraisal target, consistent with lower
actual costs of this component, which are 61% of appraisal estimates. Total sewage treatment capacity
built under the project (1050 l/s) was about 60% of appraisal targets, and at completion, connections built
(47,380) were only 46% of appraisal targets (103,365). Of these connections, close to 20% (9,431)
required additional work (cleaning, unclogging and other corrections) before becoming operational. Except
for the Camburi system, the minor systems implemented in the municipalities of Serra, Santa Maria de
Jetiba and Domingos Martins (which are already operating), and additional connections to cover population
growth in already served areas, which are benefiting a total of about 50,000 people, the main outcome of
the project will materialize only in 2004 and 2005, when all 47,380 household connections provided under
the project will be effectively linked to buildings and in use (directly benefiting about 320,000 persons,
compared with 770,000 originally expected by project completion-end of December 1999).

Further benefits are expected over time as complementary collection and transmission networks and
connections are added until the capacity of sewage treatment plants (STP) is fully utilized. Current
projections are that all treatment plants except Vila Velha will be saturated by 2030, when about 80,300
connections will be installed in the project systems, benefiting a total population of about 600,000 (about
61% of the 977,268 people expected at appraisal to directly benefit from sewerage connections at the end
of the design period)7). The financial and economic rates of return of the sewerage investments are
substantially lower than appraisal estimates. Financial rates of return are low, due to a combination of
long delays in project implementation, higher costs, and insufficient tariffs: ­2% for the project as a whole,
compared with 9% estimated at appraisal. The economic rate of return (19%), however, remains
substantial, though lower than the appraisal estimate (32%), due to the substantial recreational and
environmental benefits still expected as the treatment capacity of project STP's is fully utilized over time.

4.1.2     Environmental objectives

Overall, environmental objectives are expected to be satisfactorily achieved, though short of appraisal
estimates. Environmental benefits of improved access to potable water on the health of the population were
achieved. Monitoring reports after the start of project installations in late 1998 showed that the quality of
treated water was generally within norms (Annex 1.a5) . The sanitation component was to increase the
                                                                   8)


coverage level

_____________________________________
7)In 2030, except in Vila Velha, the four major systems will be saturated, with about 74,000 connections benefiting about
527,000 people.
8)The Sanitary Control Department (Vigilancia Sanitaria) of the state's Health Secretariat confirmed to the completion mission
that treated water quality in CESAN's facilities was good. However, CESAN did not provide the detailed recent information
requested by the mission.




                                                              - 6 -

of sewage collection and treatment in CESAN's areas from 11% in 1993 to 43% by project completion
(end of 1999) and to maintain that level until full capacity utilization of project treatment facilities.
Substantial benefits were expected from the abatement of water pollution in tourist areas as well as other
upstream water basins , and from the restoration and conservation of water quality for the preservation of
                            9)


water supply sources, aquatic ecosystems, recreational beaches and other marine areas. A simulation of
the impact of these investments on water quality, as well as of other programs to reduce industrial pollution
and solid waste pollution that were expected to be carried out in parallel, showed major improvements.

Total sewage coverage in CESAN's concession areas since appraisal (1993) has and will further increase
significantly, from 11% in 1993 to 37% by 2006 and beyond, compared with 43% at appraisal. This
assumes that all currently planned complementary connections during the period 2004-2008 are built (but
no additional treatment capacity). In Grande Vitoria , total coverage of treated sewerage is expected to
                                                               10)                             11)


reach 27% by 2009 and beyond, compared to 67% based on appraisal data (Annex 3, Table 3.2). When
excluding the municipality of Serra, coverage will reach 37%. In Guarapari, coverage should reach about
50% in 2004, and increase to close to about 75% of the resident population by 2009 (compared with
about 200 % of the resident population based on appraisal data).

It is too early to assess the environmental outcome of project investments on water quality on beaches and
in rivers, since operation has just started, with a limited number of connections. Nevertheless, although less
than originally planned, environmental and health benefits are likely to remain substantial. Monitoring data
of water quality on Vitoria's beaches shows that sewage treatment investments partially financed under the
project, associated with parallel efforts to control industrial pollution (Camburi treatment plant and
associated connections), have had a noticeable impact on the Camburi beach (Annex 1a.4). However, only
a revised modeling of water quality on impacted beaches and rivers, taking into account the extent of
sewerage as well as industrial and urban solid waste, would be able to confirm the impact of increased
coverage on coastal water quality.

Water quality and other environmental improvements will also depend on effective management of the
project's treatment plants. During the second phase of the project, the design and siting of the sewage
treatment plants, routing of outfalls, and technology, were improved to reduce their environmental and
social impact and optimize the environmental benefits of the project. In the four large treatment plants in
Grande Vitoria and Guarapari, the turnkey contractor will operate the systems during three years to meet
specified environmental targets and treated effluent characteristics specified in the contract, using control
and monitoring equipment installed in these plants, including on-site laboratories. Sludges will be disposed
of in a licensed private sanitary landfill in Cariacica, which has already been contracted to absorb the 73
m3 per day of sludge produced at full operation. These plants have already obtained their operation license
and most conditions of the installation licenses have been fulfilled.

The smaller Domingos Martins and Santa Maria de Jetiba systems, which are operated by CESAN, also
obtained their operating licenses. Monitoring in these two facilities, however, is still limited to a monthly
sample collected and analyzed by the Quality Control Division of CESAN and reported to SEAMA as part
of licensing conditions. In Santa Maria de Jetiba, the report prepared for July and August

_______________________
9)those of the Santa Maria, Jucu, Jabuti, Peroção, and Una rivers
10)Vitoria, Vila Velha, Cariacica and Serra, where investments were made under the project.
11)Including estimates of coverage from the Camburi treatment plant




                                                             - 7 -

2003 shows that except for ammonia, all parameters were within the limits established by CONAMA:
Plant average efficiency in July and August 2003 was 89% for DBO5, but only 28% for ammonia, though
in line with the ammonia removal efficiency expected for the installed aerated tank process . In Domingos12)


Martins, the monitoring reports prepared by CESAN for the period March-July 2003 indicate that plant
average efficiency for DBO5 during the period was about 92%, and 99.6% for coliform removal . Except
for July 2003, ammoniacal nitrogen remained close to the limit established by CONAMA (5 mg/l). In both
facilities, the final disposal of sludge is still under debate.

4.1.3 Poverty Alleviation objectives

Poverty alleviation objectives are expected to be satisfactorily achieved, though substantially less than
planned at appraisal. With respect to water supply, at appraisal, it was estimated that households earning
two Minimum Salaries (MS) would account for about 56 percent of project beneficiaries (new
connections), while about 78 percent would be households earning three MS or less. The poor were
expected to also substantially benefit from the expected reduction in rationing, accounting for at least 60%
of all such beneficiaries. Regarding sewerage, direct impact on the poor would be less: about 18% of
beneficiaries were expected to earn less than two MS and about 33 percent less than three MS. However,
they would also indirectly benefit from cleaner beaches and rivers.

At appraisal, 78% of the project beneficiaries from water investments were expected to be poor (earning
less than three minimum salaries), and CESAN estimates that the actual distribution of beneficiaries is
consistent with the appraisal estimate. Although poor customers in 2003 accounted for only 47% of all
clients state-wide (compared to 57% at appraisal), project-financed investments have predominantly
benefited the poor, because a large share of these investments improved water distribution in poor areas of
Grande Vitoria, particularly in Vale Esperança, where about 220, 000 persons benefited from either
reduced or eliminated rationing. The elimination of rationing in other areas (for 53,000 persons, including
30,000 in Guarapari) also mostly benefited the poor. Assuming that 44% of the population benefiting from
new connections were in the two lowest income client categories , poor beneficiaries may account for 60%
                                                                              13)


to 70% of all beneficiaries, close to CESAN's estimates.

Expected direct beneficiaries from sewerage in Grande Vitoria and Guarapari in the social and popular
categories are now estimated by CESAN to account for 35% of total direct beneficiaries, compared to 33%
at appraisal. This percentage is consistent with CESAN's sewerage client distribution in the Grande
Vitoria area. This should be equivalent to about 115,000 in 2005 (when all existing connections are
expected to be linked to buildings), and 206,000 at saturation. Corresponding appraisal estimates were
250,000 at completion and 400,000 at saturation. In absolute numbers, the project will thus reach about
half of originally intended poor direct beneficiaries. All inhabitants of the project areas, however, will
indirectly benefit from cleaner rivers and beaches.


______________________________
12)The average ammonia content remaining in the treated effluent was 48 mg per liter, much higher than the CONAMA current
limit of 5 mg per liter, which is under discussion (proposal to increase it to 20 mg)
13)
   30% of new customers between 1993 and 2003 were in these categories (Annex 3, Table 3.5). Assuming that poor
households have an average of 5 persons per household (versus 3.3 for the average customers)




                                                              - 8 -

4.1.4 Institutional objectives- Unsatisfactory

(a)      Institutional Development of CESAN- Unsatisfactory.

At appraisal, the deteriorating financial performance of CESAN was identified as a major issue, and the
underlying factors were identified as excessive reliance on Government financing and subsidies that
fostered inefficiency (in particular with respect to high personnel costs, poor productivity, high levels of
unaccounted for water, poor billing and collection performance) and a Government policy that severely
penalized CESAN's earning capability by attempting to curb inflation through frequent institutional tariff
freezes. A major objective of the project was to promote CESAN's move towards financial self sufficiency
and increased efficiency, by supporting a number of programs aiming at rational tariff setting, improved
investment planning and selection, increased productivity (including early retirement plan), improved
efficiency in billing and collection, better financial planning, accounting and auditing, and good
environmental performance.

Total actual spending in studies, technical assistance and training under this component amounted to US$
8.4 million, or 95% of appraisal estimates. Major studies and programs were carried out in the areas of
tariff restructuring, asset revaluation, reduction of Unaccounted-for Water, financial management and
auditing, environmental management, sanitary education, staff reduction, and the design of a Shared
Municipalization Program. The headquarters and equipment sub-components, the preparation of a revised
Contract-Plan, the Demand and Total Quality studies and most training were not implemented under the
project.

As a result of these studies and programs, tariffs were restructured and increased, assets were revalued, the
share of personnel costs in operating costs decreased and productivity improved significantly. But, after
the studies were completed and the project was restructured, these efforts were only partially sustained. A
thirty-year Water Supply Master Plan was prepared , based on eligibility criteria agreed upon under the
project, but it was not implemented. Operational efficiency has remained low. Performance has been
especially disappointing with respect to the continued large accounts receivable associated with poor
collection efforts and unwillingness to suspend service to clients in arrears, and to the continued high levels
of Unaccounted-for Water. As a result, the overall financial situation of CESAN has not improved, and the
company is still far away from profitability and self-sufficiency. Key performance indicators, compared
with appraisal targets, are presented in Annex 1a.1.

The project has also not improved CESAN's environmental management as much as intended. Despite
some recent progress in organization and management, environmental performance of CESAN is still weak,
as demonstrated by the large proportion of water and sewerage systems still operating without
environmental licenses. CESAN has yet to implement plans which were prepared under the project for the
management of solid waste in operational systems and recovery of degraded areas; and to improve its
environmental and operational monitoring and control capabilities, particularly in its sewerage systems.

(b)      Institutional Development of SEAMA- Unsatisfactory

The outcome of this component was nil. No activity was implemented and no disbursement took place
under the project. Between 1993 to 1999, a series of action plans were prepared, however, these proposals
were not implemented, due to lack of continuity in SEAMA's management, lack of permanent staff,
frequent political changes in priorities, and lack of counterpart funds. Eventually, the component was
cancelled when the project was restructured in December 1999.


                                                       - 9 -

4.1.5. Compliance with Bank Safeguards

The following Bank Safeguard policies apply to the project: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01),
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12), Cultural Heritage (OP 4.11), and Natural Habitats (OP 4.04). As
documented below, the project generally complied with these safeguards satisfactorily.

Environmental Assessment

During project preparation in 1993, an environmental assessment (EA) was prepared for the overall project
according to Bank guidelines. The EA was approved by SEAMA, subject to public hearings in the
municipalities where the sewerage systems were to be implemented, as required under the Brazilian law,
and found satisfactory by the Bank. Initial environmental screening of the project concluded that the
potential impacts of the water supply component would be low and subsequent environmental studies
concentrated on the sewage treatment and disposal systems.

The main environmental impacts of the project analyzed by the EA included: improvement of water quality
and recovery in key points of the project's area of influence, but with risk of residual negative impact
associated with the disposal of treated effluent in water bodies with low dilution and waste assimilation;
improvement of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems due to improved water quality, but with risk of negative
impacts on some of these systems related to wastewater treatment plant siting; improved environmental
conditions which would benefit tourism, fishery and health; negative social, economic and cultural impacts
associated with the siting of the wastewater treatment plant for the Praia do Canto system, on land
containing the principal clay deposit for the preparation of clay pots (panelas) by a local artisan
community; and negative impacts during the construction period. Cumulative impacts were also analyzed:
The EA detected increased environmental pressure on an already overloaded neighborhood "Joanna
d'Arc"where the Praia de Canto wastewater treatment plant would be located.

The main mitigation measures proposed in the EA included: Careful project siting and selection of
wastewater treatment technology, design of effluent pipes to avoid coastal lagoon ecosystems and reach
receiving water bodies with higher waste assimilation capacity; design of sludge treatment facilities in all
wastewater treatment plants; design of contingency plans for accidental raw sewage discharge; use of
appropriate construction techniques and work schedules; recovery of degraded areas and reconstruction of
impacted infrastructure; design of mitigation and compensation programs with the participation of the
association of paneleiras, including a social development plan; and intensive community consultation
program in the Joanna d'Arc neighborhood to reach an inter-institutional agreement. These mitigation
measures were incorporated in the terms of reference of specific environmental studies which were to be
prepared for each sewage treatment plant.

The project required two sets of licenses: municipal licenses for projects within the municipalities of Vitoria
and Vila Velha, for the siting and construction of civil works, right of way and crossing infrastructure, and
State licenses for siting, construction, and operation of the water and sanitation facilities.

After project restructuring, the specific environmental aspects of each system became the responsibility of
the turnkey contractor for the four large sewage systems of Grande Vitoria and Guarapari, including
obtaining the necessary licenses, and preparing environmental assessments and studies requested by the
environmental licensing agencies. As a result, specific detailed Environmental




                                                     - 10 -

Impact Declarations . (EID) were prepared by the contractor with the assistance of a specialized
                       14)


consulting firm. Also, the contractor organized meetings in the sites where works were to take place to
inform the communities before works started and explain the project, the construction process, and
measures taken to reduce disruption. These meetings helped obtain communities' acceptance of the project.
All Initial, Installation and Operation licenses were obtained for the four sewage treatment plants. A
number of environmental programs and studies were prepared as part of the EID preparation or
requirements in the environmental licenses. They included: programs for the recovery of degraded areas
and implementation of green belts; monitoring programs of underground water, sewage plant efficiency,
and effluent receiving bodies; management plans of solid waste produced during operation; and studies of
the dilution and waste assimilation capacity of treated effluent receiving bodies. These studies of dilution in
receiving bodies were conducted for each one of the four major sewage treatment plants. Due to their small
size, the Domingos Martins and Santa Maria de Jetiba facilities did not require the preparation of an EID.
However, a study of dilution and waste assimilation capacity and a solid waste management plan were
required for Domingos Martins, and environmental monitoring reports were prepared during construction
and sent to SEAMA and CESAN. Both Domingos Martins and Santa Maria de Jetiba have received their
operation license.

Involuntary Resettlement

During project preparation, careful environmental screening of proposed sites for constructing the sewage
plants helped avoid any land use conflict and any relocation of local populations. Furthermore, while, at
appraisal, sewage treatment plants (STP) were based on stabilization ponds, requiring large areas, the
technology used under the turnkey contract is based on an aerobic treatment process (completely closed in
impermeable concrete tanks with a built-in odor removal system) requiring much less land and having less
impact on local communities.

Cultural Heritage

As commented above, the initial EA had already identified the potential land use conflict of the Praia do
Canto STP (Mulemba) in Vitoria and risks involved for a local artisan community of about 100 families (
Paneleiras de Goiaberias), who for several generations have traditionally used clay extracted from the
plant site (owned by CESAN) in the preparation of clay pots (panelas). These clay pots, which are
associated with the fish dishes for the preparation of which they are used, have become a symbol of the
state's culture. During project preparation, when the project was initially developed in 1992/93, the
stabilization pond design of the Mulemba STP was threatening the paneleiras activities. Intense
consultations with the community defined a compensatory and social development program, which was to
be implemented by CESAN and the Municipality of Vitoria, under the supervision of SEAMA. This
program included: guaranteed legal assess to new deposits; technical assistance equipment and training for
new clay technologies; excavation, transportation, and storage of clays from the Mulemba Valley; technical
assistance in commercialization techniques and one sales outlet in Vitoria; upgrading of existing sanitation
and infrastructure in working areas; and support to other cultural activities. However, no further action
was taken until 2000, when the decision to implement the Mulemba STP was finally taken. The Mulemba
plant was contracted as part of the turnkey contracts. The wining design called for an aerobic treatment
process requiring only a small fraction of the Mulemba site (about 5%), so as to safeguard the clay
extraction area used by the paneleiras (as required in the bidding documents).
______________________________________
14)An Environmental Impact Declaration is required by Espirito Santo State for all facilities which potentially cause some
environmental degradation but no significant environmental impacts, in which case an EIA/RIMA would be compulsory




                                                          - 11 -

Nonetheless, the paneleiras initially opposed construction of the STP at the proposed site, alleging that
even if the new design allowed them to continue extracting clay, the image of their product would suffer
from the proximity of the STP. With the active help of a World Bank community development specialist,
the State Government agreed with the paneleiras on a series of compensatory measures, including: ceding
the right to use the remaining 95% of the Mulemba site to the paneleiras, providing infrastructure upgrades
on the extraction site and the paneleiras workshop, construction and equipment of a restaurant, provision of
two vehicles; and marketing assistance. These compensatory measures were formalized in two agreements
signed between the State Government, CESAN and the Paneleiras Association in June 2001. Under the
project, a visit of several paneleiras to a similar treatment plant in operation in Rio Grande do Sul was
organized to alleviate their fears. Subsequently, in agreement with the paneleiras, CESAN purchased the
clay deposits underneath the plant instead of removing and storing it for later use. As of October 2003, all
agreed measures had been implemented and accepted by the paneleiras except two measures. The
agreement included the provision of an insurance contract to the benefit of the paneleiras association and a
sales point in the airport of Vitoria. These two measures proved impossible to implement, and, with the
agreement of the paneleiras association, they were substituted with a global compensation payment. In
December 2002, IPHAN, the Institute of National Historical and Artistic Heritage, recognized the
paneleiras artisan technique as a Brazilian Cultural Heritage.

Natural Habitats

The environmental studies, and resulting project siting and plant process optimization successfully
minimized impacts on conservation areas and existing natural habitats in the region (mangroves).

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Investment Component

(a) Investments in Water Supply Systems

Original Design - Total costs of the component, including physical and price contingencies, were estimated
at appraisal at US$81 million. The component, which is presented in more detail in Annex 1b.1, covered
three geographical areas:

Ø         The Grande Vitoria area, for which investments, totalling US$46.8 million , were planned for the
                                                                                      15)


expansion of the existing Carapina treatment plant and the construction of transmission and
sub-transmission, storage, pumping and distribution facilities to serve 59,041 new connections, eliminate
rationing and respond to expected population growth in the area;
Ø         The Guarapari area, for which investments totalling US$22.4 million were planned in a new 560
l/s water treatment system, reservoirs, transmission and distribution pipes, to allow 3,149 new connection
and eliminate rationing; and
Ø         The interior of the State, where US$8.7 million were to be invested in new treatment plants and/or
transmission pipelines and reservoirs in 5 cities, and in the construction of new distribution networks to
allow 9,197 new connections.

Achievements. Due to lack of counterpart funds, implementation was limited to the most urgent
investments, totaling US$40 million (about 50% of appraisal estimates). They consisted of the following
(details are provided in Table 1b.1):
_________________________________
15)All appraisal estimates include contingencies




                                                      - 12 -

Ø        In Grande Vitoria, investments amounting to US$4.8 million (about 10% of appraisal estimates),
included the construction of a 10,000 m3 storage tank near the Vale Esperança water treatment plant
(US$1.3 million); and the third and last stage of the expansion of the water supply production system of
Grande Vitoria (US$3.5 million), which was implemented with funds from Caixa Economica Federal
(CEF) and included in the project's counterpart funds. These works mostly contributed to reduce rationing
and help balance the network's pressure.
Ø        In Guarapari, soon after effectiveness, the Guarapari water supply system design was revised to
meet eligibility criteria for project financing, as agreed at appraisal. This project became a high priority,
due to CESAN's inability to cope with much higher water demand during the summer months, and to an
emergency situation which developed during the 1994/95 drought. As a result, implementation was
advanced to start in February 1996, rather than in 1998, and the Bank accepted to finance 100% of the first
stage. The first phase was completed at an estimated cost of US$10.2 million (44.6% of appraisal
estimates for the entire Guarapari subcomponent). It consisted of a water intake, a pumping station, raw
water transmission mains and treated water distribution mains. Operation started with temporary control
panels at the end of 1997, until mid 1999, when the final control panels were installed. The second phase
(which was planned to expand water treatment capacity, build reservoirs, complete the treated water main
distribution network, and expand household distribution), however, has yet to be implemented. It remains
necessary to avoid rationing altogether and/or disruptions during summer months, and to improve water
quality.
Ø        In the Metropolitan Region of Vitoria and Guarapari, additional works totaling US$4.9 million,
were carried out between 1995 and 2002 under the responsibility of CESAN's local operation teams, to
extend existing distribution networks to cover normal population growth. These were included under the
project, as part of counterpart funds. These works added 43,236 connections in Grande Vitoria and 6,108
new connections in Guarapari. In a first phase, these works were implemented through separate contracts
for goods and civil works and, in a second phase, at CESAN's request, through a single contract. The
latter contracting modality proved easier to monitor and resulted in a significant increase in teams
efficiency in implementing connections (from 978 connections per month in 1996 to 1167 in 1997-1998)
and a reduction in the average cost of a connection (from US$69 to US$53) during the same period.
Ø        In cities of the interior, project implementation was limited to the expansion of CESAN's
distribution network by local teams to cover normal population growth. The project included works carried
out between 1995 and 1999 at a total estimated cost of US$13.9 million (161% of appraisal estimates),
including US$7.3 million financed from Bank loan for the purchase of materials. They resulted in 9,800
additional connections (107% of SAR estimates).
Ø        Finally, an aero photometric mapping of the Grande Vitoria area (US$1.8 million) was
implemented; and a revised detailed 30-year Water Supply Master Plan for Grande Vitoria was completed
at end of 1998 (US$1.7 million). This master plan was based on eligibility criteria in line with Annex 18 of
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). The design of priority works proposed in the master plan was concluded
but these investments have yet to be implemented.

(b) Program to Reduce Unaccounted-for Water

The project included a US$10.1 million component to invest in optimization and control of
Unaccounted-for-Water (UFW). As defined in the SAR, UFW is measured by the difference between water
produced and water invoiced, and includes losses due to metering errors, incomplete cadasters, theft,
under-estimation of unmetered consumption, and physical losses in treatment stations and distribution
networks. The objective of the component was to reduce UFW from an estimated 39% in 1994 to 30% in
1998 and maintain that level thereafter. Actual spending of the component was US$6.16 million (61% of
Appraisal estimates), including US$2.4 million in technical assistance and the balance in the purchase and
installation of metering equipment.


                                                      - 13 -

In December 1994, CESAN contracted an international firm under the project to develop the program
(Program of Control and Reduction of Unbilled Water--PANF). The firm worked on the program over a
period of three years, from December 1994 to November 1997. The objective of PANF was to reduce
UFW from about 40% to 24% over a period of five years. The first three phases of the program
(diagnostic; definition of an immediate action plan, preliminary design of projects for macro-metering,
telemetry and remote control of facilities, and sectorization; and the definition of a two-year Action Plan)
were completed, although with some delays and cost overruns due to incomplete cadasters of networks and
consumers. The two-year Action Plan which was prepared included 22 sub-programs to reduce physical as
well as nonphysical losses, including sub-programs to improve measurement of water produced and
consumed through the installation and maintenance of meters (55 macro-meters and over 108,620
household and commercial water meters ), improve operational control through telemetry, remote control
and control of pressure in networks; sectorization of the network; surveys of visible and hidden losses in
underground pipes; and a number of commercial and managerial programs which included the
establishment of a unit to identify by-passes and prosecute fraud, the installation of district meters in
low-income areas to help identify clandestine users, improvements in customer management (in particular
better control over interruption and resumption of service in case of payment default), the establishment
and constant updating of digital geographical cadasters of networks and customers, and finally,
organizational changes in the operation, commercial and project management areas, and training of
personnel.

However, the last phase (monitoring and evaluation of implementation of the two-year program) was not
implemented. Instead, remaining funds in the contract were reassigned to the management and supervision
by the same firm of the macro-metering and micro-metering projects which had been contracted but for
which CESAN was running into implementation difficulties. Even this last task was only partially
completed when the contracted firm withdrew its team in October 1997 due to lack of payment.

The Bank considered that the program had been unilaterally transformed into a costly and inefficient
program of acquisition and installation of meters and made the remaining activities comprised by this
program ineligible for Bank financing even when they were resubmitted as initially conceived: as the
Government's plans to privatize CESAN had become clear, the Bank considered that the private sector
was likely to address the problem more rapidly. Nevertheless, in May 1998, CESAN created a commission
to implement PANF, made up of technical staff from different areas and coordinated by the Metropolitan
Division (Gerencia Metropolitana). The Commission produced a new detailed plan, identifying staff
responsible for each subprogram and a detailed time schedule for completion of all tasks by February 2001.
Despite the Commission's efforts and some initial progress, however, implementation met with important
organizational as well as financial constraints. The reduction of losses was not clearly identified by
management as a key objective of the company, and the Coordination group worked without a clear
mandate and authority from top management to demand results. As they were still responding to their
normal hierarchical levels, technicians assigned to the task were absorbed in routine work. The program
did not have a specific budget. Finally, CESAN essentially stopped all new initiatives while in the
pre-privatization phase.

In the end, results of PANF fell considerably short of expectations. The program of macro-meters was
completed but most are not in operation due to design and/or installation faults. The program's most
important achievement is limited to having increased the percentage of connections with individual meters
from 69% in 1994 to about 85% in 2003 (100% in the interior, including Guarapari),




                                                    - 14 -

although their procurement and installation was fraught with problems . After decreasing from 39% in
                                                                                    16)


1994 to 30% in 2000, UFW increased again to 36% in 2002 (Annex 1a.1). CESAN's new administration
(in office since January 2003) has established a unit within the Operations Directorate, responsible for
preparing, promoting and monitoring actions aiming at reduction of water losses, and some successful pilot
schemes were implemented to reduce losses through an integrated approach (Viana center) and reduce
physical losses through pressure control devices (Santa Teresa). CESAN hopes to obtain funds from the
Fondo de Garantia do Tempo de Serviço (FGTS) to install such valves in other areas. The impact on
reducing UFW, however, was small so far. It is doubtful that significant advances can be made unless loss
reduction is declared at a top company priority, with a planning and supervisory structure empowered by
the President and reporting directly to him.

( c) Investments in Sewerage Systems

Original Design ­Total costs of the component, including physical and price contingencies, was estimated
at US$ 191.8 million at appraisal (62% of total project costs). Details are presented in Annex 1b.2. The
component covered the same three geographical areas as water supply:

Ø         The Grande Vitoria area in which investments totaling US$149.4 million, including contingencies,
were to protect the Vitoria Bay and beaches and improve the urban drainage system through interception of
wastewater discharges. The project included subprojects to cover 6 major urban zones within the
municipalities of Vitoria, Vila Velha, Serra, and Cariacica. Total number of beneficiaries at the end of the
design period was expected to be 698,500 (89,679 connections);
Ø         The Guarapari area in which investments totaling US$29.9 million including contingencies were
designed to collect and treat wastewater, and protect the recreational beaches of Guarapari. Investments
consisted of two subprojects (Praia do Morro and Guarapari Centro systems) which included one
pond-system sewage treatment plant in each system. Total number of beneficiaries at the end of the design
period was expected to be about 237,000 (10,556 connections); and
Ø         Cities of the Interior in which investments totaling US$10.9 million including contingencies were
designed to protect the basins of the Jucu and Santa Maria rivers, which are the sources of potable water
for Grande Vitoria. Investments were to consist of 4 systems for the cities of Domingos Martins, Santa
Maria de Jetiba, Marechal Floriano, and Santa Leopoldina. The total number of beneficiaries at the end of
the design period was expected to be about 41,717 (3,130 connections).

Achievements

Implementation of the sewage collection and treatment component was seriously impacted by lack of
counterpart funds from the State Government. Total actual costs are US$116.6 million (about 61% of
appraisal estimate). As mentioned previously (section 3.3), the component was implemented in two phases:
(i) the PRODESPOL phase, by CESAN, from June 1994 to December 31, 1999 (the original closing date
of the loan); and (ii) the PRODESAN phase, by the State Secretariat of Public Works, from
January 2000 to June 2003, when the loan was finally closed. The State Secretariat of Transportation and
Public Works, where the project implementation unit was moved, assumed implementation control after the
project was radically restructured in December 1999 and stripped down to an emergency infrastructure
completion operation. Annex 1b.2 provides details of works implemented under the project compared to
works expected to be implemented at appraisal.
_______________________
16)The purchase of household water meters was contracted under ICB in December 1997. By September 1999, only half had
been received and installed. Due to long delays in deliveries and in certification by INMETRO of the second lot of meters,
complete installation was only achieved in 2002



                                                            - 15 -

During the first (PRODESPOL) phase, few subprojects were satisfactorily completed. In Grande Vitoria,
these included: (i) the preparation of a master plan for sewerage in the municipality of Serra; (ii) the
completion of the existing Camburi sewerage system (gravity sewers and 1,036 household connections
benefiting about 6,000 people, as well as aerators in the existing sewage treatment plant) to which all
properties in the project area could be connected immediately after its conclusion; (iii) the implementation
of the Jacaraipe Velha system, which increased sewage collection and treatment coverage in the municipal
capital of Serra (697 new connections, sewage collectors and transmission pipes and pumping stations
connected to an existing treatment plant), benefiting about 4,000 people, and contributing to improve the
conditions of beaches in the region; (iv) in the Interior, the sewage collection and treatment system of the
municipality of Santa Maria de Jetiba, on the Santa Maria River, one of the main sources of water supply
in Grande Vitoria (collection and transmission system, sewage treatment plant and 1,090 connections) was
completed and is operating, benefiting about 6,000 people. (v) Finally, expansion works of CESAN's
networks to cover population growth within already served areas of the Metropolitan Region of Vitoria and
Guarapari, were implemented between 1995 and 2002, and included in the project's counterpart funds
(about 5,134 connections, benefiting about 30,000). In all, these satisfactorily completed schemes only
provided about 7,957 connections, benefiting about 46,000 persons.

In addition to these investments, during the first phase of implementation, a total of about US$52.4 million
(Annex 2d) were invested in the construction of about 400 km of secondary sewerage networks and 37,723
connections (of which respectively 33.5 km of sewers and 9,431 connections need additional works to
become usable) in four major and one minor sewerage schemes , but with neither functioning transmission
                                                                       17)


systems nor any treatment plant to dispose of the sewage. Works contracted for the four large systems
during the first phase of implementation generally exhausted their resources without completing their
physical targets, despite large cost increases of up to 25%. In the most advanced scheme, Cariacica, where
CESAN was able to secure outside counterpart funds from Caixa Economical Federal (CEF), 160 km of
gravity sewers and 18,506 building connections had been completed by the end of 2000 (including 3,280
requiring additional works), but work on the sewage treatment plant had also not begun. Altogether,
incomplete works, capable of providing sewage collection services to about 266,000 people, had been
installed but most of them would remain without benefit to anyone until the sewage transmission and
treatment systems were constructed and the secondary networks and buildings were effectively connected.

In light of this critical situation, the second (PRODESAN) phase of project implementation concentrated
exclusively on: (i) completing the four major sewerage schemes (Praia do Canto, Praia da Costa and
Cariacica in Grande Vitoria, and Praia do Morro in Guarapari), under a R$129 million turnkey contract
(including design, construction and operation during three years; and (ii) on completing the minor system in
Domingos Martins through a smaller contract (R$1.2 million). To ensure adequate monitoring and
supervision of these contracts, the State Government contracted a specialized firm. Works under the
turnkey contracts (which were awarded to the same contractor) included the construction of raw and treated
sewage transmission lines and pumping stations, and four sewage treatment plants. Total design capacity of
the sewage treatment plants in the four major schemes is 1,009 l/s. The four major sewage treatment plants
which are based on the Biologic-Aerobic UNITANK process, are guaranteed to meet the environmental
specifications included in the turnkey contracts. These plants are now
__________________________________
17)The major sewerage schemes include Praia do Canto/Vitoria, Praia da Costa/Vila Velha, and Cariacica in Grande Vitoria
and Praia do Morro in Guarapari. The minor scheme is Domingos Martins in the interior of the State, for which the
secondary sewerage network (10 Km) was completed but the pumping station and the treatment plant had yet to be constructed.




                                                         - 16 -

completed and, as of October 2003, were being commissioned. It is now expected that most of the
secondary sewers and connections provided during the first phase of the project will be progressively
connected during 2004 and 2005, including those requiring additional works to become operational (about
9,431 connections). Also, in Domingos Martins a pumping station and a 30.5 l/s sewage treatment station
were completed and started operation in mid-2003.

In all, about 520 km of sewers, 33 pumping stations, 4 major and two minor sewage treatment plants with
a total capacity of 1050 l/s (60% of appraisal target) and about 47,381 household connections (of which
9,431 need additional investments), representing about 46% of appraisal targets were installed under the
project. Most of these results can be attributed to the radical restructuring of the project in 1999, and to
the decision to procure large turnkey contracts, transferring the responsibility of design, implementation
and operation of the four systems during three years to the contractor (within detailed contract
specifications and penalties, including for environmental aspects). Important investments which were
originally in the project scope but not implemented include systems in the B5 and B2 basins in Vitoria,
Guarapari -centro, Paul in Villa Velha, and Marechal Floriano and Santa Leopoldina in the interior. These
projects represented about 40,665 connections or about 40% of total appraisal targets. The State
Government has included the B5 Basin in Vitoria and the Guarapari-Centro sewage systems among
investments for which it has requested Bank financing under a new operation (section 4.1.1).

4.2.2 Institutional Strengthening Component- CESAN

Original Design. The CESAN Institutional Strengthening Component, estimated at appraisal to require
US$8.8 million (including contingencies), provided financing for: ( i ) technical assistance for studies and
individual specialists to help prepare a new Contract-Plan between CESAN and the State Government, and
carry out major studies for the re-evaluation of fixed assets, financial management and auditing, demand
for water and sewerage services, information systems, environmental studies, total quality, and
environmental and other studies (US$750,000); ( ii ) the preparation and implementation of a Sanitary
Education Program (US$750,000); ( iii ) a training component for CESAN personnel in sanitary
engineering and business administration, waste treatment plant design and operation, project planning and
evaluation, financial and auditing systems, marketing, water quality analysis, environmental assessment,
information analysis, water quality models and monitoring systems, information analysis and community
programs (US$600,000); ( iv ) equipment for water and waste water quality analysis, information systems
and sewage cleaning (US$1.8 million); and ( v ) new headquarters for CESAN (US$4.0 million). All these
actions were at the core of CESAN's comprehensive Institutional Development Plan (PLADIC), and of its
revision of September 1996 (Management Plan--Plano de Açao).

Achievements

Total actual spending under this component amounted to US$ 8.4 million, or 95% of appraisal estimates.
However, the allocation of funds was substantially different from what was planned at appraisal. Total
spending in technical assistance and studies was US$1.68 million, over twice originally allocated amounts,
but focusing on fewer studies, in particular: asset revaluation, financial management and auditing, tariff
restructuring, environmental management systems, and design of a Shared Municipalization Program. The
Sanitary Education Program was implemented, also at a cost 80% higher than planned (US$1.36 million).
The headquarters and equipment sub-components were not implemented, but a large staff reduction
program was incorporated in the component instead (US$5.38 million), financed out of CESAN
counterpart funds.




                                                     - 17 -

The training program was not implemented, though CESAN independently carried out substantial staff
training in the use of micro-computers and software developed from its own resources for new networks
and systems developed in the areas of human resources, finance, accounting and marketing. These system
developments were also implemented outside the project from CESAN's own resources. The studies for the
preparation of a revised Contract-Plan, and the Demand and Total Quality studies were not implemented.
Details on objectives, costs, outputs and outcomes of major programs and studies implemented are
presented in Annex 1b.3 . The main programs and studies were as follows:

Ø         an asset revaluation study was carried out and the recommended asset revaluation (R$401.9
million) reflected in the December 1995 audited statements. CESAN was subsequently to carry out similar
revaluation studies at least every three years. Another revaluation was incorporated in the December 31,
1998 Balance Sheet (R$370 million), but no other revaluation was made since.

Ø         a tariff restructuring study was carried out. At the time of project preparation, CESAN's tariff
structure and levels were found to lag behind past inflation and not reflecting the marginal cost of providing
the services. In particular, nonresidential rates were well above the cost of service, while residential rates
were lower. There was a heavy cross-subsidization of sewerage consumers, favoring the highest-income
groups of the population, who tended to be the beneficiaries of sewerage. The tariff structure was
excessively complex, and minimum water consumption levels were charged, even to the poor. CESAN
contracted a study at the end of 1995 to propose a revised tariff structure according to principles agreed
upon at appraisal. The consultants proposed a revised tariff structure in line with the agreed principles.
Real tariffs were substantially increased, and a revised tariff structure was implemented but in many areas
it fell short of the consultant's recommendations:

-         Tariffs were substantially increased in real terms. By 1997, water and sewerage average tariffs
were about in line with marginal costs of service. They have since somewhat eroded in real terms, to 80%
of the 1999 targets for water and about 70% for sewerage by 2003. Nevertheless, cumulated real increases
(in Reais) between 1995 and September 2003 remain substantial, about 20% for water and 54% for
sewerage (Annex 1a.2).

-         The tariff structure was simplified, and the scope of cross-subsidies between consumer categories
was modified: residential tariff categories were reduced by half (from 25 to 12). For water, subsidies were
limited to households categorized in the social and popular categories and consuming less than 15 m3 per
month (Annex 7a). For sewerage, however, changes to the structure fell substantially short of the
consultant's recommendations: the current tariff structure still shows different rates for treated and
untreated sewage ; and there are still more categories of consumers receiving subsidies than recommended.
                    18)


As a result, despite substantial real term increases, the average sewerage tariff in 2003 was still only about
79% of the average water tariff, compared with the appraisal target of 92% by 1999.

-         Furthermore, in November 2003, in order to provide incentives to the population to actually
connect houses to the project sewage collection network, the State Government decided to reduce the tariff
for treated sewage charged to the lowest income categories, and grant all categories of customers
progressively decreasing tariff discounts until January 2005.
________________________________
18)The consultant had recommended to adjust sewerage tariffs in line with the economic cost of collected and treated sewage
because it may be technically difficult to differentiate users whose sewage receive treatment from others, and because
treatment benefits accrue to all users, regardless of whether their sewage is treated or not.




                                                               - 18 -

Ø        A large staff retrenchment program was implemented, which allowed a decrease in the total
number of permanent employees of CESAN to 1,310 by December 1996 and 1,210 by June 30, 1997
through retirement and incentive packages. CESAN had already reduced its permanent staff from over
1,500 at appraisal, and subsequently continued to reduce it--it was down to 1,047 in April 2003.

Ø        A large sanitary information and educational program campaign was contracted by CESAN and
was implemented in several phases over about three years between 1996 and 1999. The program targeted
the communities in the project's area of influence and aimed at mobilizing support to the project by
informing directly impacted populations ahead of time about project works and schedules, about the use,
operation and maintenance of the networks and treatment facilities, and about the costs and benefits of
sanitation and the importance of connecting to the networks and paying for the new services. It also
included a longer-term educational campaign aiming at increasing general awareness in the project
municipalities about the importance of conserving water resources and protecting and recuperating water
basins. The program covered all project municipalities, and was selected for presentation in various
national and international forums. Due to the large delays between the end of the program and the start of
project operations, many of these benefits may have been lost, however, CESAN is now resuming
educational campaigns using the same methods.

Ø        Studies were contracted in 1996 to improve CESAN's organization and management, in particular
for the modernization of internal auditing, control of CESAN's movable assets (optimization of use of
vehicles), and modernization of computer systems. The recommendations of these studies were
implemented.

Ø        Several studies were contracted to improve CESAN's environmental management: these included
(i) the preparation of a plan for the environmental recovery of degraded areas in the water and sewerage
systems operated by CESAN (the plan, however, was not implemented); (ii) the preparation of a
management plan for solid waste in CESAN's operational water and sewerage systems and administrative
and laboratory facilities (this plan was also was not implemented); (iii) training in environmental
management and auditing; and (iv) studies, material and training for the implementation of ISO 14001
Environmental Management System (EMS) in CESAN (implementation has recently been initiated). The
project also supported CESAN's active contribution to the design of the State Water Resources
Management Law, which was passed in December 1998.

Ø        Finally, a Water Sector Shared Municipalization Program (Municipalizaçao Compartilhada) was
inserted at the end of 1997, when, in agreement with the mayors of the five municipalities of the
Metropolitan Region of Grande Vitoria (MRGV), the State Government announced plans for a radical
reform of the sector aiming at the municipalization and private concession of distribution activities (section
5.2), and prepared a joint Action Plan. It was agreed that the costs of implementing the Action Plan
(including studies for the technical feasibility of system separation, the definition of investment targets, the
financial feasibility and regulatory studies, and environmental audits) would be financed under the project,
as well as all costs of the Executive Secretariat in charge of the program. However, the scope of work was
considerably reduced in July 1998, after the State Government modified its divestiture strategy, as further
explained in section 5, and assigned the main responsibility for the task to BNDES. Actual spending
amounted to US$268,000, mostly to pay for consultants hired to staff the Secretariat. The outcome of this
sub-component, however, was negligible, because in the end no privatization took place, as discussed later
in this report.




                                                      - 19 -

4.2.3. Institutional Strengthening Component- SEAMA

Original Design This project component (US$9.0 million including contingencies) was to finance studies,
technical assistance, training, and equipment in the areas of water resources management, industrial
pollution control, collection and disposal of solid waste, conservation of ecosystems, environmental
information and environmental education. This component was considered as very important to the
project's environmental sustainability, as it would permit the monitoring of project's environmental benefits
and the supervision of the environmental performance of CESAN and other agents.

Achievements ­ Implementation of this component was the least satisfactory of the project. No activity
was implemented and no disbursement took place under the project. Between 1993 to 1999, a series of
action plans were prepared and periodically presented to the Bank. They generally included proposals on
most of the above programs. The final SEAMA action plan, which was presented to the Bank in June
1999, six months before the closing date, proposed 3 programs: (i) Water Resources Management; (ii)
Solid Waste Management; and (iii) Environmental Education, for a total estimated cost of US$4.5 million.
At that time, it was expected that CESAN would soon be privatized, and the Bank, in light of timing
constraints and past negative experience with SEAMA, proposed to include only activities essential to
efficient private participation in the water and sewerage sector, including environmental audits to define
environmental liabilities; and consultant services to review the state environmental and water management
sector regulatory frameworks, the licensing process of sanitation projects, and assist in the preparation of a
manual of technical norms; training programs in environmental auditing and environmental management
systems; and the definition and design of environmental indicators for the control and monitoring of the
concessions. However, similar to earlier action plans, these proposals were not implemented. The main
reasons for consistent failures were the lack of continuity in SEAMA's working groups (entirely contracted
out), lack of stable and motivated staff (also mostly contracted out), frequent political changes in
management and priorities, and lack of counterpart funds. Eventually, the component was cancelled when
the project was restructured in December 1999. Other reasons which made the implementation of
SEAMA's Institutional Strengthening component difficult, included: (i) only in November 1998, did
SEAMA obtain the authorization to use the Bank's bidding document and procurement procedures from
the Procuradoria Geral of the State; and (ii) although implementation of the component was the
responsibility of SEAMA, the need to report to the UGP located within CESAN, was perceived by
SEAMA as a bureaucratic hindrance and a source of conflict of interest; and (iii) some important programs
were carried out with the assistance of GTZ under an agreement between the State and the German
Government (section 5.2).


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The Internal Economic Rate of Return is re-estimated at 25% for the project as a whole, compared to 33%
at appraisal. Rates of return were re-estimated on the basis of data on Willingness-to-Pay used at
appraisal, adjusted, for sewerage, for expected lower coverage in sewage treatment compared to appraisal.
Detailed assumptions, results, and sensitivity tests are presented in Annex 3. The rate of return for the
water component is re-estimated at 55%, compared to 35% at appraisal, as Willingness to Pay remains
substantially above tariff levels. The economic rate of return for the sewerage component is re-estimated at
19%, compared to 32% at appraisal, reflecting users' and the population's substantial willingness-to-pay
for recreational benefits and environmental recovery.

The resilience of economic benefits is high. For water supply investments, the economic rate of return
would decrease to 19% should Willingness to Pay decrease to the current tariff level. For sewerage,



                                                     - 20 -

resilience is also high, as it would require a 50% decrease in all benefits for the rate of return to fall to
11%.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The Internal Financial Rate of Return for the project was re-estimated at about 3% for the project as a
whole, compared to about 15% at appraisal. The rate of return for the water component is re-estimated at
about 15%, in line with the appraisal estimate (12-18%). This rate of return was re-estimated for
CESAN's entire investment program during the period 1994-2003, consistent with the Appraisal
methodology. For sewerage, however, the re-estimated rate (-2%) is substantially lower than the appraisal
estimate (9%), due to a combination of long delays, lower tariffs, slower than expected saturation of the
treatment plants, and higher initial costs of a sewage treatment technology which is more sophisticated,
more efficient and requires less land. Detailed assumptions and calculations and a sensitivity analysis are
presented in Annex 3.

The sensitivity analysis on the rate of return of the water supply investments shows moderate sensitivity to
different assumptions on tariffs, operating costs and investment costs. For the sewerage component, the
rate of return is also relatively insensitive to most assumptions tested, except investment costs and tariffs,
but even there it would require substantial tariff increases, or treating a substantial portion of investments
as sunk costs, or a combination of both, to reach an 8 percent rate of return. In recognition of these
constraints, in 2002, the State Government assumed debt service on the Bank loan.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
CESAN

The institutional development impact of the project on CESAN was modest. As already mentioned in the
preceding section, practices and policies introduced by the project under the Institutional Development
component with respect to the use of marginal costs to determine tariff structures and increases, regular
asset revaluation, community information and education, were partially implemented but were not sustained
beyond 2000. The main efficiency, environmental and financial performance indicators of CESAN
between 1994 and 2002 are presented in Annex 1a.1. The only clear sustained achievements between 1994
and 2002 were improvements in tariffs (despite recent reversals) and productivity (water and sewerage
connections per employee), which substantially exceeded the agreed targets: connections per permanent
employee increased from 222 in 1994 to 503 in 2002 (versus a target of 324 by 1999), and connections per
permanent and temporary employee increased from 191 to 266, compared to the appraisal target of 253 by
1999. As a result, the ratio between personnel costs (permanent employees) and operating costs decreased
from 70% in 1994 to 42% in 2002, also substantially less than the agreed targets (68% by 1999). The level
of household metering has also increased significantly, from 69% in 1994 to 83% in 2002 (85% by
mid-2003), although still somewhat short of the Appraisal target of 90% by 1999.

Generally, however, CESAN has not internalized the approaches and policies introduced by the project
with respect to strategic planning, investment selection and commercial policies, and operational efficiency
has remained low. Performance has been especially disappointing with respect to the continued large
accounts receivable associated with poor collection efforts and unwillingness to suspend service to clients
in arrears. Accounts receivable have remained close to their 1994 level of 109 days of revenues (compared
to an appraisal target of 43 days by 1999) and have even increased above that level since 2000. Overdue
payments at the end of December 2002 accounted for 63% of receivables, of which 38.2% from public
sector clients. Defaults (inadimplencia) have been steadily increasing, from 10.6% in 1999 to 18.7% by
mid-2003. The level of Unaccounted-for-Water, although it decreased somewhat in 2000, has almost



                                                      - 21 -

regained its 1994 level (36.2% in 2002 compared to 39%, a long way from the appraisal target of 30% by
1999).

As a result, the overall financial situation of CESAN has not improved, and the company is still far away
from self-sufficiency, which was projected at appraisal to emerge from a combination of tariff increases,
improved efficiency and timely availability of counterpart funds from the State Government. Summarized
Financial Statements between 1994 and 2002 are presented in Annex 1a.3. During the period 1994-2002,
net income continued to be negative, except in 1995. Operating losses were progressively reduced between
1996 and 2000 and a small surplus even developed in 2000. But again, although the State Government
assumed CESAN's debt service under the loan, surpluses turned into substantial losses in 2001 and 2002,
due to large increases in payments to third parties and in energy costs.

The rate of return on assets, which was to increase to 6.5% by 1999 has remained very low throughout the
period, reaching only 0.72% in 2002. The financial structure of the company also did not exhibit the
projected improvements. The long-term debt/equity ratio in 2002 was 0.80 in 1999 (compared with the
appraisal target of 0.41) and increased to 1.3 in 2003. The liquidity position also has remained tight, above
1 only in 2002 when short-term liabilities were restructured. The poor financial position of CESAN led the
State Government to assume its debts on several occasions, first in April 1995 (R$88.7 million, to CEF),
then interest on the Bank Loan in 2000, finally the full debt service on the Bank Loan in 2002.

With respect to environmental management, the project's impact was mixed. Overall, despite recent efforts
from the new management, environmental performance of CESAN is still weak, as demonstrated by the
large proportion of water and sewerage systems still operating without environmental licenses.

                      CESAN - Status of Licenses of Water and Sewage Systems

                                   2001          2002                         2003

                                                              Total          Water         Sewage
 Systems with License               28            47            50             16            35

 Systems without License           110            111          108             76            31

 Total                             138            158          158             92            66




Environmental controls in water supply facilities are good, but still insufficient in sewerage facilities.
CESAN has yet to give priority to the implementation of plans for the management of sludge in operational
systems and to the recovery of degraded areas; to improve its environmental and operational monitoring
and control capabilities, particularly in its sewerage systems; and to start to follow up and supervise the
operational and environmental performance of the four new sewerage plants operated by the private
contractor. Since CESAN did not participate in the implementation of the successful PRODESAN phase, it
has not internalized the benefits from this experience.

On the positive side, the project contributed to CESAN's decision to implement ISO 14001. EMS will
certainly improve environmental management if it is given top priority at all levels of management.
Already, it has led to the approval of a company environmental policy and to changes in CESAN's
organization: In January 2001, CESAN upgraded its environmental advisory group to an Environmental



                                                     - 22 -

Directorate, which now includes two Departments: (i) an Environmental Department with two divisions
(Environmental Management and Water Resources); and (ii) a Waste and Development Department, also
with two divisions (solid waste and concessions) . Also, during project implementation, CESAN has been
                                                        19)


an active participant in the design of the State Water Resources Management Law, passed in December
1998, and continues to participate actively in Water Basin Committees being formed in its area of
responsability.

SEAMA

Since the SEAMA institutional development components was not implemented, the project's institutional
development impact was nil, although SEAMA did implement some of the actions needed to ensure
project's environmental sustainability, as detailed in section 5.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Project preparation, appraisal, negotiation and Board approval took place as scheduled, with only minor
delays (one month) between negotiations and Board approval. Some delays occurred between Board
approval and signing (4 months), but the Loan was declared effective in December 1994, about one month
ahead of the target date. There were considerable delays in project implementation, however. The Loan
closing date was extended 3 times, from December 31, 1999 originally, to June 30, 2003 (first, to
December 31, 2000, then to December 31, 2002, and finally to June 30, 2003).

Co-financiers

The State of Espirito Santo committed to provide counterpart funds equivalent to 27.2% of total project
costs (US$92.5 million). However, by Board approval, the European Investment Bank (EIB) had shown
interest in financing almost half of the state counterpart for the project, and the State came to rely heavily
on these funds to provide the counterpart funds required for the first years of project implementation. This
transaction, however, became entangled in difficulties during the following two years, partly for reasons
attributable to the State itself and partly due to other actors. In the end, the operation did not materialize.

The proposed loan of US$44 million was to have been EIB's first operation in Brazil. Negotiations with
EIB were completed in July 1995, however, it took almost one more year to clear legal requirements for the
federal guarantee (prior approval of a special framework agreement by Congress) and to obtain approval of
the National Treasury (in December 1995, the Federal Government granted the State of ES a loan aiming
at the recuperation of the state's financial health, but this operation conditioned the federal guarantee for
the operation with EIB to the recuperation of the state's financial health). By May 1996, the loan finally
cleared the National Treasury and was headed to Congress for approval, but in October 1996,
noncompliance with one of the clauses of a R$180 million loan from CEF caused further delays. In the
end, the State was not able to meet federal conditions of creditworthiness for its entire borrowing program.
By January 31, 1997, the deadline given by EIB, The Federal Government had decided not to guarantee the
EIB loan, as priority was given by the State to a Basic Education Project in its portfolio.


______________________________________
19)State law 6679 of May 2001 expanded the functions of CESAN to also include the collection, treatment and disposal of urban
solid waste under agreements with municipalities.




                                                           - 23 -

Factors due to the Bank.

During the first years of project implementation, the Bank sought to facilitate the flow of funds and
compensate for the lack of counterpart funds by temporarily raising disbursement percentages and
accepting projects financed by other sources as counterpart works for the project, while encouraging a
search for alternative sources of funds. Subsequently, however, even as counterpart funds were not
forthcoming to complete all the systems, the Bank continued to approve new contracts, and established
disbursement benchmarks. Early in 1997, however, when it became entirely clear that the EIB loan would
not materialize, and as periodically revised investment and disbursement targets were still not being met,
the Bank came to view privatization as the only solution to ensure achievement of project objectives.

During the mid-term review (May-June 1998), the Bank agreed with the Government on a transition
strategy towards privatization, canceling US$4 million from the institutional development component and
placing US$55 million in uncommitted funds from the loan amount on hold until June 30, 1999 (mostly
funds for the largest treatment stations and sewage transmission systems in the Grande Vitoria and
Guarapari areas). The intention was to make these funds available to the private concessionaire for the
financing of projects in low-income areas, subject to a number of conditions (section 5.2). Since
privatization did not materialize, investments in sewage transmission and treatment to connect the project's
collection networks ended up being delayed by two and a half years.

After the failure of privatization, shortly before the loan's original closing date, in December 1999, the
Bank and the State agreed on a restructuring of the project. At that point, US$50 million from the Loan
were canceled. Bank funding was halted for all activities except those civil works and consulting contracts
needed to operationalize stranded investments in sewerage networks and construct five sewage transmission
and treatment systems. Funds required for project completion, however, were under- estimated, as it
became progressively clear that the scope of additional works necessary to operationalize existing assets
was substantially larger than expected. As funds fell short again, in March 2001, the Bank refused to
reinstate US$10 million from the canceled amount. Shortly before Loan closing, the State requested
reinstatement of US$25 million, the Bank backed the request but, in June 2003, due to limitations imposed
by the Federal Government, the Bank was able to reinstate only US$12.5 million and to increase the
disbursement percentage for local expenditures on civil works to 70%. To this date, however, there are still
substantial investments needed to complete and link all collection networks built under the project to the
Grande Vitoria and Guarapari treatment plants.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Counterpart Funding

The major factor which affected the project throughout its implementation was a chronic lack of
counterpart funds from the State Government. The State was expected to provide a total of US$92.5
million (including the US$44 million from EIB), principally concentrated in the first three years of
implementation (1994 to 1996) in investments able to generate revenues quickly, so that CESAN would be
able to generate the internal cash needed for subsequent investments and improve its financial health.
Actually, the State did not provide any funds until 2001, and then only made available a total of US$11.4
million between 2001 and 2003 (12% of appraisal estimates, 24% excluding the EIB loan).

The new State Government administration, which took over in January 1995, when the loan became
effective, found the State in poor financial condition and decided to link the start of implementation of the
treatment and transmission investments of the sanitation component to the approval and effectiveness of the



                                                      - 24 -

EIB loan. The project proceeded only on the basis of Bank funds (the Bank agreed to raise disbursement
percentages until June 1997 to make up for what was hoped would be a temporary funding shortfall by the
state), limited internal cash from CESAN, and a loan from CEF which financed much of the water
expansion investments in the metropolitan area (some of the associated subprojects became part of
counterpart funds of the project). Priority was given to water supply investments and those sewage
collection networks under PRODESPOL which had already been contracted in 1994. After failing to
obtain the federal guarantee for the EIB loan, in July 1997, the State Government informed the Bank of its
inability to provide counterpart funds for the project and, given the also limited cash generation capacity of
CESAN, of its decision to bring private sector participation to CESAN by July 1998. At that point, and
until the end of 1999, works on sewerage became paralyzed due to lack of counterpart funds and to the
decision to leave the large transmission and treatment investments to the future private concessionaire.

At the end of 1999, as it had become clear that the privatization of CESAN had failed, the project was
restructured and the State made a strong commitment to provide R$3 million per month out of petroleum
royalties from January 2001 onwards towards the cost of the turnkey contract to carry out the missing
sewage transmission and treatment investments. For the first time, the State actually provided significant
counterpart funds, totaling US$11.4 million in the years 2001-2003. There were further delays (about six
months), however, as, at the end of 2001, the State fell behind in its payments to the contractor and to the
supervision firm.

Uneven Commitment to Project Goals and Environmental Preservation

None of the state administrations in power between 1995 and 2002 demonstrated the strong commitment to
environmental conservation which was apparent during project preparation. This is mostly clear in the
failure so far to articulate consistent environmental policies and construct a sate environmental secretariat
and agency with a minimum level of professional management and continuity in approaches. Furthermore,
commitment to the project itself was low between 1995 and 1999. Funds obtained by the State for basic
sanitation from the Federal Government (FGTS funds, channelled through CEF) were not assigned in
priority to provide counterpart funds for the project: in 1996 and 1997, out of a total of US$36 million,
only about US$10 million were assigned to sub-projects which could be considered as counterpart works.
The rest went for opening new work fronts across the state. Finally, the loan obtained from BNDES as an
advance on CESAN's privatization proceeds, was used by the state to pay its suppliers, not to facilitate
project implementation.

The Failed Divestiture of CESAN

The need to attract private sector participation into CESAN was first contemplated by the State
Government in 1996, in light of difficulties in contracting the EIB loan, and the critical financial situation
of the state, which led the State Assembly to pass laws approving a State Adjustment, Reform and
Privatization Program. At that time, CESAN started looking into various options, including Build Operate
and Transfer (BOT) schemes for waste water treatment plants, issuance of shares, and a sale of bonds.
Under pressing cash needs, however, in December 1996, the State Government contracted a R$115 million
loan with Brazil's National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES), as an advance on
CESAN's privatization proceeds, to support the state reform and debt restructuring program. In this
contract, the State committed to sell CESAN's shares no later than June 20, 1998, and provided CESAN's
shares as guarantee in case of default.

In mid 1997, the State Governor informed the Bank that, without EIB's funds, state finances would not
allow it to provide the counterpart financing required for project completion, and announced plans for a


                                                     - 25 -

radical reform of the sector. In the metropolitan area, this reform included the vertical separation of water
production (which would remain with CESAN) from distribution, the horizontal separation of water and
sewerage distribution/collection systems into four (later five) systems; the concession to private operators
of all distribution systems by June 30, 1998, and the establishment of proper regulation and regulatory
agencies. The initiative was supported by all five mayors of the metropolitan region , who signed a
                                                                                      20)


Protocol of Intent in August 1997. Assets were to be transferred to the municipalities, which would pay for
them out of concession proceeds. Mayors were to ultimately decide on targets and investments in their
concession area. The award of concessions would be on the basis of the highest payments (outorga) offered
by bidders. Regulation would be prepared for the entire state, and put under the responsibility of an
independent regulatory agency. The Bank supported the proposed program.

In October 1997, the institutional arrangements for what was called the "shared municipalization"
("Municipalizaçao Compartilhada") of CESAN were created. They consisted of a Sanitation Forum and a
Technical Committee, in which the state and municipal governments were represented, and an Executive
Secretariat under the Espirito Santo Development Agency (ADERES), which was responsible for carrying
out the necessary studies and the agreed action plan. The Bank agreed to assign R$487,000 from the loan,
through CESAN, to finance the preparation of the studies and the costs of the Executive Secretariat. The
Bank also helped the State to obtain assistance from the Water and Sanitation Sector Modernization
Program-PMSS, financed under another operation, which had developed expertise in similar matters.

In December 1997, PMSS hired local consultants and an international firm to help the state, free of charge,
in the preparation of a regulatory framework. PMSS also agreed to contract consultants to evaluate the
financial and economic feasibility of each concession, prepare monitoring indicators and targets, and carry
out environmental audits. In parallel, the Executive Secretariat was to prepare plans for the remaining
CESAN after privatization of the metropolitan area; review legal aspects of privatization; and structure the
State Regulatory Agency.

However, by the mid-term review (May-June 1998), progress in the implementation of the agreed action
plan was almost nil, and the State announced a radical change in its strategy. As the deadline for
repayment of the debt to BNDES was approaching, the State now decided to sell its shares in CESAN in a
single operation, and the municipalities willing to continue being served by the company would sign new
concession contracts with the new owners. BNDES supported the new strategy . Privatization would
                                                                                 21)


follow BNDES's procedures under the National Privatization Program. Although concerned with potential
conflicts of interest in the BNDES model and procedures , the Bank went along with the new strategy and
                                                            22)


agreed to reserve the uncommitted balance of the loan for the future concessionaire under conditions that
privatization bidding documents receive Bank no-objection, that an ex-ante environmental audit be carried
out, that an environmental management plan be included in the concession contract, and that an appropriate
regulatory framework be established. In August 1998, the State Assembly approved a Concession Law and
a Regulatory Law allowing the establishment of a multi-sector regulatory agency -- AGESP. The sale of
CESAN's shares would be by auction in January 1999.




____________________________________
20)Vitoria, Vila Velha, Viana, Serra and Cariacica,




                                                      - 26 -

By November 1998, BNDES had awarded the two consultant contracts, but signing was then held up for
over a year due to bureaucratic difficulties associated with their funding, then by a special audit of the
                                                    23)



contracting process initiated by the State Comptroller (Tribunal de Contas) . Furthermore, the change of
                                                                                          24)


strategy had strongly antagonized the municipalities, which felt left out of the process and of the
privatization proceeds. The municipality of Vitória declared its opposition to privatization as now planned.
In April 1998, The Municipality of Cariacica announced its intention to award its own concession, and Vila
Velha followed soon after, both on the basis of their constitutional right as conceding authority for
distribution/collection activities and the fact that their concession to CESAN had expired. Cariacica
awarded its concession and signed the concession contract in December 1999. The Municipality of Vila
Velha received offers in February 2000. The legality of both processes were challenged in court by
CESAN early in 2000, on the basis that municipal conceding rights did not apply in metropolitan areas,
and that CESAN needed to receive proper compensation for the assets. As the October 2000 municipal
elections approached, the political will of the State Government to privatize weakened. BNDES then
decided to cancel the contracting of the consultants and to re-negotiate the terms of its loan to the State
Government.

The impact of this protracted process on project implementation was large. CESAN's staff had not been
prepared for, nor involved in, privatization and opposed it. Staff morale in CESAN was considerably
affected, eroding all motivation to improve efficiency. The process also substantially slowed down project
implementation, since investments in sewage treatment and transmission were held up for a year and a half
(between May 1998 and December 1999), and the project stopped financing institutional development
programs for CESAN.

Procurement Issues

After the project was restructured in December 1999, the pending sanitation works were procured under
two major turnkey contracts for the Metropolitan Region and Guarapari, and another smaller contract for
Domingos Martins. However, procurement of the large turnkey contract took considerable time. Bids were
submitted in October 2000, evaluated, and award was expected by mid- December. Expectations were that




_________________________________________
21)BNDES had indicated earlier that they would prefer full privatization, raising issues of financial profitability of the
concessions vis a vis a single operator, time constraints, and issues of cross-subsidy policies, guarantees of universal
coverage, quality of service and equitable tariffs for all.
 22)BNDES procedures required the hiring of two consultants to value the company in parallel, one of them to also prepare the
regulatory framework. The Bank pointed out to potential conflicts of interest in having the same consultant providing
transaction support, for which it was to be paid a success fee, and preparing the regulatory framework. In particular, the Bank
suggested that this was not conducive to expansion of service to rural and low-income areas as primary targets, nor to an
incentive-based tariff structure, nor to stringent environmental standards, and proposed a different split of tasks for the
consultants to eliminate such conflicts. The Bank also recommended to carry out demand analysis early on before developing
an investment plan, an investors'survey, to establish a methodology for calculating the value of undepreciated assets at the end
of the concession period, and to assess the impact of a state water law.
23)The consultants were to be financed out of funds from PROPAR (Water Sector Privatization Technical Assistance Project), of
CEF, but, due to state arrears to BNDES, signing of their contracts required a special authorization from the Conselho
Monetario.
24)Requested by CESAN's employee union and two state deputies.




                                                              - 27 -

the works for the sewage treatment stations would take 20 months to design and build and be completed by
August/September 2002. However, the contract was only signed in March 2001 and the order to begin
work was given only in July 2001. These delays were due to challenges to the bid evaluation process: the
award proposal was to the lowest technically responsive bid, but only the fifth lowest bid overall, causing
challenges to the award by unsuccessful bidders. The Governor convened a review commission which
concluded that the bidding process had been fair and complied with national laws and Bank Guidelines.
Later on, payments were suspended, due to the poor condition of state finances encountered by the new
state administration, which took over in January 2003 . As a result, in April 2003, works were paralyzed
due to payment arrears to the project supervision firm (R$1.3 million) and contractor (R$14.3 million).
Works were eventually completed in June 2003, with a total delay of ten months relative to the original
schedule. By the closing date, the State was still in arrears in its payments to the project's main contractor.

Political Management of CESAN

State administrations have continued to consider CESAN as a political arm of the Government, not as an
autonomous utility. The abandonment of the Contract Plan in 1995 exemplifies this attitude. The state
continues to interfere with tariff management, but without clear regulatory rules. Lack of continuity in
CESAN management staff due to major overhauls with each change of administration, and political
appointments have also contributed to disruptions and changes in priorities. Tense relationships with
municipalities and lack of consultation have also characterized most of project implementation.

SEAMA

Although the State failed to provide satisfactory conditions for the implementation of the SEAMA
Institutional Strengthening component under the project, SEAMA did achieve some important progress in
several areas during the last decade, often with the assistance of GTZ under an agreement between the
State and the German Government. The most important achievements include:

Ø        The preparation of the State Water Resources Management Law, which was passed in December
1998, although it still needs to be regulated.
Ø        Improvements in laboratories.
Ø        Monitoring of water quality and coastal pollution: after being inoperative for a long period, the
water quality sampling network installed in 1989, restarted in 1998. The network currently includes 75
monitoring points in the main hydrographic basins of the state. IEMA is equipped to analyze about 50
parameters and calculate a water quality index . Also, coastal pollution on 47 main beaches along the state
                                                25)


coast is controlled through a network of 59 sampling points. Results are posted in the internet to inform the
population about water quality on each beach.
Ø        Industrial Pollution Control has improved: industrial air emissions and liquid effluent control have
improved, mainly in Vitoria, due to conditions established by the state as part of the licensing process,
compulsory independent environmental audits, and environmental agreements with the most important
industries installed in the state. Of importance was the installation of dust control systems by CST and
CVRD in their industrial facilities in Tubarao, which helped improve air quality in Vitoria and Villa Velha.
Also, a new automatic air quality monitoring network was installed in the Grande Vitoria region, as
conditions of operation licenses for both CST and CVRD. It is operated by IEMA. Also, stricter
environmental controls on liquid effluents have contributed to improved water quality in Camburi, near the
Tubarao terminal (Annex 1a.4). SEAMA/IEMA receive periodic environmental monitoring reports from
industry. However, these reports are mainly compared to norms agreed for licensing, but no historical



                                                     - 28 -

analysis is performed to assess improvements. The need for an environmental data base system and a
cadastre of polluting activities still remains critical.
Ø        Solid Waste Management: A draft State Policy for Solid Waste Management was prepared for
Espirito Santo under the National Environmental Program II (PNMA II) in 2002. This document is based
on a diagnostic of urban solid waste prepared with the help of SEAMA and municipal governments.
Ø        Institutional Aspects: The state legal environmental framework is defined in the July 22, 1988 state
law (4126) which created the State Secretariat of Environmental Affairs (SEAMA) and the State
Environmental Council. However, SEAMA was never allowed to organize a public competitive entrance
exam to recruit civil servants and was obliged to carry out its activities through an agreement with a
foundation (Fundaçao Ceciliano de Almeida --FCAA), which provided most of the technical and
management personnel SEAMA needed (in 2000, out of a total of 236 staff, 172 were provided by FCAA
and 49 were trainees). In June 2002, through Complementary Law 248, SEAMA was restructured and
became the State Secretariat of the Environment and Water Resources (also SEAMA), and an independent
state environmental agency was created (Instituto Estadual de Meio Ambiente - IEMA), with technical,
administrative and financial autonomy. Soon after its creation, IEMA absorbed most of SEAMA's staff
contracted from FCAA as part of its total staff of 253. However, in early 2003, the incoming state
administration decided to limit IEMA's independence by subordinating it to SEAMA, and
cancelled the agreement with FCAA. Currently, IEMA is contracting 173 employees under a temporary
appointment process and is preparing a public competitive entrance exam for a total of 253 permanent
staff, which is expected to take place during the first half of 2004. Under new arrangements, IEMA will be
a technical and executive environmental agency with a specialized permanent staff, and will be
subordinated to SEAMA. SEAMA is responsible for the definition of state environmental management
policies, strategic planning, norms, and relations with federal and municipal environmental agencies, as
well as with entities representing private enterprises and civil society.

Despite these achievements, much remains to be done to strengthen SEAMA/IEMA so that it is in a
position to promote efficient environmental management and regulation, help supervise the environmental
performance of private enterprises and public and private agencies, and develop public awareness. The
new administration has a full program including actions to address most of the above issues. However, it
will require much political commitment, management stability, and qualified and well-trained staff.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Counterpart Funds

CESAN provided US$53.5 million in counterpart funds, or about 85% of appraisal estimates. Funds from
internal cash, however, only totaled US$30.9 million, or 50% of appraisal estimates, mostly concentrated
in 1997 and 1998. About US$21.0 million were contributed as loans from other financing agencies,
principally CEF, for works and projects accepted as counterparts to the loan. In spite of substantial tariff
increases and staff reductions, CESAN was not able to generate sufficient funds, due to delays in project
implementation, which substantially raised costs without increasing revenues, but also lack of efficiency in
reducing UFW and improving commercial management.




_________________________________________________________
25)The Water Quality Index used by SEAMA was elaborated by the National Sanitation Foundation and adapted by Companhia
de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental (CETESB)




                                                        - 29 -

Procurement and Project Management

The PRODESPOL phase of the sanitation component was characterized by poor project planning and
implementation. By the end of 1994, 30 contracts had been signed and 11 had been initiated, but all works
were suspended until 1996, pending availability of EIB funds. These contracts were then renegotiated, but
with large increases in unit costs, to the point that the Bank requested an independent review of the
proposed adjustments. Project organization and work scheduling were faulty: the procurement plan, which
was already complex, was further fragmented into a large number of smaller contracts, to favor small local
contractors which did not always have the technical, financial and managerial capacity to efficiently
implement them. Works began along too many fronts in parallel, often at government request, with
aggregate costs much above what CESAN had traditionally managed and for which it did not have the
required supervision experience. In addition, there was no real central coordination of project management,
and procurement of materials and civil works was done separately by different divisions within CESAN,
each with its own schedules and requirements . The Project Coordination Unit (UGP) acted more as a
                                                     26)


bureaucratic reporting channel for the Bank than as an effective coordinator. There were long bureaucratic
delays in procurement (4 to 6 months to conclude bidding processes, even uncomplicated ones).
Supervision and control of contract implementation was faulty. In October 1996, the Bank recommended
that CESAN should study integrated management of the project by a single area, and, for treatment plants
which had not yet been procured, to study alternatives to what had been planned at appraisal, such as
turnkey contracts and BOT. In December 1996, CESAN agreed to hire a special adviser to help with
project supervision, but this was not sufficient.

After the responsibility for implementation of the PRODESAN phase was transferred to the State
Secretariat of Works and Transport, at the end of 1999, CESAN's performance continued to be
disappointing: It did not maintain the works already implemented properly and did not plan ahead to
prepare networks constructed under the PRODESPOL phase to ensure proper interface with treatment
plants and mains . It did not participate actively in the follow up of implementation, and it did not
                    27)


promote campaigns in time to ensure that beneficiaries would connect to sewage collection systems when
new STP's were ready. Finally, it has yet to prepare itself to deal with/ and supervise the contractor in the
operation of the treatment plants.

Lack of clear institutional goals.

There has been uneven commitment on the part of CESAN's management and staff to the goals supported
under the project's institutional development component. Subordination to political motives has affected
CESAN's performance in the areas of bill collection (unwillingness to suspend service) and tariffs
increases according to a clear set of rules. CESAN did not internalize the project's concepts of marginal
cost pricing and investment selection criteria into a strengthened strategic planning function. The
performance of CESAN was also impacted by the long drawn privatization process, during which
institutional progress made earlier was not sustained, as staff morale was low and budgets tight. Since
2000, there has even been backsliding on many institutional indicators, as discussed earlier, reflected in
CESAN's financial position. The new management of CESAN (since the beginning of 2003) is making
considerable efforts to revert the situation but these efforts will require continuity and independence to
produce sustainable results.
__________________________________________
26)In October 1996, a Bank mission reported that four different areas od CESAN were involved in project coordination and
management, plus contracted supervision and management firms, involving at times 120 persons for civil works, plus
personnel involved in procurement of materials. There was, in addition, a large number of smaller contract ("crecimento
vegetativo") handled directly by the Operation area.



                                                             - 30 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total actual project costs amounted to US$182.9 million, or 59.4% of appraisal estimates and 94.3% of
cost estimates after the project was restructured. Detailed costs and financing plans by component and
procurement modes are presented in Annex 2. Allocation of these costs among components was relatively
close to the appraisal cost structure, except for project management and supervision, which was higher:
28% were spent on water supply investments (30% at appraisal), 64% on sewerage (62% at appraisal), 5%
on project management and supervision (2% at appraisal), and 5% on institutional strengthening (6% at
appraisal).

The financing structure of the project, however, diverged substantially from the agreed financing plan.
While Bank funds actually used were only 73% of the loan amount, they represented 61.5% of total
financing, versus only 50% planned at appraisal. CESAN also contributed more than its original share of
financing (29.5% versus 20% at appraisal) but a large portion (38%) of CESAN's counterpart funds
actually consisted of expenditures on works financed by CEF and accepted by the Bank as counterpart
funds. In absolute terms, CESAN's contribution was 87.6% of appraisal estimates. The State Government,
however, fell substantially short of its commitments, contributing only 9% of total costs (excluding interest
during construction), compared to 30% agreed at appraisal, and only 17.9% of appraisal estimates in
absolute terms. The Government, however, by absorbing the debt service on the Bank loan during
construction, also assumed payment of interest during construction.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Overall, sustainability of project achievements is rated as likely. There are, however, considerable
uncertainties. This rating is justified in light of current transition arrangements for future operation, and
the fact that the current administration is actively seeking financing to complete project installations.

Rationale for Sustainability Rating

The likelihood of maintaining the project's financial and economic benefits of project investments is
substantial for water supply investments, but uncertain for the Program to Reduce Unaccounted-for-Water
(PANF) and sewerage investments. Water supply investments are supported by long experience within
CESAN and generally adequate tariff levels providing adequate returns. Despite high levels of metering,
however, benefits from PANF were not sustained, as water losses have not been reduced. Most benefits
from the project's sewerage investments have yet to materialize, as, at the time of preparation of the ICR,
the four major treatment plants had just started to operate, but with very low sewage inflows. Where
connections are available, the networks provided under the project have yet to be physically connected to
houses and buildings, and much remains to be done in the coming years to convince and/or compel users to
modify their installations to effectively connect to the network; to recover inoperative connections; and to
allocate sufficient funds to include stranded networks and expand collection to saturate the treatment
facilities as fast as possible. Financial sustainability of sewerage investments will also depend on the
consistent application of tariffs reflecting marginal costs, that is, on political willingness to compensate for
tariff erosion and eliminate temporary concessions to encourage new user connections.
_______________________________________
27)3 contracts for cleaning and recuperation of networks were contracted at the end of 2001 by CESAN out of its own
resources. However, by December 2002, work had not started, due to failure to obtain municipal environmental licenses on
time. Works actually started only in February 2003, almost a year after signature of the contracts.



                                                            - 31 -

Although many uncertainties persist, sustainability of environmental benefits is likely. Environmental
benefits are expected to increase over time as coverage of sewage treatment increases, although the pace of
progression will depend on how long CESAN takes to connect the stranded systems and complete the
systems until their saturation. Environmental sustainability of project installations will also depend on how
well they are managed. In this respect, sustainability is likely during the next three years given the strong
environmental provisions in the operator's contract. Accountability for environmental results was
strengthened by the innovative design of the turnkey contract with a build and operate structure, which
makes achieving treatment targets far more likely than would be possible under public management. In
such cases, a private operator may be more easily held accountable for environmental performance than a
public enterprise. A decision is expected soon as to whether CESAN will sub-contract operations again or
take over operations, in which case CESAN has sufficient time to organize itself. Monitoring results of the
Camburi system, which is operated by CESAN, are satisfactory. Finally, the environmental performance
of CESAN as well as other actors with an impact on water quality (including solid waste and industrial
pollution) also depends on a strong SEAMA, which the project has failed to reinforce and which, despite
some improvements, remains extremely fragile. Pressure from municipalities, which are keen in demanding
improvements, is likely to compensate for these weaknesses, at least in part. Sustainability of social
benefits is likely with respect to water supply investments, but uncertain with respect to sewerage, as there
is currently no plan to provide financial assistance to the poor for connections within the houses.

Institutional benefits within CESAN were not sustained. While disruptions due to the protracted attempt
to privatize are certainly among the reasons, lack of continuity, political interference in CESAN's
management, lack of governance, and failure to enlist the support of municipalities were major factors. In
the absence of proper water resources policies, sector regulation and increased local participation, these
weaknesses are likely to persist.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The new State administration and the new CESAN management team which took over in January 2003
have declared their intention to address many of these issues. The State Government has again changed the
organization structure of SEAMA and is preparing to hire a substantial number of permanent staff in 2004.
It has declared the implementation of a water resources policy a State priority. CESAN's new management
has also already taken steps to address some of the large institutional deficiencies: It is implementing a
drastic cost reduction program (all costs, except personnel); it has declared reduction of UFW and defaults
(inadimplencia) a company priority, and created a division within Operations with the exclusive task of
designing, carrying out and evaluating loss reduction programs. It is actively seeking financing to complete
the project and has requested an additional loan from the Bank.

With respect to the project's sewerage systems, operation during the coming three years will be the
responsibility of the turnkey contractor, but beyond that period, CESAN has yet to decide whether
operation will be contracted out again or integrated into its operations. CESAN's President has established
a new sewerage division, which for the moment will respond directly to him, and will be staffed with
qualified professionals (competitive recruitment is planned for 2004). This team will be in charge of
supervising the contractor/operator of the treatment plants ensuring proper interface between the collection
networks (operated by CESAN) and the treatment plants; planning and organizing the subcontracting of
operations after in the initial three-year contract, or organizing the take-over of the systems. It will later be
transformed into a Directorate. Sanitary education campaigns were re-initiated, to promote effective



                                                       - 32 -

connection of users to the project network. Finally, environmental sustainability of CESAN's operations
will be greatly enhanced if current plans to establish environmental management systems along ISO 14001
norms continue to be pursued.

The performance indicators by which the project can be monitored and evaluated in the future are presented
in Annex 1. Long-term impact indicators should also include health indicators (infant mortality, incidence
of water-borne diseases) and environmental indicators (indices of water quality) in the main rivers and
beaches in the project's area of influence.

The state government has requested an additional loan from the Bank. Although the State and CESAN's
institutional performance under this project have been disappointing, the current administration has been
demonstrating renewed commitment. Despite substantial risks, a Bank follow-up operation would help
guarantee that sufficient funds are available to ensure the sustainability of considerable investments, as
long as its design carefully draws on lessons of experience, as summarized in section 8.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance in the identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the project was satisfactory
. Overall design was very good, with all major technical, financial, economic, institutional, social and
environmental aspects well addressed. The project continues to be relevant to current state and Bank
strategies. The project was processed without delay, preparation assistance was intense, with six missions
from identification through appraisal, over a period of one year. Teams had good quality and continuity
and had the required range of expertise. Design addressed Bank safeguard policies appropriately, internal
consistency of its various components and covenants was high, and it was well grounded in sector work. It
took into account lessons of experience in other Bank operations in the sector, in particular the need for
effective financial and corporate autonomy and emphasis on cost recovery and operational efficiency, and
emphasis on river basins. All project risks were well identified and critical factors to ensure sustainability
were addressed. Considerable attention was paid to the design of performance and impact indicators.

The project, however, was over-ambitious, given the small size and limited financial capacity of the state.
In retrospect, the Bank should have better analyzed the state's creditworthiness, although some factors
could not be foreseen (impact of Plano Real and Kandir Law on state finances). Project design should also
have made more allowance for political risks, in particular risks of changes in priorities and approaches
from one administration to the other: the state administration at the time of appraisal had demonstrated
strong commitment to the sector through substantial budgetary transfers, but this had not been the case
with previous governments. These risks could have been addressed by dividing the project into
self-contained stages (for instance scheduling sanitation work by hydrographic basin), and completing all
collection and treatment phases satisfactorily before moving to the next phase. The procurement plan
which was discussed at appraisal did not adopt this approach. Given the large counterpart funding
requirements, co-financing from EIB should have been secured by effectiveness. Finally, the SEAMA
institutional strengthening component should have had its own project implementation unit, within SEAMA
itself, not within CESAN. This could have helped minimize the perception of conflicts of interest and the
impact of constant political, policy, and personnel changes within SEAMA on project implementation.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory overall. Missions were frequent, two to four per year,


                                                     - 33 -

and continuity in Bank staff was excellent, with the same task manager remaining from project
identification to completion. A total of 26 missions visited Espirito Santo to supervise project
implementation (compared to 17 in the supervision plan), close to 3 per year, as in the supervision plan.
Team composition had a good range of expertise. The mid-term review was very comprehensive. Quality
of reporting was very good and identified all the major issues.

During the first two years of project implementation, The Bank was slow to perceive the need for
substantial restructuring. The Bank was initially very accommodating. While awaiting funding from EIB,
it sought to facilitate the flow of funds by increasing disbursement percentages and accepting other projects
as counterpart works, so that a large number of contracts already procured in 1994 could proceed. When
the new administration abandoned the contract-plan in 1995, the Bank did not press for compliance with
the Government's obligation to periodically revise it in agreement with the Bank. Until June 1997, the
Bank continued to press for faster project implementation, establishing disbursement targets to catch up
with delays, always with the conviction that the EIB loan would eventually be approved and that other
funds from CEF/FGTS would also be available. During that period, the Bank accepted the fragmentation
of contracts proposed by CESAN and encouraged the re-activation of contracts which had been on hold
since early 1995. Only in October 1996 did the Bank start to recognize that the administrative, financial
and technical capacities of CESAN and the state were initially overestimated, that CESAN should
concentrate administrative, financial and technical efforts to complete the investment program already
under execution, and to begin to study ways of reducing the loan. In October 1996, the Bank also realized
that CESAN's project management structure was inadequate and recommended changes in the procurement
plan for the treatment plants.

After the decision to privatize CESAN was announced, the Bank spent considerable time and effort to try
to ensure that privatization would be carried out on a sound basis. In particular, the Bank insisted that a
proper regulatory framework should be developed as a precondition, and brokered support from PMSS to
that effect. When the Government changed its privatization strategy and entrusted it to BNDES, the Bank
sought to influence the process by raising a number of issues and using the balance of the loan as leverage
to press for adequate preparation (section 5.2).

In order to ensure that stranded investments would be operationalized, the Bank demonstrated considerable
flexibility by accepting a substantial restructuring of the project, authorizing three closing date extensions,
and reinstating previously cancelled loan proceeds as the State Government's performance and commitment
to the project improved. After the project was restructured in December 1999, the Bank was very
proactive in ensuring that the large turnkey contracts were procured in compliance with Bank safeguards;
assisting in the bidding process; supporting the State Government to resolve problems with the State
Comptroller (Tribunal de Contas); and improving the relationship between the state government and the
municipalities. The Bank also played an important role in ensuring compliance with safeguard policies, in
particular with respect to the Paneleiras. The Bank brokered the agreement between the state government
and the Paneleiras, acted as a witness to the agreement, and subsequently ensured compliance with its
terms.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Bank performance is rated as satisfactory overall.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:




                                                      - 34 -

Performance of the State Government and of CESAN during project preparation was highly satisfactory,
Both demonstrated a high level of commitment to the project and the sector. All studies and action plans
necessary to prepare the project and initiate implementation were prepared and approved without delay,
including environmental assessments, models of water quality in rivers and bays, and environmental action
plans and institutional development programs for both SEAMA and CESAN. Required legislation and
agreements were also submitted and approved as necessary: These included the submission to the State
Assembly of a law to create a State Environmental Institute under SEAMA, which was approved in
January 1994, the signing of a compensation agreement with the Paneleiras, and the preparation and
signing of an improved Contract Plan (September 4, 1994). Between 1991 and 1993, the State
demonstrated a strong commitment to sanitation, with average state transfers to CESAN of US$13.6
million per year (compared to US$1.2 million between 1988 and 1990). Regarding indebtedness, the state
had at that point a positive balance with the federal government (October 1993). At the end of its mandate,
however, the State administration did overstretch its borrowing capacity. In June 1994, the Federal
Government expressed reservations as to the State's capacity to contribute the required counterpart funds
for both the project and a Basic Education Project (both with the Bank).

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The performance of the State Government as the Borrower and financier during most of the project
implementation period (1995 through 1999) was highly unsatisfactory, as it failed to transfer any
counterpart funds to CESAN for the project. Early in implementation, the State rejected its own
commitments under the Contract Plan and continued to interfere in CESAN's management decisions and
staffing. Substantial funds which were contracted from other sources (CEF) were not assigned to the
project, but were used to initiate other works, spreading the already thin implementation capacity of
CESAN even thinner. While the decision to privatize CESAN would have been a viable option, the
privatization process was fraught with problems due to sudden changes of strategy, lack of participation of
municipalities, and conflicts of interest within the state itself and BNDES. After project restructuring in
2000, performance improved but overall, the provision of counterpart funds fell considerably short of
original plans.

The performance of the State improved substantially in the year 2000 and until project completion in June
2003. As implementing agency of the project's second phase, performance of the state government
(SEDIT) was satisfactory. Against multiple odds, the decision to procure the sewerage treatment and
transmission infrastructure under large turnkey contracts was courageous, and so was the decision to
transfer the responsibility for procurement and contract administration from CESAN to the State
Secretariat of Transport and Public Works (SEDIT). The contracting of an experienced project
management firm to monitor and supervise contract implementation for the government was also efficient.
The PRODESAN project team was highly committed and this strategy was effective, despite allegations
that costs were too high. The State also finally contributed counterpart funds, although still short of
requirements and with further delays. State performance was not without some failings, however, including
the exclusion of CESAN from the project, which resulted in a faulty interface between the PRODESAN
and PRODESPOL phases of the project, delaying the start of operation and sewage system connections.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of CESAN (the implementing agency) overall was unsatisfactory. Initially, though, it
was satisfactory. By the end of 1996, CESAN had contracted all the major institutional development
studies and started implementing their recommendations (tariffs, asset revaluation, staff retrenchment,
environmental management, sanitary education). Until 1999, CESAN also provided significant counterpart



                                                     - 35 -

funds, though less than originally planned. Progress essentially came to a halt, however, when the
Government announced its intention to privatize CESAN and funding for new investments as well as
institutional development stopped and staff morale and commitment dropped. Since 2000, a number of
institutional and financial indicators have even worsened, as the company became increasingly politicized
during the latter half of the administration in office from 1999 to 2002.

CESAN's performance with respect to project management was unsatisfactory. Lack of counterpart funds
from the State explains the paralyzation of works in the initial years, but not CESAN's poor internal
coordination and planning and long procurement delays. Until the end of 1999, when responsibility for
project implementation was transferred to the state government, financial management was unsatisfactory:
audit reports consistently reported CESAN's failure to provide adequate internal controls and implement an
accounting system for control of project expenditures. After the responsibility for project implementation
was transferred to the State, CESAN signed three contracts from its own resources (section 5.2), to ensure
that the sewage collection networks financed under PRODESPOL could be ready for operation as soon as
the treatment plants were ready. However, in December 2002, work had not started due to failure to obtain
municipal environmental licenses on time. Works finally started only in February 2003. Furthermore, only
in 2003, did CESAN resume programs to persuade users to connect to the installed network. Finally,
until 2003, it had not sought to organize itself internally to manage and supervise the complex treatment
installations it would receive, nor to train and recruit specialized personnel for that purpose.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Unsatisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

Many lessons, positive as well as negative, can be drawn from the complicated history of this project and
issues which emerged during its long implementation.

Project Design

Ø        In states with an uneven track record of creditworthiness and commitment, political and financial
risks can be mitigated by planning project implementation in self-contained phases, for instance, for
sanitation investments, by sub-basin systems, and by requiring the prior deposit of the necessary
counterpart funds for each phase into an escrow account. Such a strategy would ensure that revenues are
generated at the completion of each phase to ensure its financial sustainability, avoiding large stranded
investments, as happened under PRODESPOL.

Ø        If co-financing is critical to the project, it is important that it should be secured by loan signing, or
by effectiveness, and that no procurement should take place on a large scale until then.

Ø        Strong environmental institutions are necessary to ensure environmental sustainability of sanitation
projects. When a strengthening program is necessary, it will be effective only if the institution already has
a sufficient staff of permanent civil servants and budget, in addition to a clear vision of its objectives and
appropriate strategy to achieve them. Furthermore, the coordination and management of that program
should be independent, and in any case not under the responsibility of a project unit located within a
regulated entity.

Ø        Programs to control Unaccounted-for-Water work only where companies are financially



                                                         - 36 -

autonomous and have the right incentive to reduce costs. These programs must receive top priority from
upper management, with clear targets established for each component, strong central oversight, and
incentives and penalties associated with performance in all the company's areas. They also require detailed
diagnostics as to the source of losses to guide the program in each system. Implementation of these
programs should be given top priority by the Bank, by conditioning expansion investments in water
production and treatment to satisfactory implementation of these programs. Unfortunately, UFW reduction
programs rarely have a lasting impact in public utilities subjected to political pressures, since gains can be
quickly lost when a new management team takes over.

Ø        Achieving and sustaining the environmental and social benefits of sewerage investments might best
be ensured by providing kits to the poor as part of the project for connections inside the houses, which
could be recovered through tariffs over time.

Project Implementation and Management

Ø        Local Governments should be substantially involved in the preparation and implementation of
projects in their municipality. Besides facilitating project acceptance and collaboration during
implementation, mayors have a key role as interlocutors with residents in project areas, in issuing
construction work permits, and as conceding power.

Ø        The procurement plan should be adapted to the capacity and experience of the implementing
agency. The experience under the PRODESPOL and PRODESAN phases has shown that, in cases where
such capacity is lacking, it may be best to minimize the number of procurement packages and contracts.

Ø        Contrary to what happened in CESAN, where project implementation was divided among many
departments, the responsibility for project planning, contracting, implementation, and flow of funds should
be concentrated within a single project management unit with all necessary powers and controls, like in the
PRODESAN phase. The project management unit should also include a team of environmental and social
specialists to deal with environmental and social aspects and supervise the implementation of the
environmental and social plans. The project UGP did not include such specialists during the PRODESPOL
phase.

Ø        Projects should be restructured early, as soon as critical issues emerge, such as, in this project,
counterpart funding and political commitment. In these cases, the mid-term review should be advanced if
necessary.

Corporate Autonomy and Private Sector Participation

Ø        Contract plan strategies to ensure financial and managerial autonomy of public companies are not
efficient and very fragile instruments when there is no local culture for it, and when they can be easily
canceled or overlooked by subsequent administrations.

Ø        Private sector participation in the operation of water and sanitation infrastructure in states with
generally poor governance was viewed as, and probably remains, the best option. However, private
concession are difficult as long as legal competence issues remain between different levels of government
(state and municipalities in metropolitan areas). The establishment of an adequate regulatory framework
and regulatory agency enhances prospects for efficient system operation by the private sector.

Ø        Conflicts of interest in the privatization process undermined CESAN's privatization. It might have


                                                      - 37 -

been more successful if the proposed privatization model had been structured to secure maximum
investment and coverage at reasonable tariffs instead of maximizing proceeds to the state government.

Environmental and Social Aspects

Ø        Environmental specifications and the obligation to address environmental requirements from
environmental agencies should be clearly specified in the bidding documents and considered part of the
construction (and operation if it is the case) contract, as it was the case for the turnkey contracts for the
four large sewerage treatment plants.

Ø        Experience with the Paneleiras under the project demonstrated that the best alternative to minimize
negative social impacts is to design treatment plants to minimize these impacts, and integrate compensation
programs into the project.

Ø        As in PRODESAN, the project should include funding to implement required mitigation measures,
such as reforestation of river banks, environmental education programs, social compensation programs, and
other activities.

Ø        Ensuring early involvement of impacted communities and a constant flow of information to them
helps address and mitigate potential impacts adequately and improve project acceptance by the community.
The paneleiras social issue, which was identified early during project preparation, was successfully
addressed by the project.

Bank Role

Ø        Development in important sectors such as water and sanitation is difficult and requires
determination, flexibility and creativity on the part of the Bank. In unsatisfactory projects in which large
investments become stranded, the Bank needs to remain involved in the project, restructuring it as
necessary, to ensure that these investments are operationalized and real development impact is achieved.

Ø        The project exemplifies the need for active participation of social specialists in all phases of project
preparation and implementation. From the start, the Bank voiced strong support for a compensation
program for the Paneleiras. This support, including the participation of a Bank community development
specialist at critical times, contributed to the reaching of an agreement between the state government and
the Paneleiras, and to substantial compliance with the terms of this agreement.




9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

   The following comments have been provided by the State Government of Espirito Santo and have been
   incorporated with only minor linguistic edits.

   9. 1. Introduction:




                                                       - 38 -

    The Project preparation began around 1993, when the State, after the Eco-92 summit, quickly
    started negotiations with the World Bank, involving CESAN and SEAMA, motivated to look for
    alternatives to solve the serious social and environmental problems installed in the State main urban
    areas, which were accumulated throughout the time and constituted serious threats to the water
    resources.

     To effect the desired change, the staff involved in the Project preparation designed an ambitious
     investment program, contracted to the value of US$ 308.0 million, with the IBRD participation of
     US$ 154.0 million and of an equal value of local counterpart, it being to the account of Espirito
     Santo State the financial participation of US$ 92.5 million and of CESAN the amount of US$ 61.5
     million.

     The Project development and implementation period was initially planned for 1994 ­ 1999. The
     Loan Agreement was signed with the IBRD on October 28, 1994, but the works only started in
     September 1996. The expected completion term was December 1999, but it was extended and
     completed on June 30, 2003.

     The Project's financial execution support was calculated and structured in one sole premise: the
     resource allocation by the State in the counterpart of, at least, the execution of the 4 (four) main
     sewage systems, programmed to start operating still in the intermediate phase of the Project
     implantation, which would produce enough income to guarantee, among other obligations, the
     continuation of the activities and the payment of contract obligations with the IBRD. Without the
     contribution of the necessary resources and without the execution of other agreements and
     suggestions, CESAN started some activities in an isolated and fragmented way, losing the
     characteristics of the original conception. The same systems were completed together with the
     termination of the Loan Agreement.

     CESAN was in charge of the Project execution and management, while it was still named
     PRODESPOL, since its conception in 1993 until the original contractual term, December 1999. As
     of January 2000, the State became directly in charge of the execution, through SEDIT, to
     implement the Project sequential phase, PRODESAN, that had priority to complement the main
     sewage systems, paralyzed since December 1998.



9. 2. Project Objective:

     The Project included actions for the reduction of environmental degradation effects and the recovery
     of the qualitative and quantitative water conditions, through physical and institutional development
     programs, focusing on the maintenance and on the guarantee of investment sustainability. In its
     approach, it has been an innovative proposition for the State. The Project's objectives and goals
     were centered on the following bases:

      1. To improve the population's life quality, with the priority focused on the Grande Vitória and
      Guarapari Region, through the recovery and expansion of the basic sanitation infrastructure,
      with the following goals:
      · An increase of the treated water supply from 91% to 93%, including some counties in the State
               countryside;
      · A reduction in the water loss rate (physical and financial) in the Grande Vitória and Guarapari
               Region, respectively from 42.1% and 47.7%, to a 24% level;
      · An expansion of the sewage services coverage in the CESAN covered area, from 11% registered
      at the time to 56%, which would correspond to an increase of such services in the State
      from 32% to 43%


                                                  - 39 -

      2. To develop SEAMA's institutional capacity for sustainable environmental management,
      through the introduction of monitoring instruments and integrated management.
      3. To improve CESAN's enterprise management activities with a focus on operational and
      financial quality to ensure the sustainability of the Project's actions throughout time.



9. 3. Implantation process evaluation:

     Since the beginning of its implementation, the Project moved on with significant changes in the
     financial and institutional arrangements, which were proposed and previously agreed upon between
     the involved institutions. Throughout the executive phase, the Project was submitted to an
     unfavorable political environment with strong and negative interferences on CESAN. As the
     evaluation tasks were being developed, the main obstacles and their consequences were also being
     identified, centered on: the high value of the credit operation; the lack of accomplishment of the
     obligations assumed by the State, especially the discontinuance of the co-financing operation with
     the EIB; CESAN's low capacity for generating funds for the Project development; the changes in
     the project management model and in the bidding and contracting procedures; the starting of several
     work sites for sewage system construction without the required counterpart funds and only through
     the collecting networks without the construction of treatment plants; CESAN's low capacity for
     execution and management, particularly in directing the Company and the project management
     components in the initial PRODESPOL phase.
     In December 1999, the IBRD accepted a contractual amendment canceling 30% of the loan value
     with the Project reordering exclusively directed towards the completion of the paralyzed works and
     with direct execution by the State, through SEDIT. The satisfactory results reached during this
     stage named PRODESAN are linked to the return to the standard project management model and
     the IBRD's effective support throughout its execution. In June 2001 the works were started,
     together with a new and successful bidding concept for large investments in the sanitation sector, in
     the turnkey manner. The advantages deriving from such a decision certainly were coherent
     measures to minimize the negative effects of the previous stage.
     The agreement with the IBRD established that the Government must bear the cost of a significant
     part of the works to support the Project execution and have the debt service all paid by CESAN.
     With the disruption of the financial engineering, right in the beginning of the Project, the State
     acknowledged its responsibility for the situation left in CESAN and assumed the whole of the
     contractual obligations.




     The financial evaluation studies carried out indicate the need for a significant rise in CESAN's
     tariffs to cover operational and investment costs, on a level incompatible with its clients' payment
     capacity, which would be impossible and unfair with the society.
     The initial circumstances and the lack of an effective management contributed for the potential
     risks, which were identified in the previous studies, to be installed in the contractual execution,
     occasioning interruptions, temporary suspension of resources, and reductions in the Project size and
     value in at least 40%.


9. 4. Financial execution:

     The contractual financial evolution is detailed in the following Table and contemplates the reduction


                                                   - 40 -

     in the loan value, which occurred in the Mid Term Mission, of US$ 4.0 million and in the
     negotiations for extension of the first "closing date", December 1999, in the amount of US$ 50.0
     million. Later, in December 2002, the value of US$ 12.5 million was reinstated for completion of
     works.

         Table 01 ­ Evolution of Contractual Financial Execution (Values in US$ Million)
                                                                                                         %
            Sources                                                           Contractual Accomplished   Of
                                                                                                       Appraisal
            World Bank
                                 Appraisal                                        154,000
                                 Reprogrammed                                     112,500     112,495    73
            Local Counterpart (*)
                                 Appraisal                                        154,000
                                 Reprogrammed                                       81,463     70,373    46
            Total
                                 Appraisal                                        308,000
                                 Reprogrammed                                     193,963     182,868    59
                                                                                                         %
            Uses                                                              Contractual Accomplished   Of
                                                                                                       Appraisal
                           Water Supply                                            82,359      40,070    49
                           Sewage                                                 190,719     116,553    61
                           Operational Development                                  11,388      6,688    59
                           CESAN Institutional Development                           8,759      3,035    35
                           SEAMA Institutional Development                           9,191
                Components Works Management and Survey                               5,584      8,914   160
                           Others (Expropriations and Productivity Efficiency
                           Program)                                                             7,608
            Total                                                                 308,000     182,868    59



        (*) Includes investments made by other sources accepted as counterpart works, in the amount of
     US$ 20,666 million.

9. 5. Analysis of reached benefits and main achievements:

     Under a global view, with all the diversities and difficulties that had to be faced, the Project came to
     its completion with satisfactory results. The Grande Vitória Metropolitan Region, counts on 4
     (four) high technology sewage treatment plants and with an available capacity for expanding the
     coverage level of sewage services, from the 31% reached with the Project, to 60 %, with low
     investments. The water supply service coverage rate had a significant rise, of almost 5%, reaching
     the current level of 95.6%.
     The actions carried out by the Project have benefited a significant part of the low-income
     population, despite the reduction of the physical goal, in which many foreseen interventions were
     not executed.
     In the cost-benefit studies carried out, the Project economic return (TIRE) reaches 25% against the
     initially expected 33%, while the financial return (TIRF) was only 3% instead of the 15% expected



                                                                   - 41 -

initially, a reflection of the physical goal reduction and of the low performance of the ventures
carried out in such component.
CESAN's consolidated economic return shows a TIRE of 55% for water investments and of 19%
for sewage investments, significant results when compared to the projected estimates of 35% and
32% respectively. The water component TIRF calculation considering the whole of CESAN's
investment program reached 25%. The financial return of ventures carried out in sewage by the
Project shows a result of 0.8%, much below the estimated 9%.
The cost-benefit analyses carried out for each one of the main executed systems indicate an ample
availability of the treatment capacity. The complementary investments necessary for the functioning
of the networks and connections that are inoperative and the costs for the execution of the STP's
comprising basin collection system complementation, among others that might enhance the use of
such treatment plants, are object of the new Project proposal and have the priority, for the
immediate condition of expanding the reach of the social-economical-environmental benefits and to
allow financial profitability in a shorter term.

The Project supported the following components:

Water Supply Component:
The Project allowed CESAN to reach 93% water coverage at the end of 1999, 94.4% in 2003 and
95.6% in 2004. New connections were 15% higher than expected, but actions to address rationing
were impaired by the failure to execute all programmed investments.

Sewage Component:
The Project's main component, the works initially designed to produce in the Grande Vitória and
Guarapari Region an increment of 32% in sewerage coverage, reached the rate of 14% of the
desired result. Overall, the Project was planned to reach a coverage level of 50% in CESAN's
service area for a population estimated in 770.000 people at the end of 1999. The benefits reach
around 254,000
people, 33% of the expected number. There are 6 (six) fully built systems against the expected 10
(ten), 4 in the Grande Vitória Metropolitan Region, including Guarapari.

Operational Development Component:
The Unaccounted-for-Water Program ­ PANF was designed to optimize the Grande Vitória and
Guarapari water supply services and to contribute towards the rise of the level of income required
for full project implementation. Although household metering has increased from 69% in 1994 to
87% in 2003, important physical interventions and management measures foreseen in the action
plan have not been executed, keeping overall losses at high levels. The recent pilot-projects
developed by CESAN based on the Project studies, have shown excellent results and are inserted in
the Company's planning, constituting investment references for operational efficiency.

CESAN Institutional Development Component:
The proposed concept of an institutional development program ceased to exist due to the effects of
the political environment. The carried out and applied studies were very few. The IBRD itself did
not demand the effectiveness of the Contract Plan formalized between the State and CESAN,
according to what was planned, and which would make the Company move towards a more
autonomous management. The situation of weak governance at the time, also would not allow any
advancement in such process. The low performance of such activity and the unavailability of
counterpart resources motivated the IBRD, during the Mid Term Survey Mission, to cancel US$
4.0 million of that component.


                                               - 42 -

     SEAMA Institutional Development Component:
     The successive sub-project alteration attempts provoked by changes in the SEAMA leadership
     occasioned discontinuity and lack of integration among the agents, resulting in the non-execution of
     this component. The absence of a SEAMA coordination, specific for such component, in the
     management model applied by UGP/CESAN, also was one of the important negative factors
     pointed out and identified as a conflict of interest. The applying of the bidding model required by
     the Bank was also recorded as a difficulty. The absence of SEAMA in the Project implementation is
     considered as a fact of relevant concern for the environmental management sustainability. Such
     theme is qualified as priority in the new Project with the World Bank.



9. 6. Performance of institutions directly involved with the Project implantation:

     The directly involved institutions could not endeavor any efficient solution to push the Project in its
     first contractual phase and only in the negotiations for the closing date extension, a consistent
     measure was adopted with priority to complement the unfinished works. The good conducting of the
     negotiations for the Project restructuring process showed coherence and discipline on the part of
     CESAN, the State and the Bank's technical staff to arrive at satisfactory results.

     World Bank:
     In all the Project execution phases the Bank was present, proposing actions towards the operation's
     success. Throughout the execution its concern is demonstrated in staffing the missions with
     specialized consultants in a constant attempt to contribute towards the establishment of proper
     technical strategies for management improvement. One of the important failures was in the Bank's
     exaggerated optimism as to the size of the operation for a State that had no history of such nature.
     The Bank had recently authorized the PMSS I operation, to the value of US$ 250.0 million,
     financing three state sanitation companies, among them EMBASA, a much larger company than
     CESAN. The Bank also failed in not submitting the Project to a more energetic action to the
     cumulative effects of the State's frail political administrations, keeping itself in a compensatory
     measure attitude, yielding to important changes believing in reaction. In the PRODESAN phase,
     the Bank knew how to make use of the lessons and of its experience, changing its form of action,
     from the Project closing date negotiations until its closing. The Bank knew how to react and came
     to have a more effective participation, attacking in an efficient way the first stage problems,
     requiring a standard and autonomous project management unit, making its specialists' knowledge
     more available to push processes, and introducing the turnkey bidding and contracting manner,
     making up in this way, the Bank's great difference in the conducting of this final stage of the
     Project.

     State Government:
     It was through the State that the Project suffered its greatest difficulties. The negative interferences
     of the last 3 (three) state administrations considerably affected Project execution, which kept an
     important dependence of government actions for its success, not only in the counterpart funds, but
     also in the support to the structuring of a CESAN with business autonomy and with performance
     efficiency goals. The beginning of the operation contracting process was marked by exaggerated
     optimism, followed by interest conflicts without efficiency objectives. Some disorganized and
     fragmented attempts to privatize CESAN as a solution for the counterpart funding shortfall were
     introduced creating intense conflict and internal lack of motivation. Even a BNDES loan against
     income expected from the company's sale was signed in December 1996, without the resources


                                                   - 43 -

     being applied to the Project and without the privatization ever happening. From PRODESAN on,
     the Government had a more active attitude, contributing to the success of this stage. However, with
     the contracting of the works considered as of high cost, it could not fulfill its financial counterpart
     obligations, leaving the appearance of insufficient commitment. In the Project's final phase, 2003, a
     new administration assumed office in the State, the fourth state succession to which the Project was
     submitted. The new Government, differently from the previous administrations, adopted a
     responsible attitude, giving priority to the works completion and the systems operation, directing
     autonomy for the government executive line to solve the problems left, such as the significant debts
     with suppliers. Focused on the State reconstruction, the new Government started a new negotiation
     with the IBRD towards the optimization of the investments made and the resuming of its
     institutional credibility.

     CESAN:
     CESAN's good performance during Project preparation was not continued during the
     implementation phase. CESAN was unable to conduct the Project in a structured manner and did
     not take the opportunities that came up to promote changes and active management reactions. The
     company directors followed the practice of the installed state administrations, influencing also the
     UGP initial management, which maintained an attitude unfocused on results and with isolated
     decision links, losing with time its internal and external credibility before the Institution, creating
     resistance and conflict. It was unable to promote the integration of the Project actions with the
     project communities and had no success in its attempts to attract the attention of SEAMA towards
     the importance of its activities.

     The documents that form the base of this final evaluation are clear to state that CESAN alone did
     not have the necessary conditions to implement a financing program of the size, value and time that
     was devised and contracted. CESAN became the hostage of an uncommitted government policy that
     strongly influenced its performance, inhibiting as well, reactions on the part of the technical staff
     towards the taking of corrective measures since the beginning of such process. It was also unable to
     face the impediments instituted by SEDIT for its interaction in the PRODESAN stage, adopting a
     self-indulgent attitude, impairing the execution of important activities, such as technology transfer
     and environmental and sanitary educational campaigns, which were fundamental for the adherence
     of the beneficiary population to the completed sewage systems. The current CESAN administration
     is fully aware of the challenge before it to complete the actions left unfinished by the project.



9. 7. Main lessons and suggestions left by the Project:

     To learn the lessons left by this Project is a "sine qua non" condition for the success of a future
     operation. Such lessons refer us to important suggestions which deserve to be recorded and
     highlighted:

·     Challenges are important and necessary to break paradigms and materialize changes. For the
implementation of a project of the nature of that which is now being completed, it must be taken into
account, beyond the project's social-economical-environmental benefits, the involved institutions'
experience and capacity to implement project activities;
·     When the main credit operation involves significant values, it is fundamental to link solid
instruments for the fulfillment of the financial and management obligations. For example, the loan with
the EIB should have been a condition for the Agreement effectiveness with the IBRD for this Project;
·     At the first sign of fragility, the project operational agent must always involve the other important


                                                    - 44 -

   actors for interaction and a disciplined and uniform decision making;
   ·     The bidding procedure must, whenever possible, assemble lots of attractive value and with
   technical qualification requirements compatible to the venture, or at least, abide by a single process for
   each venture. For the type of works in this Project, the verified successful experience is in the turnkey
   model, considering the works as a whole, from its conception until its final execution. The operation and
   maintenance phase deserves to be better studied and discussed to introduce transparency, mainly as
   concerns costs, and to allow for negotiations with the contractor;
   ·     The UGP must have management autonomy and attributed responsibility for execution and/or
   coordination of all Project activities;
   ·     A sewage system must never be initiated without the treatment unit being considered and receiving
   priority;
   ·     The insertion of themes under the Borrower's responsibility, such as privatization, must be solely
   and exclusively done and directed by such Institution to avoid conflicts;
   ·     The physical interventions must be with their engineering projects complete and updated;
   ·     The investments in sewage systems for low-income regions must include the costs of in-house
   plumbing modifications;
   ·     The Project must keep an updated planning that will allow the starting of the ventures with the
   fulfillment of the technical-environmental requirements in a favorable and solid condition for execution
   viability;
   ·     The financial sustainability of a project must be monitored in a structured way in order to
   guarantee the intended result and, if necessary, its restructuring;
   ·     Studies point towards high economic returns for investments made in sewage, since they aggregate
   the full group of benefits (health, environmental recovery, leisure, tourism, economic growth, water
   treatment cost reduction, real estate valuation, etc); however, the same studies point towards a low
   financial return, and must deserve better attention from the involved institutions;
   ·     The Project integration with the organized civil society must receive special attention and be
   stimulated, particularly with respect to municipal administrations in order to avoid duplicating efforts or
   isolated actions;
   ·     The effective participation of the environmental agency is fundamental to correct implementation
   and to guarantee the sustainability of Project actions over time.


    In short, two important aspects must be considered for project implementation: (i) in the execution
    concept: a project has a beginning, a middle and an end, and it should not be inserted into the routine
    activities of the institution in which it is being executed; and, (ii) in the management for results concept:
    a project must be continually improved by efficient and effective supervision.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.

10. Additional Information

See Annex 7 for a list of Supporting Documents.




                                                        - 45 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                                   A. Outcome/Impact Indicators
                                                    1a.1. Key Performance Indicators and Targets

Indicators                                   Unit      1994      1995       1996         1997      1998     1999   2000    2001   2002

Physical Indicators

Water Treatment Capacity                   liters/s

        Appraisal Target                               400     2,300       2,300       2,300     2,890    3,331

        Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                       2,300   2,300  2,300

        Actual                                         400     2,300       2,300       2,300     2,300    2,300   2,300  2,300  2,300

        Actual as % of App. Target                      100       100         100        100         80       69     69      69     69


Water Connections                              .

        Appraisal Target (new connections) number    9,994    20,702      32,838      44,974     57,823  71,387

        Revised Target (June 1996 Amend.) (Cum)      10,889   22,556      35,778      49,001     63,000  77,779

        Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                              75,168  87,668

        Actual                                         117     7,974      22,478      30,458     47,680  58,904  69,335  80,391 93,447

        Actual as % of App. Target                        1        39          68         68         82       83     97     113    131


Sewage Treatment Capacity                  liters/s

        Appraisal Target                   (Cum)                  286      1,120       1,417     1,417    1,767

        Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                               67   1,767

        Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                                  31    962

        Actual                                                                                                       31      31 1,056

        Actual as % of App. Target                                  0           0           0         0        0      2       2     60


Sewerage Connections (new connections)     number

        Appraisal Target                   (Cum)     4,135     6,202      32,043      59,952     68,221  103,365

        Revised Target (June 1996 Amend.)            4,894     7,340      37,925      70,956     70,956  122,338

        Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                           53,785  122,338

        Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                              35,326  44,719

        Actual                                                             2,698      18,667     27,658  32,764  35,791  36,794 40,583

        Actual as % of App. Target                        0         0           8         31         41       32     35      36     39




                                                                     - 46 -

                                           1a.1. Key Performance Indicators and Targets

Indicators                              Unit       1994      1995     1996     1997    1998  1999   2000  2001  2002

Operational Indicators

Water Coverage Level                  population
                                       % urban

        Appraisal Target                 in         91.4     91.6      91.9     92.3   92.7   93.2
                                       areas
        Actual                        served by     93.6     95.9      98.1     97.9   93.6   94.4  93.5   94.7  93.9

                                       CESAN



Water Connections with Meters            %

        Appraisal Target                            79.1     86.9      90.1     90.1   90.1   90.1

        Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                 70.0   80.0

        Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                 85.0   89.0

        Actual                                      69.0     67.0      66.0     66.0   76.0   79.0  79.3   79.8  82.8


Unaccounted-for Water                    %

        Appraisal Target                             39        37       34       31     30     30

        Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                  38     37

        Revised Target (March 2000)                                                            34    33

        Actual                                       39        39       38       39     36     36   30.3   33.7  36.2


Water and Sewerage Connections         number

per Permanent Employee

        Appraisal Target                            220       229       254     280     294   324

        Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                  350   375

        Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                  415   468

        Actual                                      222       236       277     330     374   402    422   464   503




                                                            - 47 -

                                        1a.1. Key Performance Indicators and Targets

Indicators                               Unit     1994   1995      1996     1997    1998   1999  2000  2001 2002

Water and Sewerage Connections          number

per Permanent and TemporaryEmployee

         Appraisal Target                         177     185       198      219     236    253

         Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                              275    290

         Revised Target (March 2000)                                                              242   242

         Actual                                   191     198       233      256     189    243   250   274  266


Ratio between Personnel Costs             %

and Operating Costs

         Appraisal Target                         69.4    69.4     69.2      68.9    68.6   68.0

         Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                              42.0   40.0

         Revised Target (March 2000)                                                              50.0 50.0

         Actual                                     70    62.0     56.0      51.0    50.0   52.0  47.0 46.0  42.0


Sewerage Coverage Level                   %

         Appraisal Target                         12.7    13.1     22.7      31.8    33.2   43.3

         Revised Target (March 2000)                                                              16.0 24.0

         Actual                                      9     9.0     10.0      10.0    16.0   16.0  16.0 18.0  20.0


Sewage Collected/Water Consumed           %

         Appraisal Target                          9.8     9.8     14.8      23.1    27.6   33.4

         Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                              16.0   34.0

         Revised Target (March 2000)                                                              14.0 19.0

         Actual                                    9.0     9.0     10.0      10.0    14.0   14.0  11.0 12.0  14.0




                                                          - 48 -

                                                1a.1. Key Performance Indicators and Targets

Indicators                                      Unit     1994     1995       1996     1997   1998 1999   2000 2001  2002

Sewage Collected and Treated/                    %

Water Consumed

          Appraisal Target                                5.8       6.6       11.6     20.0  24.6  32.0

          Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                     16.0  34.0

          Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                     9.0 19.0

          Actual                                          9.0       9.0       10.0     10.0  11.0  9.0   10.0 12.0  15.0




Residual Chlorine in Water Pipes              % of time

          Appraisal Target                    above 0.2   >96      >96        >96      >96   >96   >96

          Actual                                mg/l

               Grande Vitoria                              99       96         98       92    97    95    96   97    98

               Guarapari                                   94       93         93       90    92    95    96   96    97


Environmental Indicators

Efficiency of Sewage Treatment Plants >80%       %

          Appraisal Target                                100      100        100      100   100   100

          Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                     82   100

          Actual                                           57       69         75       94    82    82    82   83    83


Water Quality Monitoring Stations             number

          Appraisal Target                                  0      130        130      130   130   130

          Actual                                           na       na         na       na    na    na    na   na    na


Pollution Load Control for Existing Industries   %

          Appraisal Target                                 10       35         45       55    65    75

          Actual                                           na       na         na       na    na    na    na   na    na




                                                                   - 49 -

                                          1a.1. Key Performance Indicators and Targets

Indicators                               Unit       1994    1995      1996     1997   1998  1999  2000  2001  2002

Financial Indicators


Average Water Tariff                   US$ per m3

        Appraisal Target                            0.32    0.54      0.57     0.57   0.57  0.57

        Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                0.70  0.70

        Revised Target (March 2000)                                                               0.47  0.53

        Actual                                      0.59    0.61      0.66     0.71   0.69  0.46  0.51  0.43   0.40



Average Sewerage Tariff                US$ per m3

        Appraisal Target                            0.32    0.54      0.57     0.57   0.57  0.57

        Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                0.53  0.53

        Revised Target (March 2000)                                                               0.47  0.53

        Actual                                      0.32    0.35      0.47     0.53   0.50  0.31  0.39  0.33   0.30


Working Ratio                             %

        Appraisal Target                              57      53        49       46    45    43

        Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                 72    70

        Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                74    74

        Actual                                        99      74        80       73    74    61    61    66     65


Rate of Return on Assets                  %

        Appraisal Target                             4.6      4.0       5.3      5.8   6.1   6.5

        Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                 1.2   2.4

        Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                0.7   0.7

        Actual                                      -0.1      2.7      -2.3     -0.4   0.1   0.4  1.15  0.09   0.72




                                                            - 50 -

                                            1a.1. Key Performance Indicators and Targets

Indicators                                Unit     1994     1995       1996       1997       1998        1999        2000     2001  2002

Internal Cash/Investment                   %

         Appraisal Target                           -1.8       8.0       8.9       28.1       32.6        30.4

         Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                       30.0        30.0

         Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                                 20.0      20.0

         Actual                                      88      -434       32.0       33.0       25.0        33.0       71.0     122.0 112.0


Accounts Receivable Comparator            days

         Appraisal Target                            43        43         43        43          43          43

         Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                        100          90

         Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                                  110      110

         Actual                                     109       106        116       114         110         105        109      118   118


Debt Service Coverage Ratio               ratio

         Appraisal Target                           3.38     4.43       7.01       7.95       8.62        3.07

         Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                        2.0         1.8

         Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                                  2.0      6.4

         Actual                                      0.1       0.2       3.7        6.9        2.4         1.5        2.5      7.0  -87.5


Current Ratio                             ratio

         Appraisal Target                           0.52     0.57       0.79       0.86       0.68        0.56

         Revised Target (June 1998 MTR)                                                       0.75        0.80

         Revised Target (March 2000)                                                                                 0.80      0.80

         Actual                                     0.50     0.60       0.70       0.70       0.70        0.73       0.75      0.70  1.21




Note: The June 1996 Amendment to the Legal Documents accepted to incorporate additional eligible projects in counterpart funds




                                                                  - 51 -

                              1a.2. Average Tariffs- Appraisal Targets and Actual

                                       Appraisal Target                             Actual
      Water                   Exchange                Inflation                                          Percent of Target
                      Current   Rate     Current       IPCA       Current     Current     Current                       in
       Year           US$/m3  R$/US$    Reais/m3     (mid-year)     Reais     Reais         US$           in Reais  US Dollars


       1994            0.56     1.00      0.56                                 0.56         0.56           100%
       1995            0.59     0.92      0.54                                 0.56         0.61           103%        103%
       1996            0.62     1.00      0.62                                 0.66         0.66           106%        106%
       1997            0.62     1.08      0.67                                 0.76         0.70           114%        114%
       1998            0.62     1.16      0.72                                 0.81         0.70           113%        113%
       1999            0.62     1.82      1.13         100.0        1.13       0.84         0.46            74%        74%
       2000                     1.83                   106.5        1.20       0.93         0.51            77%
       2001                     2.35                   114.4        1.29       1.01         0.43            78%
       2002                     2.93                   123.1        1.39       1.16         0.40            84%
    sept. 2003                  2.92                   144.8        1.63       1.30         0.45            80%



    Sewerage


       1994            0.32     1.00      0.32                                 0.32         0.32           100%        100%
       1995            0.32     0.92      0.29                                 0.32         0.35           109%        109%
       1996            0.47     1.00      0.47                                 0.47         0.47           100%        100%
       1997            0.57     1.08      0.62                                 0.57         0.53            93%        93%
       1998            0.58     1.16      0.67                                 0.58         0.50            86%        86%
       1999            0.57     1.82      1.04         100.0        1.04       0.57         0.31            55%        55%
       2000                     1.83                   106.5        1.10       0.71         0.39            64%
       2001                     2.35                   114.4        1.19       0.77         0.33            65%
       2002                     2.93                   123.1        1.28       0.87         0.30            68%
    sept. 2003                  2.92                   144.8        1.50       1.03         0.35            69%




                              Appraisal
Sewerage as % of Water         Target                  Actual               Real term increases:
                                                                            (IPCA 1995-Sep. 2003: 192.4)
       1994                     57%                     57%
       1995                     54%                     57%                 Water:
       1996                     76%                     71%                 1995 tariff =0.56*1.924= R$1.08
       1997                     92%                     75%                 Current tariff=        R$ 1.30
       1998                     94%                     72%                 % real increase: 20%
       1999                     92%                     68%
       2000                                             76%                 Sewerage:
       2001                                             76%                 1995 tariff=0.35*1.924=R$ 0.67
       2002                                             75%                 Current tariff=        R$ 1.03
    sept. 2003                                          79%                 % real increase: 54%


  Coverage level                43%                     20%                 Marginal Cost of Service (volumetric charge)


                                                                            1995 estimate, adjusted for inflation to
                                                                            June 2003:


                                                                            Water: R$1.22/m3
                                                                            Sewage collection: R$0.77/m3
                                                                            Sewage collection and treatment: R$1.21/m3




                                                               - 52 -

                                    1a.3. CESAN Financial Statements- SummaryThousand Reais

                                         1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001     2002          2002/1994
                                                                                                                                       (times)
Income Statement
Gross Operating Revenues-Total         57,268   93,620    114,933  135,914    142,715   144,307   161,088   173,041  199,667              3.5
of which: Water Supply                 53,893   88,977    106,076  125,205    130,766   132,416   147,248   157,188  178,885              3.3
          Sewerage                     2,334     4,348      7,557    10,563    11,415    11,570   13,557    15,551    20,594              8.8
Net Operating Revenues                 55,709   92,441    111,091  132,025    138,390   138,478   154,564   166,025  191,229              3.4
Operating Expenses
  Operation & maintenance              21,611   36,840    78,010     61,262    63,783    62,841   69,419    79,895    95,272              4.4
  Commercial                           3,263     5,572    10,281     12,245    15,703    21,961   26,663    24,574    29,070              8.9
  Administrative                       29,382   28,232    35,194     35,345    40,921    31,681   32,568    43,455    46,841              1.6
  Depreciation                         7,093     9,873    22,241     22,678    18,618    17,910   16,509    16,752    17,264              2.4
  Financial                            7,322    12,205      7,833    11,273     9,279     9,041    8,390      7,514   13,503              1.8
  Total                                68,670   94,122    131,318  142,803    148,303   143,433   153,549   172,191  218,685              3.2
Operating Margin (before
depreciation and financial)            83,085   116,200   161,392  176,754    176,200   170,384   178,448   196,457  249,452              3.0
Operating Income                      (12,961)   (1,680)  (20,227)  (10,778)   (9,913)   (4,955)   1,015     (6,167) (27,456)             2.1
Net Income                            (14,712)   2,480    (18,204)  (14,717)  (14,041)  (15,787)   (4,058)  (15,511) (17,492)             1.2
                                                                                                                              IGP-DI     2.3
Balance Sheet
Current Assets                         41,616   31,800    47,237     53,815    56,796    61,508   66,549    72,706    67,242              1.6
Long-term Assets                           83      117      1,496     1,418     3,367     4,699    6,086      7,554   10,760            129.6
Net Fixed Assets                      204,350   652,293   651,154  675,209    709,587   752,637   762,853   773,462  783,319              3.8
                       Total Assets   246,049   684,210   699,887  730,442    769,750   818,844   835,488   853,722  861,321              3.5


Current Liabilities                    77,492   55,396    67,452     71,072    78,364    83,786   88,323    104,144   55,458              0.7
Long-term Debt                        139,776   187,634   207,020  249,935    273,624   325,682   331,967   378,074  450,631              3.2
Equity                                 28,782   441,180   425,415  409,435    417,762   409,376   415,198   371,504  355,232             12.3
                   Total Liabilities  246,050   684,210   699,887  730,442    769,750   818,844   835,488   853,722  861,321              3.5
.                                                                                                                             IGP-DI     2.5
Flow of Funds
Internal Sources:
   Net income                         (14,712)   2,480    (18,204)  (14,717)  (14,041)  (15,787)   (4,058)  (15,511) (17,492)
   Depreciation & Provisions           7,093    12,706    36,230     39,528    33,550    33,349   32,738    35,666    39,569
   Other                              (55,952)   (8,989)   (2,818)   (8,239)      987     4,497    (2,817)   (2,561)   4,442
Total Internal Sources                (63,571)   6,197    15,208     16,572    20,496    22,059   25,863    17,594    26,519


Increase in LT Debt                    37,786   14,983    23,418     41,124    43,052    61,099    6,285    22,391    19,899
Restructuring of Current Liab.                                                                                        50,132
Equity                                 3,839     3,776      4,451     1,363       214        55               4,943    1,983
                    Total Sources     (21,946)  24,956    43,077     59,060    63,762    83,213   37,091    39,985    98,533


Capital Expenditures                   8,648    12,474    32,687     47,747    65,591    76,399   22,075    23,595    24,876
Work in progress                                                                                                      17,474
Debt Service                                       168      5,631     8,433       678     6,191    1,019      1,891    2,679
Changes in Other Assets                2,885        35       417        (78)    1,805     1,332   13,494    24,164    10,280
                 Total Applications    11,533   12,677    38,734     56,102    68,074    83,922   36,587    49,649    55,310


Changes in Working Capital            (33,480)  12,280      4,343     2,958    (4,312)    (709)      504     (9,664)  43,223


Ratios
Op. expenses, excluding
depreciation and financial/net
operating revenues                        97%      78%       91%        82%       87%       84%      83%       89%      98%


Op. Income/Net Op. Revenues              -23%       -2%     -18%        -8%       -7%       -4%       1%        -4%    -14%
Net Income/Op. Revenues                  -26%       3%      -16%      -11%      -10%      -11%        -3%       -9%      -9%


Current ratio                             0.54      0.57      0.70      0.76      0.72      0.73      0.75      0.70     1.21
LT Debt/Equity                           4.86      0.43      0.49      0.61      0.65      0.80      0.80      1.02     1.27


Internal Sources/Capital                 -7.35      0.50
Expenditures+ Work in Progress                                0.47      0.35      0.31      0.29      1.17      0.75     0.63


Source: CESAN Audited Financial Statements




                                                                        - 53 -

                                   1a. 4. Coastal Water Quality in Vitoria

The table below is a summary of a report on Coastal Water Quality in the Beaches of Vitoria which was
prepared by the Municipality of Vitoria in October 2003. It is based on historical monitoring data of water
quality of the beaches, monitored jointly by the Municipal Environmental Secretariat and CESAN starting
in 1988, through 22 monitoring points. Monitoring is limited to coliforms, and quality is determined as per
CONAMA resolutions (acceptable up to 1000 col/ml for bathing). This report was prepared to provide a
monitoring base line to assess improvements in water quality of Vitoria's beaches after the Mulemba
Sewage Treatment Plant begins operations. This report also shows that, except for the sample points under
the influence of the Canal da Passagem, the Camburi beach has improved since sewage treatment began,
both for the annual geometric average of col/100 ml and the % of time the water quality is acceptable.
Furthermore, the sample point of Camburi, near the port and industrial area of Tubarao has progressively
improved due to domestic sewage treatment, but also to more efficient industrial liquid effluent treatment
by the large industries installed in Tubarao . Classification of beaches is currently posted on the internet to
                                              1)


inform the community. The table also shows the conditions of Praia do Canto, part of Camburi beach
under the influence of the Canal and the Enseada do Sul, which should improve when the Mulemba and
Carriacica sewage plants are operating efficiently at acceptable capacity.




_________________________________
1)Until 1998 the end of Camburi beach, near the Tubarao port and industrial area was never acceptable. Since
then, it improved progressively to an annual average level of 215-400 col/100ml and to about 5--60% of the time
acceptable.




                                                       - 54 -

                              Historical Coastal Water Quality in Vitoria

   Zone of     Monitorin   Paramete    1994  1995  1996   1997 1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003
   Vitoria       g Point       r
End of                     Coli forms  6423  5400  1294  1200  561   575   248   215   413   384
Camburi-       1 ­ Tubarao Col/100ml
Tubarao                     % of time  0     0     0     0     2     25    58    61    50    60
                            Acceptabl
                               e
                           Coli forms  672   977   758   747   324   183   160   149   67    54
               2 ­
                            % of time  15    12    21    33    64    94    81    79    87    93
                            Acceptabl
                               e
                           Coli forms  215   145   192   167   128   162   77    67    104   40
Camburi        3 -
Beach                       % of time  44    64    68    77    90    81    100   83    92    100
                            Acceptabl
                               e
                           Coli forms  164   67    116   111   100   204   122   72    93    90
               4-
                            % of time  65    83    85    71    75    73    89    75    81    71
                            Acceptabl
                               e
                           Coli forms  125   81    86    126   116   190   134   115   120   81
               5-
                            % of time  62    92    85    79    90    79    91    75    75    81
                            Acceptabl
                               e
                           Coli forms  119   80    110   180   100   235   141   136   126   98
               6-
                            % of time  79    92    79    79    90    64    98    83    79    86
Camburi                     Acceptabl
under                          e
Influence of               Coli forms  143   117   132   233   145   213   130   173   137   67
Canal do       7-
Passagem                    % of time  83    92    85    56    79    77    91    79    67    100
                            Acceptabl
                               e
                           Coli forms  161   122   256   288   206   247   166   220   161   84
               8-
                            % of time  90    96    59    46    69    83    72    71    71    81
                            Acceptabl
                               e
Canal da                   Coli forms  1625  1665  2117  2148  2310  3068  5624  6864  4251  3211
Passagem       9- Canal
which          exit         % of time  0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0
currently                   Acceptabl
receives                       e
sewage from                Coli forms
adjacent area
through        23- in the   % of time  0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0
drainage       Canal        Acceptabl
system and                     e
where the
Mulemba
treated
effluent will
be disposed
                           Coli forms  423   642   263   6708
               10
                            % of time  43    33    43    0     0     0     0     0     0     0
                            Acceptabl
                               e
                           Coli forms  46    29    570   8064  2141  327   227   572   493   191
               11
Praia do                    % of time  89    94    49    0     0     0     0     0     0     0
Canto                       Acceptabl
                               e
                           Coli forms  4444  814   351   1263  5761  1773  1386  2678  1570  1350
               12                                        6
                            % of time  0     6     55    0     0     0     0     0     0     0
                            Acceptabl
                               e
                           Coli forms  51    69    87    143   122   99    152   225   330   123
               13
                            % of time  100   79    87    81    81    92    60    69    52    69
                            Acceptabl
                               e




                                                     - 55 -

    Zone of Vitoria  Monitorin Parameter    1994   1995  1996   1997   1998      1999   2000    2001  2002 2003
                     g Point
                                Coli forms 11     22     21    43     39       95      83       203   294  40
                    14
                                % of time  100    100    100   100    100      89      91       73    58   79
                                Acceptable
                    15          Coli forms 22     34     32    98     111      156     169      178   248  131

                               % of time   100    100    100   96     71       71      64       62    46   78
   Ilha do Frade               Acceptable
                    16          Coli forms 21     22     25    18     42       34      44       57    55   17

                               % of time   98     98     94    100    90       96      94       100   100  98
                               Acceptable
                    18          Coli forms 18     23     26    64     59       61      88       120   133  50

                               % of time   100    100    100   92     94       92      91       94    100  100
   Ilha do Boi                 Acceptable
                    19          Coli forms 60     45     57    60     71       80      71       157   161  87

                               % of time   100    100    100   90.4   100      100     100      100   87   98
                               Acceptable
                    20          Coli forms 1191   761    1361  900    1464     2050    3000     2264  1822 1657

   Enseada do Sua              % of time   14     25     25    37     31       4       9        0     2    7
                               Acceptable
                    21          Coli forms

                               % of time   73     87     62    69     60       27      11       2     4    26
                               Acceptable




                  1a.5. Drinking Water Quality in Grande Vitoria, Guarapari and the Interior
Summary of Reports prepared by CESAN for September 1998, including historical data for the period
                                                     1997/1998

For ten main Water Treatment plants of Grande Vitoria - Except for turbidity and color during part of
the year for most plants, the quality of drinking water from the ten main plants of Grande Vitoria considered
in the CESAN report is generally acceptable:

Ø            Residual Chlorine - Monthly averages of residual chlorine were higher than the minimum of 0.20
mg/l for all plants during the period 1997/1998. As indicated in table 1.A.1, except in 1997 and 1995,
chlorine has been higher than 0.2 mg/l from 1994 to 2002 more than 96% of the time;

Ø            Fluorine - Fluorine averaged 0.74 mg F/l- during the period 1997/1998, varying between 0.55 and
1 mg F/l from plant to plant, compared with recommended limits of 0.65-0.75 mg/l. Four plants had an
average higher than the recommended limit;

Ø            pH - Average pH in September 1998 was 6.6, varying between 5.95 and 7.65 from plant to plant,
within or close to CESAN limits (6.5-8.5). Annual averages for the period 1997-1998 are similar;

Ø            Bacteriological Quality -In September 1998, five plants were at all times within the standard
bacteriologic limits ( which specify that 95% of the samples should be with no coli form and the remaining
5% with less than 3 col/100ml), one plant presented 3 samples out of 170 with more than 3 col/100 ml, and
four plants presented 1 sample each with more than 3 col/100ml;




                                                        - 56 -

Ø         Iron - Only 5 % of a total of 190 samples analyzed presented more than 0.3% of iron; and

Ø         Turbidity and Color - Four plants met the limits of turbidity and color all year long, while the
other plants did not met these limits normally between November and March.

For the seven main plants of Guarapari and the Interior ­ except for few exceptions, drinking water
distributed in Guarapari and 6 other small systems of the interior considered in CESAN's report is in general
acceptable:

Ø         Residual Chlorine - Except for a few exceptions, average monthly residual chlorine was for all
plants higher than the minimum limit of 0.20 mg/l, however, in September 1998, 4 plants had about 20% of
the samples with less than 0.20mg/l;

Ø         Fluorine - Except for three plants, the average fluorine content in September 1998 was generally
lower than the minimum recommended for Espirito Santo. This was also frequently the case during the
period 1997-1998 for a number of plants such as UBU and MAEMBA, which had no fluorine content during
many months;

Ø         pH- Except for the UBU plant which generally operated with low pH during all the period
1997-1998, all other plants were within or close to CESAN limits (6.5-8.5);

Ø         Bacteriological Quality - In September 1998, except for the Guarapari system which had 3
samples (out of 61) and the Anchieta system which had 1 sample (out of 10) with more than 3 col/100ml, all
other water systems had all samples within the bacteriological standard; and

Ø         Turbidity and Color - All plants met the limits of turbidity and color in September 1998, except
one plant in which one sample (of 5) was not within the color limit.




                                                      - 57 -

B.        Output Indicators

                                 1b.1. Investments in Water Supply Systems

Expected at Appraisal                                      Actual
A ­ Grande Vitoria (US$ 46.8 million)                     A-Grande Vitoria (US$4.8 million)
 1- Expansion of Carapina Water Treatment Plant (raw      1- Last phase of the expansion of the water production system of
water pumping and 2 filters of 293.5 l/s each)            Grande Vitoria implemented with funds from CEF
 2- Expansion of Storage Capacity by 30,890 m3            2- Construction of 10,000 m3 storage tank near Vale Esperanca
                                                          treatment plant
3-        Construction of 33.8 km of transmission
pipelines
4-        Pumping Stations (3)
 5- Expansion of the distribution network to add 59,041   Expansion of the existing distribution network to cover normal
new connections.                                          population growth: 606 km of distribution networks and 43,236 new
                                                          connections.
B ­ Guarapari (US$ 22.4 million)                          B - Guarapari (US$ 10.2 million)
1-        New 560 l/s water treatment plant
2-        5 new reservoirs with a total capacity of 13,544
m3
 3- Construction of 18.4 km of transmission pipes          First phase of the component only was implemented. It included a water
                                                           intake (Rio Benvento), a pumping station, and a 18 km raw water
                                                           transmission main (with booster)
 4- Distribution pipes: 100.6 km to allow 3,149 new        - Some portions of the treated water main distribution network
connections (including 318 un-metered)                    system
                                                          - Expansion of the existing distribution network to cover normal
                                                          population growth: 77km of distribution networks and 6108 new
                                                          connections
C ­ Interior (US$ 8.7 million)                            C- Interior (US$13.9 million)
1-        New Treatment Plants (totalling 210.7 l/s),
and/or transmission pipelines and reservoirs in 5 cities.
 2- 186 km of new distribution network for 9,197 new       Expansion of the existing distribution systems to cover normal population
connections (921 un-metered)                               growth: 147km of distribution networks for 9,800 new connections
D ­ Engineering and Design Services (US$3.2 million)       D ­ Engineering and Design Services (US$3.5 million)
                                                           Under this component the following studies were completed for Grande
                                                           Vitoria:
                                                           (a)     Aerophotometric Mapping (US$1.8 million) and
                                                           (b)     A revised 30-year water supply master plan (US$1.7 million).




                                                            - 58 -

                                          1b.2. Sewage Collection and Treatment Systems



                             Sewage collectors   Effluent Pumpin    Treatment Plant    Connections         Population
                                                  main       g
       Component
                             Sewage                                Activate
                                                   km                       Ponds     Total            Benefited
                            collectors                            d Sludge

As Expected at Appraisal

Grande Vitoria

- Vitoria Centro                  50.0                          2         1            11,386            78,660

- Praia do Canto                 169.0                         10                  1   22,633           212,000

- Serra/Fatima                    18.0                          2                       4,256            18,120

- Vilha Velha/ Praia Costa       198.0                         13                  1   24,490           207,045

- Vilha Velha/ Paul               69.0                          5                       6,836            39,258

- Cariacica                      143.0                          7                  1   20,078           143,400

Total Grande Vitoria             647.0                         39         1        3   89,679           698,483


Guarapari

- Praia do Morro                  79.0                          9                  1    6,265           152,344

- Guarapari Centro                47.0                          4                  1    4,291            84,724

Total Guarapri                   126.0                         13         0        2   10,556           237,068



Other Cities of the Interior

- Domingo Martins                 10.5                          2                  1      868            11,452

- Marechal Floriano               12.8                          6                  1      881             9,374

- Santa Maria de Jetiba           18.6                          4                  1      900            16,824

- Santa Leopoldina                 6.6                          5                  1      481             4,067

Total Other Cities                48.5                         17         0        4    3,130            41,717


Total Sewerage Component         821.5                         69         1        9  103,365           977,268

                                       of which                                              of which              to be
                                       still need                                            still need         Connected
Achievements
                                      investmen                                              investme           in 2004 and
                                         ts (i)                      l/s                       nts (i)           2005 (ii)

Grande Vitoria
  . Completion of Camburi
  System                          16.0                                                  1,036                         6,020

  . Serra /Jacaraipe Velha        19.0                1.5       3          existing       697                         4,050
  . Works to connect new
  consumers due to
  population growth in
  served areas                    22.0                                                  4,305                        25,012
  . Vilha Velha - Aracas
  System

    - Under Prodespol            102.3       23.0     5.8                              11,461     4,640

    - Under Prodesan               9.6                6.5       9      400                684

Total Vilha Velha                111.9       23.0    12.3       9      400             12,145    4,640               83,355
  . Cariacica -
  Bandeirantes Syst.

    - Under Prodespol            187.1                                                 18,506     3,280

    - Under Prodesan               0.1                0.3       1      255

Total Cariacica                  187.2                0.3       1      255             18,506    3,280               91,046




                                                                   - 59 -

 Vitoria - Praia do Canto
 Mulemba Syst.

        - Under Prodespol                    41.5           8.5          0.9                                          2,914      1,006

        - Under Prodesan                      6.4                        2.1        7        204                         186


 Total Vitoria Praia do Canto                47.9          8.5          3.0         7       204                      3,100      1,006                       40,259



 TOTAL GRANDE VITORIA                       404.0          31.5         17.1       20        859                     39,789      8,926                    249,742


 Guarapari
      . System Airport - Praia
      do Morro

        - Under Prodespol                    59.2           2.0          6.9                                          4,842        505

        - Under Prodesan                      4.5                        0.1        7        150                         191

 Total Guarapari Praia do
 Morro                                       63.7          2.0          7.0         7       150                      5,033         505                      55,489
      . Works to connect new
      consumers due to
      population growth in
      served areas                            1.0                                                                        175                                 1,017



 TOTAL GUARAPARI                             64.7           2.0          7.0      7.0        150                      5,208        505            0.0       56,871



 Other Cities of the Interior

      . Santa Maria de Jetiba
      (iii)                                  20.0                        3.2        5       30.5                      1,090                                  6,332

      . Domingos Martins                                                 1.1        1       10.6                         639                                 3,712
      . Works to connect new
      consumers due to
      population growth in
      served areas                            8.0                                                                        654                                 3,780




 TOTAL OTHER CITIES OF
 THE INTERIOR                                28.0           0.0          4.3        6       41.1                      2,383         0.0           0.0       13,824


 TOTAL PROJECT                              496.7          33.5         28.5       33      1,050                     47,380      9,431              0     320,437


(i) Part of sewers and connections implemented under the first phase of the project, before it was completely restructured, need additional funds to become operational
(ii) It is considered that the additional works needed for part of the sewers and connections to be operational will be implemented during 2005
(iii) The collection system was implemented initially with funding from the project. Later on the treatment station was built with funds from Caixa Economica




                                                                                       - 60 -

   1b.3. CESAN Institutional Strengthening Component - Main Studies and Programs
  Objectives                                        Output                                            Outcome



  Asset Revaluation (US$802,000).


  Until 1990, the revaluation index                 The study was carried out in 1995 by              The recommended asset revaluation
  allowed by the Government was                     a Brazilian accounting and auditing               (R$401.9 million) was reflected in
  much lower than the inflation rate                firm.                                             the December 1995 audited
  and CESAN fixed assets were not in                                                                  statements. Another revaluation was
  line with estimated replacement                                                                     incorporated in the December 31,
  values. CESAN was to carryout a                                                                     1998 Balance Sheet (R$370 million),
  fixed asset revaluation study and                                                                   but no other revaluation was made
  incorporate its recommendations into                                                                since.
  its audited financial statements of
  fiscal year 1995. The program also
  included the preparation of a manual
  for regular updating of this process
  and a plan for its automation
  CESAN was subsequently to carry
  out similar revaluation studies not
  less frequently than every three years.



  Tariff Restructuring (US$56,000).



  At the time of project preparation,               Implementation of these agreements                The proposed policy was
  CESAN's tariff structure and levels               was partial. CESAN first increased                implemented as follows:
  were found to lag behind past                     tariffs across the board by 33% in
  inflation and not reflecting the                  June 1995, but the tariff structure               A revised tariff structure was
  company's actual economic costs,                  remained unchanged. CESAN then                    implemented, which led to substantial
  that is, the marginal cost of providing agreed to present a tariff restructuring real increases in tariffs levels
  the services. In particular, non-                 plan by December 1995 along the                   (Tables). In June 1996, CESAN
  residential rates were well above the             lines agreed at appraisal, and                    raised its tariffs again for both water
  cost of service, while residential rates          contracted a study at the end of 1995             and sewerage from R$0.64/m3 to
  were lower. There was a heavy                     to propose a revised tariff structure.            R$0.75/m3 (+17%) and from
  cross-subsidization of sewerage                   CESAN contracted local consultants                R$0.44/m3 to R$0.74/m3 (+68%),
  consumers, favoring the highest-                  to prepare a proposal, which was                  respectively. Average tariffs in 1996
  income groups of the population. As               finalized in April 1996. It was to be             and 1997 were substantially in line
  part of project preparation, a                    implemented starting June 1996, with with, or above, agreed targets.
  marginal cost study was carried out,              5% real term increases in tariffs per             However, they have since somewhat
  on the basis of which it was agreed               year during three years                           eroded in real terms, to 80% of the
  that CESAN would restructure its                                                                    1999 targets for water and about 70%
  tariffs on the basis of the following                                                               for sewerage by 2003. Nevertheless,
  principles:                                                                                         cumulative real increases(in Reais)
                                                                                                      between 1995 and September 2003
  Ø Marginalcostsshouldbeusedas                                                                       remain substantial, about 20% for
        reference values in the definition                                                            water and 54% for sewerage.
        of the tariff structure and rate
        levels--in particular, sewerage                                                               The tariff structure was simplified,
        rates should be increased to                                                                  and the scope of cross-subsidies
        approach the corresponding                                                                    between consumer categories was
        marginal costs1;                                                                              modified: residential categories were
                                                                                                      reduced from 5 to 4 and number of
  The practice of applying differential                                                               consumption blocks from 5 to 3, thus
  rates to commercial, industrial and                                                                 reducing tariff categories by half
  public customers should be                                                                          (from 25 to 12).



__________________________________________
 1
  )on average, water residential consumers received an economic subsidy equal to 21%, while this subsidy could be as high as 61% for households receiving combined water
and sewerage collection and treatment services; on the other hand, non-residential customers were heavily overcharged; also, rates did not differentiate between areas according
to the cost of systems serving them




                                                                                     - 61 -

  Objectives                                        Output                                             Outcome



  Ø abolished;                                                                                         As recommended by the consultant,
                                                                                                       for water, subsidies were limited to
  Ø A fixed monthly charge,                                                                            households categorized in the social
        independent of the volume of                                                                   and popular categories and
        water consumption, but                                                                         consuming less than 15 m3 per
        increasing with the income level                                                               month. In 2003, the
        of households should replace the                                                               average water tariff, though falling
        current minimum consumption                                                                    short of appraisal targets, still
        level;                                                                                         remained above the 1995 estimated
                                                                                                       cost of service (adjusted for
  Ø The number of consumption                                                                          inflation).
        blocks in CESAN's residential
        tariff structure should be                                                                     For sewerage, however, changes to
        reduced to three;                                                                              the structure fell substantially short of
                                                                                                       the consultant's recommendations:
  Ø Residentialratesfor                                                                                First, the current tariff structure still
        consumption levels above the                                                                   shows different rates for treated and
        basic block but below excessive                                                                untreated sewage.2 Second, there are
        levels (45m3 per month) should                                                                 still more categories of consumers
        be charged with tariffs close to                                                               receiving subsidies than
        marginal costs. Excessive                                                                      recommended, even for treated
        consumption should be                                                                          sewage. For collected sewage, all
        overcharged;                                                                                   categories remain subsidized, when
                                                                                                       comparing tariffs to the average cost
  Ø Thebasicresidential                                                                                of service calculated in 1995
        consumption block and poor                                                                     (updated by inflation). As a result,
        households should be targeted as                                                               despite substantial real term
        the only groups deserving a                                                                    increases, the average sewerage tariff
        subsidy;                                                                                       was in 2003 still only about 79% of
                                                                                                       the average water tariff, compared
  Ø Tariff levels should allow                                                                         with the appraisal target of 92% by
        CESAN to generate enough                                                                       1999.
        internal cash to cover its
        operating expenses, debt service                                                               Several other important
        and investment requirements;                                                                   recommendations were not
        and                                                                                            implemented:

  Ø Anautomaticmechanismof                                                                             Ø The fixed monthly charge was
        adjusting rate levels to inflation                                                                    not established, because it was
        should be selected and put in                                                                         to be set per household instead
        place.                                                                                                of per connection, and met with
                                                                                                              considerable resistance from
  CESAN was to present a proposal for                                                                         consumers living in apartment
  a tariff system in line with the agreed                                                                     buildings sharing a single
  principles by March 31, 1995.                                                                               connection;

                                                                                                       Ø Theeliminationoftheminimum
                                                                                                              consumption level and its
                                                                                                              replacement with charges for
                                                                                                              volumes effectively consumed
                                                                                                              was not implemented because of
                                                                                                              individual metering problems
                                                                                                              and because it would have led to
                                                                                                              a either a decrease in revenues
                                                                                                              or a larger increase in tariffs;


___________________________________________
2)
   The consultant had recommended to adjust sewerage tariffs in line with the economic cost of collected and treated sewage because it may be technically difficult to
differentiate users whose sewage receive treatment from others, and because treatment benefits accrue to all users, regardless of whether their sewage is treated or not.




                                                                                   - 62 -

Objectives    Output             Outcome


                               Ø Theproposaltosetseasonally
                                      differentiated tariffs for
                                      Guarapariwas not implemented
                                      because consumers protested
                                      against being charged both a
                                      minimum consumption
                                       level throughout the year
                                       (even in their absence
                                      in the low season) and a higher
                                      volumetric charge during the
                                      high season.

                               Ø Non-residentialratesforwater
                                      continue to be substantially
                                      above residential rates for
                                      equivalent consumption levels.

                                 Finally, in November 2003 in order
                                 to provide incentives to the
                                 population to actually connect houses
                                 to the project sewage collection
                                 network, the State Government
                                 decided to reduce tariff for treated
                                 sewerage charged to the lowest
                                 income categories, by 50% for the
                                 social category and about 15% by the
                                 popular category (regardless of water
                                 consumption levels). While these
                                 two categories account for only 3%
                                 of sewerage billed currently, their
                                 share should increase when project
                                 facilities come on-stream.
                                 Furthermore, all categories of
                                 customers will benefit for from tariff
                                 discounts over the next 12 months,
                                 progressively decreasing from 75%
                                 initially, to complete elimination by
                                 January 2005. Although this strategy
                                 may be effective in promoting
                                 connections in the short term, there is
                                 a danger that willingness to eliminate
                                 the discounts may weaken as the
                                 October/November municipal
                                 elections approach.




                        - 63 -

Staff Retrenchment (US$5,381,000).


At appraisal, CESAN had a total staff The program was implemented. The    In 1999, new drastic reductions took
of 1,557 permanent employees,         number of permanentemployees was    place, in preparation for privatization.
personnel costs were 67 percent of    reduced to 1,310 by December 1996   In April 2003, CESAN's permanent
total operating costs (a level        and 1,210 by June 30, 1997, a       employees totaled 1,047, about one
considerably higher that Latin        reduction of total staffing by 23%  third less than at appraisal. As a
American water utilities comparators  relative to 1993 levels.            result, CESAN has been able to
(less than 40%) and European                                              comply with and even surpass the
comparators (about 30%).                                                  agreed productivity targets and
Productivity, in terms of connections                                     personnel cost ratios, which have
per employee, was low, about 152                                          fallen substantially in line with the
connections in 1992. CESAN agreed                                         Latin American comparators.
to gradually reduce personnel costs to
improve employee productivity and
reduce personnel costs in line with a
set a ratios agreedat negotiations,
and to that effect it had prepared a
study on the financial effects of a
voluntary retirement program.

CESAN reorganized its
administrative structure in April
1996, reducing management units by
35%. CESAN also prepared a plan to
reduce the number of permanent
employees by a third through
retirement and incentive packages.
The Bank agreed to include the costs
of the retrenchment program into the
project as part of counterpart funds.




                                                                 - 64 -

Sanitary Education Program (US$1,358,000).


The program targeted the               A specialized Brazilian firm was        Unfortunately, it is impossible to
communities in the project's area of   contracted to design and implement      assess the impact of this program, as
influence and had two major            the program, together with CESAN's      many of its benefits may have been
objectives: (a) to mobilize support to communication and community             lost due to frustrated expectations of
the project by informing directly      relation divicion. Between 1996 and     the population in light of the very
impacted populations ahead of time     the beginning of 1999, the team         long delays between the program's
about project works and schedules in   worked with local authorities,          conclusion and the start of operation
order to minimize negative             communities and future customers at     of project investments. One likely
perceptions caused by disruptions,     various levels. Campaigns were          positive impact however, is capacity
about the use, operation and           directed at schools, local              building within CESAN's
maintenance of the networks and        associations, NGOs, churches, public    Community Relations division in the
treatment facilities, and about the    institutions and CESAN staff,           design, methodology and
costs and benefits of sanitation and   building a network of local channels.   organization of such programs.
the importance of connectingto the     Educational campaigns were              CESAN has recently re-initiated
networks and paying for the new        associated with training programs for   sanitary education campaigns to
services; (b) a longer-term            school teachers and other               promote the effective connection of
educational campaign aiming at         multipliers. A wide range of means      users to the project networks, in
increasing general awareness in the    were used, as suited to each type       particular in low-income areas, using
project municipalities about the       activity, including the organization of the planning, scheduling and
importance of conserving water         an inter-municipal symposium,           monitoring methods developed under
resources and protecting and           seminars and presentations to           this sub-component.
recuperating water basins, with        municipal authorities and
emphasis on the Santa Maria and        neighborhood associations,
Jucu rivers, from source to end.       participation in local fairs and events,
                                       training of school teachers and other
                                       multipliers, guided visits to treatment
                                       stations, distribution of printed
                                       material, visits to a large number of
                                       customers, andpromotion and
                                       education through a mobile unit.
                                       Opinion polls were also performed to
                                       evaluate results. The program
                                       covered all project municipalities.
                                       CESAN became a reference in
                                       environmental education in the state
                                       and the program was selected for
                                       presentation in various national and
                                       international forums.




                                                                  - 65 -

Objectives                         Output                               Outcome


Organization and Management (US$445,000)
As part of CESAN's institutional   In 1996, CESAN contracted a          Recommendations of these studies were
program (PLADIC), a number of      consulting firm for the              implemented. Internal auditing was
studies were to be financed under  modernization of internal auditing,  modernized, and CESAN considerably
the project. These included:       and another for the establishment of upgraded its computer systems and
Higher Management Optimization     systems for control of CESAN's       networks throughout its structure.
Program (US$140,000),              movable assets (optimizationof use
Restructuringof Internal Auditing  of vehicles). Also in 1996, various
(US$260,000), Control of Moving    studies and programs were
Assets (US$45,000)                 contracted, including a study to
                                   define CESAN's organization
                                   structure, software and computer
                                   equipment for the project unit, and
                                   studies and programs to modernize
                                   CESAN's computing infrastructure
                                   and software.

Environmental Management (US$106,000)


Ø Traininginenvironmental          Ø Earlyin1998,aspartofan             Ø Aspartofpreparationactivities,the
    management, including              environmental action plan            board of directors of CESAN
    environmental management           prepared by                          approved the company's
    systems such as ISO 14001,         CESAN/PRODESPOL,                     environmental policy. However,
    and in environmental auditing,     CESAN decided to implement           due to subsequent changes in
    and studies, material and          ISO 14001, and contracted            CESAN's management,
    training for the implementation    consultants to help prepare the      implementation of the EMS was
    of ISO 14001 Environmental         company to that effect.              stopped, until recently, when the
    Management System (EMS) in                                              new CESAN Management and
    CESAN.                                                                  Environmental Directorate decided
                                                                            to resume implementation. One of
                                                                            the important targets of the new
                                                                            Environmental Directorate is to
                                                                            implement an EMS based on ISO
                                                                            14001 in two pilot systems: the
                                                                            water treatment and distribution
                                                                            system of Carapina, and the sewage
                                                                            collection and treatment system of
                                                                            Camburi in Vitoria. A one-year
                                                                            contract was signed with a
                                                                            consulting firm in May 2003 to that
                                                                            effect.

Ø Thepreparationofa                Ø Thestudywascontractedand           Ø Thisplanwasnotimplemented.
    management plan for solid          the plan prepared                    Currently, management of solid
    waste in CESAN's operational                                            waste produced in water and sewage
    water and sewerage systems                                              treatment plants is deficient in many
    and administrative and                                                  of CESAN's water and sewerage
    laboratory facilities                                                   systems, including the Carapina
                                                                            water treatment plant in which the
                                                                            settling pond is practically full and
                                                                            needs to be cleaned. Implementation
                                                                            of the plan is now theresponsibility
                                                                            of a new solid waste
                                                                            management and development
                                                                            department, within the
                                                                            environmentaldirectorate of
                                                                            CESAN




                                                              - 66 -

Ø Thepreparationofaplanforthe               Ø Thestudywas                   Ø Theplanwasnotimplemented. in
     environmental recovery of degraded           contracted and the plan        2003, only 50 systems out of a total
     areas in the water and sewerage              was prepared.                  of 158 water and sewage systems
     systems operated by CESAN                                                   had their operating license renewed.
Ø Contributionstothedesignofthe
     State Water Resources Management                                       Ø CESANactivelycontributedtothe
     Law                                    Ø Preparationofanalytical            design of the State Water Resources
                                                  documents and                  Management Law, which was
                                                  participation in seminars      passed in December 1998, and
                                                  and workshops.                 continues to participate actively to
                                                                                 Water Basin Committees already
                                                                                 formed or being formed in its area
                                                                                 of operation

Water Sector Shared Municipalization Program (Municipalizacao Comp          artilhada) (US$268,000).

This sub-component was inserted at the      The scope of work was           The outcome was negligible, because in
end of 1997, when, in agreement with the    narrowed subsequently in        the end CESAN was not privatized and
mayors of the five municipalities of the    July 1998, after the State      none of its operations were divested or
Metropolitan Region of Grande Vitoria       Government modified its         concessioned, as discussed in the report.
(MRGV), the State Government                divestiture strategy, as further
announced plans for a radical reform ofthe  explained in the main report,
sector. This plan included: the vertical    and the main responsibility
separation of water production (which         for the task was assigned to
would stay with CESAN) from distribution To BNDES. Nevertheless, the
in the five municipalities, the horizontal  Executive Secretariat was
separation of water and sewerage            still to receive R$487,500
distribution/collection systems into four   (about US$420,000) to (a)
(later- on five) systems; the concession to install and maintain the
private operators of all such systems by    Executive Secretariat; (b)
June 30, 1998; and the establishment of     collect data on CESAN's
proper regulation and regulatory agencies.  operational systems in the
In October 1997, institutional              interior; (c) studyinvestment
arrangements were in place for this         requirements in the interior;
program, including a Sanitation Forum,      (d) carry out an economic
formed by the mayors of MRGV, the State and financial analysis of the
Secretary of Transportation and Public      remaining CESAN after
Works, and the President of ADERES    -     divestiture of MRGV
Espirito Santo Development Agency), a       systems; (e) review legal
Technical Committee (formed by              aspects of privatization; and
CESAN's President and representatives of    (f) structure the State
the Municipalities), and an Executive       Regulatory Agency. This
Secretariat, under ADERES responsibility, work was not completed,
responsible for helping develop and         however. Actual spending
implement an agreed Action                  eventually amounted to
Plan by mid-1998. It was agreed that the    US$268,000, mostly to pay
costs of implementing the Action Plan       for consultantshired to staff
would be financed under the project, as     the Secretariat.
well as all costs of the Executive
Secretariat. Among the tasks of the
Executive Secretariat were the definition
of targets and investments to be specified
in the concession contracts, the preparation
of environmental regulations for the sector,
of environmental audits, and a study of
technical feasibility of system separation.




                                                                  - 67 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




                                               Annex 2a - Project Costs by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                  Actual/Latest Estimates
                                                                                        Estimated
                                                               Revised
                                                Appraisal                                   for                 % of Appraisal
               Project Component                               Estimates   Actual as of
                                                Estimates                              Completion      Total     Estimates
                                                              Nov. 2002(i)  Oct. 2003
                                                                                        of Initiated                          % Revised
                                                                                          Works                               Estimates



Water Supply                                         81,019        38,014      40,070                    40,070    49.5%          105.40%

- Grande Vitoria                                     46,753                      1,315                    1,315     2.8%
- Guarapari                                          22,395                     10,222                   10,222    45.6%
- Other Systems                                       8,650                     13,921                   13,921   160.9%
- Engineering and other Design Services               3,221                      3,507                    3,507   108.9%

- Projects accepted as Counterpart Funds (ii)                                   11,105                   11,105



Sewerage                                            191,767        123,365    112,216          4,342    116,558    60.8%          95.40%

- Grande Vitoria                                    149,440                     87,184         3,348     90,532    60.6%
- Guarapari                                          29,855                     18,333           994     19,327    64.7%
- Other Systems                                      10,910                      2,304                    2,304    21.1%
- Engineering and other Design Studies                1,562                      3,003                    3,003   192.3%
- Projects accepted as Counterpart Funds                                         1,392                    1,392

Operational Development(iii)                         11,680         8,097        6,688                    6,688    57.3%          82.60%

SEAMA Institutional Development                       9,030              0                                          0.0%

- Studies                                             1,524
- Technical Assistance                                   847
- Training                                            1,072
- Equipment                                           2,709
- Other Services                                         677
- Headquarters                                        2,201

CEASAN Institutional Development                      8,919         8,716        8,416                    8,416    94.4%          96.60%

- Studies (iv)                                           847                     3,035                    3,035   358.3%
- Sanitary Education Program                             847
- Training                                               677
- Equipment                                           2,032
- Headquarters                                        4,516
- Staff Retrenchment Program                                                     5,381                    5,381

Project Management and Supervison                     5,585        11,633        8,667           247      8,914   159.6%          76.60%

Other including Expropriation Costs and
Oceanic Studies                                                     4,138        2,227                    2,227

Total Project Including Contingencies               308,000        193,963    178,284          4,589    182,873    59.4%          94.30%




                                                                - 68 -

                                                       CESAN"S INVESTMENT PROGRAM

                                                                                                Actual/Latest Estimates
                                                                                                          Estimated
                                                                          Revised
                                                        Appraisal                       Actual as             for
              Project Component                                          Estimates
                                                        Estimates                         of Oct.        Completion           Total
                                                                         Nov. 2002                                                           % of              % of
                                                                                            2003         of Initiated                     Appraisal         Revised
                                                                                                            Works                        Estimates Estimates

IBRD Projects                                              308,000           193,963       178,284               4,589        182,873          59.40%           94.30%

Other Investments

Water Supply                                                 57,284                                                            33,735          58.90%
   - Grande Vitoria                                          53,860
   - Other Systems                                             3,424
Sewerage                                                     13,035                                                            34,711        266.30%
   - Grande Vitoria                                            7,328
   - Other Systems                                             5,707
Operational Development                                                                                                         4,574
Ceasan Instituitional Development                                                                                               1,457
Project Management and Supervision                                                                                                 958



Total Other Investments                                      70,319                                                            75,435        107.30%



Total Investment program                                   378,319                                                            258,308          68.30%



(i) the project costs were revised during project implementation through amendments to the loan agreement as presented in Annex 2c
(ii) Includes works to increase the capacity of the Grande Vitoria Water Supply System (US$ 3.5 million) and works to connect new customers due to population growth in
served areas (US$ 4.9 million)
(iii) Includes costs under PANF (US$ 2.41 million), macrometering (US$1.02 million) and micrometering (US$ 2.6 million)




                                                                                 - 69 -

            Annex 2b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)


     Expenditures                 Appraisal Estimates                        Revised Estimates                     Actual/Latest Estimates
      Categories          ICB     NCB       Other    NBF     Total     ICB   NCB Other NBF          Total     ICB     NCB      Other NBF     Total


Civil Works               122.9     60.4                      183.3                                     n.a    85.1    36.0                   121.2
                          (49.2)   (24.2)                     (73.4)                                 (61.7)   (49.5) (18.8)                    (68.3)


Equipment & Materials      99.4      0.8                      100.2                                     n.a    30.9      0.5     0.3  1.5       33.1
                          (59.7)    (0.3)                     (60.0)                                 (27.3)   (25.5)   (0.3)    (0.2)          (26.0)


Consulting Services                           24.5             24.5                                     n.a                     21.0            21.0
                                             (20.6)           (20.6)                                 (16.4)                    (18.2)          (18.2)


Unallocated                                                                                             n.a
                                                                                                       (7.1)


Expropriation and
Personnel
Retrenchment                                                                                                                          7.6        7.6




Total                     222.3     61.2      24.5    0.0     308.0   30.9     0.0     0.0   0.0     194.0    116.0    36.5     21.3  9.1     182.9
                         (108.9)   (24.5)    (20.6)   0.0    (154.0)    0.0   36.0     0.0   0.0    (112.5)   (75.0) (19.1) (18.4) 0.0      (112.5)


(1) Civil works and Equipment and Materials include projects accepted as counterpart funds, respectively for US$ 11.6 million and US$ 1.5 million




                                                                     - 70 -

 2c. Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)



       Project           Appraisal Estimates         Revised Estimates (i)           Actual/Latest Estimates           Percent of Appraisal
     Component

                            Sta te  CE     Total        Sta te CE                       Counterpart Funds                 State    CE
                                    SAN                         SAN                                                                SAN
                     Bank                         Bank                Total   Bank                          Total Bank                     Total
                                                                                      State   CE      Total
                                                                                             SAN




 Water Supply                                                                    21.3           7.7      7.7 29.0

 Sewerage                                                                        77.1   15.7   22.4    38.1  115.2
 Operational
 Development                     n.a                          n.a                 4.3           1.8      1.8   6.1             n.a

 CESAN
 Institutional
 Development                                                                      2.6           0.4      0.4   3.0
 SEAMA
 Institutiomnal
 Development
 Project
 Management and
 Supervision                                                                      7.2    0.8    0.9      1.7   8.9

 Subtotal                                                                      112.5    16.5   33.2    49.7  162.2
 Projects Accepted
 as Counterpart
 Funds                                                                                         20.7    20.7  20.7

 Total Project
 Costs (ii)           154.0   92.5   61.5   308.0 112.5    26.6  54.8  193.9 112.5      16.5   53.9    70.4  182.9 73.1%  17.9%    87.6%   59.4%




Notes:
(i) Costs Estimates and Financing were revised during project implementation through amendment to the Loan Agreement as presented
in table
(ii) not including interest during construction evaluated at US$ 31.5 million at appraisal




                                                 Project Financing
                                    Changes During Project Implementation
                                                       (US$ million)



                           Appraisal                         Ammendments                               Actual
                                            Jun-98        Dec-99           2001         Nov-02
 Bank                            154.0            150          100.0         $100.0         112.5          112.5
 State                             92.5           92.5          20.2            39.1         26.6           16.5
 CESAN                             61.5           57.5          54.8            54.8         54.8           33.2
 Other CESAN                                                                                                20.7



 Total                           308.0          300.0          175.0          194.0         194.0          182.9




                                                                    - 71 -

2d. Costs of Works Started by PRODESPOL and not completed




                                          1995       1996   1997    1998    1999    Total
                                                                                    US$



             Grande Vitoria


            Praia do Canto - B4                      1.551  7.795   1.372          10.718
           Praia da Costa - B13           0.034      3.705  14.721  4.813          23.273
        Cariacica - Campo Grande                            0.805    4.72   2.641   8.166


         Subtotal Grande Vitoria                                                   42.157


                Guarapari                            1.813  7.887   0.522          10.222



     Total Costs under PRODESPOL                                                   52.379




                                                   - 72 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Main Assumptions

1.       Financial rates of return were re-estimated by CESAN in constant mid-2003 prices (in Reais). A
project life of thirty years was assumed, as at appraisal. The models were adapted to re-estimate the
economic rates of return.

Ø        For the Water component, rates of return were calculated over CESAN's entire investment
program (between 1993 and 2003), as at appraisal, due to the difficulty in dissociating the benefit of
project-financed investments from those of investments financed from other sources during that period.
Saturation of project capacity was assumed to have been reached in 2003, all benefits and operating costs
being maintained constant at 2003 levels throughout the remaining period.

Ø        For the sewerage component, rates of return were estimated for each of the four major systems in
Grande Vitoria and Guarapari (including the associated PRODESPOL phase), for the four systems
together, and for the project as a whole. For these investments assumptions were made that complementary
investments would be made in the future to increase capacity utilization of sewage treatment plants.

Project Costs

2.       Investment costs between 1994 and 2003 were converted into 2003 Reais, using a weighted
average inflation index best estimated to reflect changes in actual costs: IGP-DI, with a weight of 30%,
estimated to represent the share of tradable goods, and IPCA, the general index of consumer prices, with a
weight of 70%, estimated to more closely approximate the cost of services and civil works. In the
economic analysis, taxes were excluded by using a weighted tax rate of 9% for water, and 7% for
sewerage, as at appraisal, applied to investment and operating and maintenance costs.

Project Benefits

3.       Project beneficiaries (including all project investments) are summarized in the following table:




                                                      - 73 -

                                        Financial Analysis                                                 Economic Analysis
                           Appraisal                      Current Estimates                    Appraisal                     Current Estimates

Water Supply
New               71,387 new connections by         Total Investment program of       Same as for financial             Same as for financial
Connections       December 1999 (project            CESAN:                            analysis                          analysis
                  completion), benefiting a         93,447 new connections by
                  population of 395,000.            2002, benefiting 467,200
                                                    persons.

                  257,270 new connections at        Of which:
                  project saturation                Directly attributed to
                  (estimated in 20091),             Project-financed
                  benefiting a population of        investments:59,144
                  1,170,900.                        connections, benefiting
                                                    288,900 persons.

Rationing         Rationing reduced or              Rationing eliminated for a        Same as for financial             Same as for financial
                  eliminated for a total            total population of 98,000 by     analysis                          analysis
                  population of 244,000             2002, and reduced for others.

Total             640,000 at completion             565,200 by completion             Same as for financial             Same as for financial
Population        (December 1999);                  (2002), of which 386,900          analysis                          analysis
Benefited         increasing to 1,415,000 at        directly attributed to project-
                  saturation .                      financed investments, plus
                                                    others benefiting from
                                                    reduced rationing.

Sewerage

Connections       103,365 at end of design          Operational in 2004: 38,035,      Same as in financial              Same as in financial
                  period (date unspecified,         Operational in 2006: 57,876       analysis                          analysis
                  but assumed to be 2009--          Operational in 2010: 69,023
                  see footnotes below)              Operational in 2030: 85,320
                                                    (project saturation)

  Population      770,000 at completion             Population connected at           At completion (1999):             In 2004:
                  (December 1999);                  completion (2003):8600            Ø Sewagecollection                Ø Sewagecollection
                  increasing to 1,220,000 at        Population connected in               and treatment: 774,400;           and treatment:254,000;
                  saturation (estimated in
                             2                      2004:254,000                      Ø WaterRecreation:                Ø WaterRecreation:
                  2009 for Grande Vitoria           Population connected by               1,490,500                         1,520,800
                  and 2023 for Guarapari)3          2006: 414,800                     Ø Environmental                   Ø Environmental
                                                    Population connected by               Recovery: 1,505,300               Recovery: 1,520,800
                                                    2010: 485,000
                                                    Population connected in           At Project Saturation             In 2010:
                                                    2030: 592,000                     (2009):                           Ø Sewagecollection
                                                                                      Ø SewageCollection                    and treatment:485,000
                                                                                          and treatment:                Ø Water
                                                                                          1,221,800                         Recreation:1,759,400
                                                                                      Ø WaterRecreation:                Ø Environmental
                                                                                          2,153,000                         Recovery:1,759,400
                                                                                      Ø Environmental
                                                                                          Recovery: 2,174,200
                                                                                                                        At project saturation
                                                                                                                        (2030):
                                                                                                                        Ø Sewagecollection
                                                                                                                            and treatment:592,000
                                                                                                                        Ø Water
                                                                                                                            recreation:2,582,400
                                                                                                                        Ø Environmental
1)The Staff Appraisal Report does not indicate the saturation date, but the financial cost-benefit analysis in the project files assumes that it is in 2009
2)From para. 95 and Annex 16 of the Staff Appraisal Report. Annex 8, Attachment 1, however, estimates 977,260 at end of design period
3)As indicated in the financial cost-benefit analysis available in the project files




                                                                           - 74 -

4.       The number of direct beneficiaries from sewerage is further detailed in Table 3.1. They also
include beneficiaries from future investments expected in order to make maximum use of project-financed
treatment plants, up to their saturation. The number of beneficiaries from water supply include all
customers benefiting from all of CESAN's water supply investments between 1994 and 2002. This is
consistent with the Appraisal methodology and is reasonable, given that many project investments were
part of larger schemes financed by other sources (CEF and CESAN's own resources), or of additional
works to cover population growth, and that it is not possible to separately assign benefits to one or the
other source. Financial benefits were re-estimated using the current tariff structure. Tariff levels as of
November 2003 were used and maintained constant in future years.

5.       With respect to benefits from CESAN's water supply investments, it is important to point out that,
between 1993 and 2003, incremental volumes of water billed relative to 1993 levels first increased until
1998 (up about 20 million cubic meters per year), and then fell to about half of that value by 2002, before
increasing again somewhat in 2003 (Table 3.5). This decrease was due to a substantial decrease in water
consumption by the nonresidential segments after 1998, particularly by CVRD and CST. The volumes
made available were used by CESAN to increase coverage in the residential sector. The Base Case
scenario is conservative, because it considers that the additional connections derived from CESAN's
investment program are only those corresponding to total incremental volumes invoiced in each year. It is
possible that the Base Case under-estimates benefits, because part of the investments made may also have
allowed distribution of water available from nonresidential customers to new residential customers. A
sensitivity analysis was performed to estimate the impact of such an assumption. Another sensitivity test
was performed on the basis of project-financed investments only (which account for only about half of the
total investment program in water supply) and marginal benefits derived exclusively from project
expenditures (incremental connections and reduced rationing). However, this scenario likely over-estimates
benefits, because many of the connections financed under the project were part of larger investment
schemes, or helped supplement them to cover local population growth.

6.       In the economic analysis, for water supply investments, incremental water volumes consumed were
increased to reflect estimated percentages of Unaccounted-for-Water attributed to commercial
(nonphysical) losses in each year. Economic benefits were re-estimated on the basis of the willingness to
pay for the various categories of benefits (sewerage service, water recreation and environmental recovery)
which was used at appraisal, brought to mid-2003 values and adjusted as shown in Table 3.3.

Ø        For water supply and sewerage investments, willingness to pay for direct benefits from
connections, reflecting the convenience value to individual customers connected to the network, was
assumed to be the same as at appraisal (adjusted to 2003 values as described earlier).

Ø        For indirect benefits from sewage collection and treatment (water recreation, environmental
recovery and health expenditures savings), however, in the absence of a revised water quality matrix (which
at appraisal evaluated the impact of sewerage on water quality of Grande Vitoria rivers and beaches), it has
been assumed that willingness to pay for these benefits would be reduced to 40% of appraisal estimates, in
proportion to projected lower coverage of treated sewerage. This means that it is assumed either that
impacted beaches and rivers will be fewer, thus impacting a smaller population, or that all urban
inhabitants will benefit equally but will be unwilling to pay as much as if water quality had been improved
to the extent contemplated at appraisal. Appraisal estimates and currently expected coverage of sewage
collection and treatment are detailed in Table 3.2 and summarized below:




                                                     - 75 -

                                          Coverage of Sewage Treatment



                                                                 Revised Estimates                       Appraisal Estimate


                                                       2000     2004      2006      2009    2030         2000      2009      2023
                                                                           (Percent of Total Population)
2. In Grande Vitoria 1/
                Total, including Serra                      7      17         25      27       20            54       67
                Total, excluding Serra                      9      23         34      37       32                     94
                Vitoria                                   29       38         54      53       55                    100
                Vila Velha                                         12         25      30       22                     46
                Cariacica                                          22         27      33       30                     37


3. In Guarapari                                                    50         76      75       47          269       211      100


4. Vitoria, Vila Velha, Cariacica and Guarapari             8      25         38      41       34                     77
5. As 4, plus Serra                                         6      19         28      30       22                     56



1/ Vitoria, Vila Velha, Serra, and Cariacica


Internal Rates of Return- Summary

7.          The re-estimated financial and economic internal rates of return, compared with appraisal estimates
are presented below (percent):

                                                  Economic Analysis                                     Financial Analysis
                                        Appraisal              Latest Estimates              Appraisal                Latest Estimates
  Water Supply-Total                            35                          55                     12-184                       155

  Sewerage- Total                               32                          19                        9                          -2
     of which:
     Grande Vitoria                             35                          22                        12                         06
     Guarapari                                  10                          39                        5                           1

  Total Project7                                33                          25                        15                          3



___________________________________
4)
  The rate of return for Grande Vitoria was 18% and 0% for Guarapari, yielding an average of 12%- However, engineering design was under review
at the time for Guarapari to decrease costs.
5)
  On CESAN's entire investment program during the 1994-2002 period
6)
  Three largest systems only (Mulemba, Vila Velha and Cariacica)
7)
  When weighted with the share of each component in total project cots, the revised Financial Rate of Return for the project as a whole is 2% and the
revised Economic Rate of Return is 28%


Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis-




                                                                      - 76 -

Financial Rate of Return - Sewerage

8.       The Financial Rate of Return for the sewerage component is re-estimated at about ­2% for the
project as a whole, and at 0% for the four large systems. Detailed calculations are available in the ICR
Files (Annex 7, Supplemental Document D.1). The rate of return is relatively insensitive to most
assumptions, except investment costs in the four large treatment plants: Treating PRODESPOL phase
investments as sunk costs only increases the rate of return of the project from ­2% to 0.5%. However,
treating all investments as sunk costs increases the rate of return to 17%. Tariffs also influence the rate of
return, but to a lesser extent: it would take an 100% increase in tariffs to raise the IRR to 8%. When
increasing tariffs to the level of Willingness to Pay for sewerage direct benefits, the rate of return only
increases to 2% (3% for the four large systems).




                                                      - 77 -

                                                                         Total Project  Four Large
                                                                                        Systems8
                                                                          Percent        Percent
  Base Case                                                                 -1.9          -0.2

  Sewerage Tariffs

        At June 2003 tariffs, without subsidies                             -1.8          -0.1
        R$1.21/m3 (1993 LRMC in 2003 prices)                                -0.5
        92% of current water tariff (appraisal target)                      -0.5
       current tariffs +10%                                                 -0.3           1.0
       current tariffs +20%                                                  1.0           2.1
       current tariffs +50%                                                  4.2           4.7
       Current tariffs +100%                                                 7.9           7.9
        Willingness to Pay for Direct Benefits                               2.4           3.2

  Operating Costs

       -20% after third year of operation (base case)
       -30% after third year of Operation                                    0.4           1.2
        4% of investment costs after third year of operation                -0.8           0.7
        Turnkey contract costs after third year of operation                -2.7          -0.9

  Sewerage investments

         -30%                                                                0.2           2.0
         -50%                                                                2.3           4.1
         -80%                                                                8.9          10.8
         -90%                                                               15.3          16.6

     PRODESPOL as sunk cost                                                  0.5           2.2

    All investments until 2003 as sunk costs                                17.2          19.3

    Without future complementary investments for new connections (other     -5.2          -2.8
  than works to cover population growth in areas served)

  Sewerage investments and tariffs

    PRODESPOL investments as sunk costs, and 50% increase in tariffs         8.8           8.6

    All investments ­30% and tariffs +30%                                    4.7           5.5

    All investments ­50% and tariffs +30%                                    7.2           8.0

    All PRODESPOL and 30% of PRODESAN as sunk costs and                      9.5           9.7
  tariffs+30%



_________________________________
8)
  Mulemba (Vitoria), Vila Velha, Cariacica and Guarapari




                                                           - 78 -

Financial Rates of Return-Water Supply

9.       The Financial Rate of Return on Water Supply investments is re-estimated at 15% under the Base
Case. Detailed calculations are available in the ICR Files (Annex 7, Supplemental Document D.2). This
rate is 22% when considering all new residential connections since 1993 as incremental benefits, including
those which absorbed volumes made available by industry (para. 5). When considering only
project-financed investment costs and marginal benefits directly associated to project expenditures, the
financial rate of return is 28%. These calculations are available in the ICR Files (Annex 7, Supplemental
Documents D.3 and D.4).

 Assumption                                              Internal Financial Rate of Return (%)
 Base Case                                                                   15

 Tariff
         -10%                                                                12
         -15%                                                                10
         +10                                                                 19
         +20                                                                 24
         Equal to Willingness to Pay                                         44

 Incremental Operating Costs (R$ per m3)
         0.5                                                                 18
         0.7                                                                 13
         0.8                                                                 10

 Investment Costs (inflation adjustment formula)
         +10%                                                                14
         +20%                                                                12
         +30%                                                                11



Economic Rate of Return- Sewerage

10.      The economic rate of return for the sewerage component is re-estimated at about 19%. The
project's main benefits are the indirect benefits enjoyed by the Grande Vitoria and Guarapari population as
a whole from better water quality on beaches and environmental recovery. The economic rate of return is
relatively insensitive to the level of these benefits since it would take a reduction of 50% in the level of all
benefits to bring the rate to 11%. Detailed calculations are available in the ICR Files (Annex 7,
Supplemental Document D.1).




                                                        - 79 -

                                                                               Total Project
                                                                                   (%)
 Base Case- All Benefits                                                           19
            - Direct Benefits only                                                  3
            - Direct and Recreational Benefits                                     14
            -Direct, Recreational and Environmental Recovery Benefits only         18

 Willingness to Pay for Direct Benefits:
         -20%                                                                      18
         -50%                                                                      17

 Willingness to Pay for Recreational benefits
         -20%                                                                      18
         -50%                                                                      16

 Willingness to Pay for Environmental Recovery Benefits
         -20%                                                                      18
         -50%                                                                      17

 All Benefits
         -20%                                                                      16
         -50%                                                                      11



Economic Rate of Return- Water Supply

11.      The economic Rate of return under the Base Case (the most conservative methodology) is 55%,
reflecting the high re-estimated willingness to pay (R$2.1 per cubic meter), which is more than 50% higher
than the current residential tariff level (R$1.37 per cubic meter). As shown below, the rate is sensitive to
assumptions made with respect to willingness to pay, but remains at 19% when it is lowered to current
tariff levels. Detailed calculations are available in the ICR Files (Annex 7, Supplemental Document D.2).


Assumptions                                  Internal Economic Rate of Return (%)
Base case                                                      55

Willingness to Pay
       -20%                                                    33
       -50%                                                    10
       Current tariff                                          19

Incremental Operating Costs (R$/m3)
        0.7                                                    47
        0.8                                                    41




                                                      - 80 -

                                                    Annex 3, Table 3.1. Cost-Benefit Analysis
     Sewerage- Incremental Connections provided under the Project; Population Benefited, and Capacity Utilization of Treatment Plants




                                                  2004        2005        2006         2007      2008       2009         2010        2030

A. Grande Vitoria

A.1. Praia do Canto (Mulemba)/Bacia B4 (Vitoria)

   Incremental Connections
     In operating condition                     2,094
     To be recuperated                                       1,006
     Complementary (new operation)                                      2,334
     Population Growth                                          21         31           55         55        57           57
     Total incremental in year                  2,094        1,027      2,365           55         55        57           57
     Total Cumulated new connections            2,094        3,121      5,486        5,541      5,596     5,653         5,710       6,966

     Incremental Population Connected           27,502      40,259      80,117       80,918    81,727    82,544        83,370     101,727

     Percent Capacity Utilization                 25%          37%        65%          65%        66%       67%          67%         82%



A.2. Vila Velha (Bacia B13)

   Incremental Connections
     In operating condition                     7,505
     To be recuperated                                       4,640
     Complementary (new operation)                                      3,062        2,296      2,296
     Population Growth                                          75        122          154        179       203          205
     Total incremental in year                  7,505        4,715      3,184        2,450      2,475       203          205
     Total Cumulated new connections            7,505       12,220      15,404       17,854    20,329    20,532        20,737      25,304

   Incremental Population Connected             48,155      83,354     102,682     117,579    132,625   133,952       135,291     165,081

    Percent Capacity Utilization                  22%          36%        46%          53%        60%       61%          62%         75%

A.3. Cariacica

   Incremental Connections
     In operating condition                     15,226
     To be recuperated                                       3,280
     Complementary (new operation)                           1,639                              4,891
     Population Growth                                         152        203          205        207       258          261
     Total incremental in year                  15,226       5,071        203          205      5,098       258          261
     Total Cumulated new connections            15,226      20,297      20,500       20,705    25,803    26,061        26,322      32,118

   Incremental Population Connected             76,374      98,053      99,034     100,024    125,514   126,770       128,037     156,230

    Percent Capacity Utilization                  51%          68%        68%          69%        86%       87%          88%        101%

A.4. Camburi (Vitoria and Serra)

   Incremental Connections                      1,036        1,046      1,057        1,067      1,078     1,089         1,100       1,342
   Incremental Population Connected             6,020        6,080      6,141        6,203      6,265     6,327         6,391       7,796

A.5. Jacaraipe Velha (Serra)

   Incremental Connections (total up to 2004)     697          704        711          718        725       733          740         903
   Incremental Population Connected             4,050        4,091      4,132        4,173      4,215     4,257         4,299       5,245

A.6. Population growth (Crecimento Vegetativo)- Grande Vitoria

   Incremental Connections (total up to 2004)   4,305        4,348      4,392        4,435      4,480     4,525         4,570       5,575
   Incremental Population Connected             25,012      25,262      25,515       25,770    26,028    26,288        26,551      32,392

Total Grande Vitoria
   Incremental Connections                      30,863      41,736      47,549       50,321    58,011    58,592        59,178      72,208
   Incremental Population Connected            187,114     257,099     317,621     334,667    376,373  380,138        383,939     468,472




                                                                 - 81 -

B. Guarapari

B.1. Praia do Morro
   Incremental Connections
     In operating condition                     4,528
     To be recuperated                                        505
     Complementary (new operation)                                    2,500
     Population Growth                                         45       51       76        77      78       79
      Total incremental in year                 4,528         550     2,551      76        77      78       79
     Total Cumulated new connections            4,528       5,078     7,629    7,705    7,782    7,860    7,939    9,687



   Percent Capacity Utilization                  62%          66%      83%      84%       84%     85%      85%        97%

    Incremental Population Connected          52,033      55,489     82,044   82,864   83,693   84,530   85,375   104,174

B.2. Population Growth (Crecimento Vegetativo)
   Incremental Connections (up to 2004)          175          177      179      180       182     184      186        227
   Incremental Population Connected             1,017       1,027     1,037    1,048    1,058    1,069    1,079    1,317

Total Guarapari
   Incremental Connections                      4,703       5,255     7,808    7,885    7,964    8,044    8,125    9,914
   Incremental Population Connected           53,050      56,516     83,081   83,912   84,751   85,599   86,454   105,491



C. Other Cities in the Interior

C.1 Santa Maria de Jetiba
   Incremental Connections (up to 2004)         1,090       1,101     1,112    1,123    1,134    1,146    1,157    1,412
   Incremental Population Connected             6,333       6,396     6,460    6,525    6,590    6,656    6,723    8,201
C.2 Domingos Martins
   Incremental Connections                       639          645      652      658       665     672      678        828
   Incremental Population Connected             3,713       3,750     3,787    3,825    3,863    3,902    3,941    4,808
C.3 Other Systems -Population Growth (Crecimento Vegetativo)
   Incremental Connections (up to 2004)          654          661      667      674       681     687      694        847
   Incremental Population Connected             3,800       3,838     3,876    3,915    3,954    3,994    4,034    4,921

Total Other Cities in the Interior
   Incremental Connections                      2,383       2,407     2,431    2,455    2,480    2,505    2,530    3,086
   Incremental Population Connected           13,845      13,984     14,124   14,265   14,407   14,551   14,697   17,930



TOTAL PROJECT

   Incremental Connections                    37,949      49,398     57,788   60,661   68,455   69,140   69,833   85,207
   Incremental Population Connected           254,008    327,599    414,825  432,843  475,531  480,288  485,090   591,893




                                                                 - 82 -

                                                   Annex 3, Table 3.2. Cost-Benefit Analysis

                                                         Treated Sewage Coverage


                                                     1993       2000         2002        2003        2004       2006       2009      2010

Total Population- State (IBGE)                            3,104,667     3,201,722   3,250,219   3,298,577  3,394,571  3,533,711 3,578,025

Total urban population (+2.5% p.a.)             2,048,000 2,463,049     2,587,741   2,652,434   2,718,745  2,856,382  3,076,011 3,152,911

of which: in CESAN's area                       1,512,000               1,868,416   1,915,126   1,963,005  2,062,382  2,220,959 2,276,483

Urban population covered by CESAN                                        378,403

of which: Population from Project                                         50,000       50,500    257,300    418,140    483,703   488,539

of which: Population outside project                                     328,403      331,687    335,004    338,354    341,737   345,155

Total urban population covered in CESAN's area                           378,403      382,187    592,304    756,494    825,440   833,694

Coverage of Urban Pop. in CESAN area                 11%                     20%          20%        30%        37%        37%       37%

Coverage Urban Pop.in CESAN,excluding project                                18%

% of urban population in CESAN's area                74%                     72%


Vitoria

Population growth rate                                            1.2          1.2          1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2       1.2

Total population- Vitoria                                    291,941      298,990     302,577     306,208    313,602    325,027   328,928


Treated sewage coverage:

Total connections:

    Camburi1/                                                 11,365       11,501       11,639     11,779     11,920     12,063    12,208

    Mulemba                                                                                         2,094      5,486      5,653     5,710

    Total                                                     11,365       11,501       11,639     13,873     17,406     17,716    17,918


Population connected

    Camburi                                                   85,238       86,260       87,295     88,343     89,403     90,476    91,562

    Mulemba                                                                                        27,502     80,117     82,544    83,370

    Total                                                     85,238       86,260       87,295    115,845    169,520    173,020   174,932

Coverage (%)-Revised Estimate                                   29%          29%          29%        38%        54%        53%       53%


Appraisal estimate- at end of design period

Connections:

    Camburi (including Fatima and PROSEGE)                                                                                                  7,601

    Vitoria Centro                                                                                                                         11,386

    Praia do Canto                                                                                                                         22,633

    Paul                                                                                                                                    6,836

    Total                                                                                                                                  48,456


Population connected

    Camburi                                                                                                                                56,332

    Vitoria Centro                                                                                                                         78,660

    Praia do Canto                                                                                                                         212,000

    Paul                                                                                                                                   39,258

    Total                                                                                                                                  386,250


Coverage of 2009 population                                                                                               119%

Coverage of 2010 population




                                                                     - 83 -

                                 1993    2000        2002          2003          2004       2006     2009     2010
Vila Velha
Growth rate                                3.0        3.0            3.0            3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0
Total Population                       345,880   366,944       377,952        389,291     412,999  451,295  464,834


Treated sewage coverage:
Total connections:
   Praia da Costa                                                                7,505     15,404  20,532   20,737


Total population connected                                                     48,155     102,682  133,952  135,291


Coverage- Revised Estimate                                                       12%        25%      30%      29%


Appraisal Target


Connections:
   Praia da Costa                                                                                                   24,490
Population                                                                                                         207,045


% coverage of 2009 population                                                                        46%



Serra
                                           4.2        4.2            4.2            4.2       4.2      4.2      4.2
Total population                       322,518   350,178       364,886        380,211     412,820  467,050  486,666


Treated sewage coverage:
Total connections:
  Jacaraipe Velha
      pre-exiting station
     additional project                               697


   Total                                              697


Total population connected                          3,970         4,010          4,050     4,132    4,257    4,300


Coverage-Revised Estimate                             1%
Appraisal Target                              none (except Fatima, integrated to Vitoria)


Cariacica


Population growth                          1.9        1.9            1.9            1.9       1.9      1.9      1.9
Total population                       323,861   336,285       342,674        349,185     362,580  383,642  390,931


Total connections                                                              15,226      20,500  26,061   26,322
Population connected                                                           76,374      99,034  126,770  128,037


Coverage-Revised Estimate                                                        22%        27%      33%      33%


Appraisal Target


connections
population


coverage 2009 population                                                                             37%




                                        - 84 -

                                                                     1993         2000          2002          2003      2004         2006          2009       2010
Vitoria/Vila Velha/Cariacica/Serra
Total population                                                             1,284,200    1,352,397    1,388,090   1,424,895   1,502,000     1,627,014   1,671,359
population connected                                                           85,238         90,230       91,305   244,424      375,368        437,999   442,560
Coverage-Revised Estimate                                                           7%            7%           7%       17%           25%          27%        26%


Appraisal target-pop. connected                                               697,280                                                        1,085,620
   coverage                                                                        54%                                                             67%
end-dec 1999:774,400 direct beneficiaries (Annex 16, p 106), with 86.8% of connections in GV, plus Camburi from PROSEGE, estimated at appraisal at
3345 connections, or 25,100 beneficiaries. Total:697,280.
At saturation: 1,221,800*86.8% +Camburi (25,100)= 1,085,620


Vitoria/Vila Velha/Cariacica
Total population                                                              961,682     1,002,218    1,023,204   1,044,684   1,089,180     1,159,964   1,184,693
population connected                                                           85,238         86,260       87,295   240,374      371,236        433,742   438,260
coverage                                                                            9%            9%           9%       23%           34%          37%        37%


appraisal target:population connected: 1,085,620                                                                                                   94%



Guarapari


Population growth                                                                   4.1            4.1         4.1        4.1          4.1           4.1        4.1
Total population                                                                88,216        95,598        99,518   103,598     107,845        112,267    116,870


Total connections/Praia do Morro                                                                                       4,528        7,629         7,860      7,939
Population connected                                                                                                  52,033       82,044         84,530    85,375


Coverage- Revised Estimate                                                                                              50%           76%          75%        73%



Appraisal target
Connections:
   Praia do Morro                                                                                                                                                   6,265
  Centro                                                                                                                                                            4,291
  Total                                                                                                                                                             10,556


Population connected
   Praia do Morro                                                                                                                                                  152,344
  Centro                                                                                                                                                            84,724
  Total                                                                         89,700                                                                             237,068


Coverage 2000 population                                                                                                                                             269%
Coverage of 2009 population                                                                                                                                          211%


end-1999: annex 16: 10.2% of connections = 774,400*0.102= 89,700
Saturation expected by 2023

1/ Camburi treatment station capacity: 232 l/s, equivalent to 7,316,352 m3/year, or about 15,000 connections
Note: Rates of population growth assumed to be the same as average growth rates as between 1991 and 2000,
decreasing by 0.5 point beyond.




                                                                                 - 85 -

                                                                 Annex 3, Table 3.3. Cost-Benefit Analysis
                                          Willingness to Pay, as per Staff Appraisal Report and Contingency Valuation Study

                                                                      (Reais per month per household)


                                                                               Corrected by
                                                                                   IPCA                   Corrected by
                                                           CV Study                  to                       IPCA         Corrected to reflect   Corrected to reflect
                                                          Sept/Oct 93           end june 94               end-june 94-     11% decrease in          lower sewerage
                                                           (end Sept)          (21.28 times) 1-Jul-94     to aug. 2003      real income 1/             coverage
                                                           US$         CR$               CR$     Reais     Reais     US$     Reais          US$      Reais         US$
Water                                                             (130/US$)


Group 1 (Rationed to 24 hours)                             6.66       865.8          18,424      6.70      18.00     6.00    17.62          5.87
Group 2 (Rationed to less rationed)                        3.64       473.2          10,070      3.66       9.84     3.28      9.63         3.21
Group 3 (new 24-hour connections-low income)               8.94      1162.2          24,732      8.99      24.16     8.05    23.65          7.88
Group 4 (new connections, rationed)                        5.91       768.3          16,349      5.95      15.97     5.32    15.64          5.21
Group 5- (new 24 hour connections)- SAR estimate          39.61      5149.3         109,577      39.85    107.03    35.68   104.79         34.93
Group 5- Alternative estimate                             20.00        2600          55,328      20.12     54.04    18.01    52.91         17.64
Group 6 (visitors- Rationed to 24 hours)                   8.82      1146.6          24,400      8.87      23.83     7.94    23.33          7.78
                                                                                                                                                Av. Cons-m3      R$/m3
Weighted Average- Rationed connections                                                                                       15.95          5.32
Weighted Average- New connections                                                                                            51.45         17.15     24.25          2.12


Sewerage


Collection (connected households)                           8.2      1066.0          22,684      8.25      22.16     7.39    21.69          7.23     21.69         7.23
Recreation (all households)                                7.82      1016.6          21,633      7.87      21.13     7.04    20.69          6.90        8.2        2.73
Environmental Recovery (all households)                    5.82       756.6          16,100      5.85      15.73     5.24    15.40          5.13        6.2        2.07



1/ Assuming an income elasticity of demand of 0.19 (as calculated in Contingency Valuation Study)



Re-estimated Group 5 WTP
(Based on Futura 1995 Study- Aspectos Socio-Economicos dos Consumidores Residenciais Atendidos plea CESAN)


Alternative 1
Group 3 WTP: US$8.94 in 1993
income elasticity of demand: 0.19
Group 3 average income: 1.4 Minimum Wages
Group 5 average income: 8.4 Minimum Wages (average customer- Futura 1995 estimates)
Group 3 average consumption: 15 m3 per month
Group 5 average consumption: 15 +(0.19*500%*15)= 29 m3
Group 5 WTP: US$8.94*1.93= US$17.2 (in 1993)


Alternative 2
Group 3 consumption assumed to be minimum consumption of 10 m3 per month
Group 5 consumption assumed to be average for residential customers: 19.2 m3 in 1995, plus 30% losses =25 m3
WTP of Group 5 assumed to increase in proportion to consumption: US$8.94*(25/10)=US$22.3 per month


Average of the two alternatives: US$19.8, say US$20 per month in 1993
(consistent with March 1996 1995 Tariff Study assumption of a maximum WTP of US$20 per month)



Health expenditures per household


US$0.67 per person per year (SAR), in Sept/Oct 1993, equivalent to R$0.674 in July 1994, and to
R$1.8 in mid- 1993, 71% of which (R$1.3) related to water-borne diseases.




                                                                                 - 86 -

                              Annex 3, Table 3.4. Cost-Benefit Analysis
                           Brazil. Average Income of Occupied Persons


                                                           Nominal
                     Nominal                  Exchange Income                        Inflation    Real
                     Income       Index          Rate       in US$      Index          IPCA      Income      Index


Sept/Oct 1993           366.5         100            1.00      366.5       100           100        366.5        100
Jul. 1994               341.21          93           0.94      363.0         99          130        262.9         72
Dec. 1994               440.53        120            0.87      506.4       138           113        389.7        106
Dec. 1995               600.62        164            0.97      619.2       169           138        434.3        119
Dec. 1996               686.66        187            1.04      660.3       180           151        453.3        124
Dec. 1997               744.11        203            1.12      667.4       182           159        466.7        127
Dec. 1998               758.1         207            1.20      631.8       172           162        467.7        128
Dec. 1999               757.68        207            1.80      420.9       115           177        429.1        117
Dec. 2000               805.07        220            1.95      412.9       113           187        430.2        117
Dec. 2001               803.45        219            2.31      347.8         95          201        398.8        109
Dec. 2002               958.9         262            3.53      271.6         74          227        423.0        115
Aug. 2003               795.3         217            3.00      265.1         72          243        327.2         89



Note: 1993: in URVs; subsequently: in Reais
      Dec. 2002 and August 2003: adjusted to be consistent with former methodology
      (5.5% lower on average during overlapping period)


Source: IBGE- Pesquisa Mensal de Emprego



                      Nominal Income (Reais)              Real Income (Reais)             Income in USDollars


              300


              250


              200


              150
      Index

              100


                50


                  0


                    1993     1994    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
                         Jul.    Dec.    Dec.    Dec.    Dec.    Dec.    Dec.    Dec.    Dec.    Dec.    Aug.
            Sept/Oct                                               Year




                                                                          - 87 -

               Annex 3, Table 3.5. Structure of Water Monthly Consumption- 1993 and 2003

Incremental consumption 1993-2003
                                                     Incremental    (Economias)    Incremental   Average volume
                                 Volume-m3/month       Volume     No. of Customers   number    per customer (m3/mth)
                                   Sep-93 Aug-03       m3/mth     Sep-93     Aug-03                 Sep-93   Aug-03
Residential
Rustico                               852     429           -423   64,746    30,743   -34,003          13.2    14.0
Popular                             2,444   3,230            786  158,707  251,652     92,945          15.4    12.8
standard                            2,812   4,129          1,317  158,846  297,693   138,847           17.7    13.9
superior                              244     417            173   8,734     17,838     9,104          27.9    23.4
special                               116                   -116   2,999               -2,999          38.7
total residential                   6,468   8,205          1,737  394,032  597,926   203,894           16.4    13.7
thousand m3 per year                                      20,844


Other, except CVRD and CST
small commercial                      491     410            -81   29,027    30,280     1,253          16.9    13.5
other commercial                      413     374            -39   1,652      5,275     3,623        250.0     70.9
industrial                            365     197           -168      890     1,287       397        410.1    153.1
public                                330     442            112   4,776      7,309     2,533          69.1    60.5
subtotal other                      1,599   1,423           -176   36,345    44,151     7,806          44.0    32.2
thousand m3 per year                                      -2,112


Total, except CVRD and CST          8,067   9,628          1,561  430,377  642,077   211,700           18.7    15.0


CVRD+CST                            3,576   3,010           -566        2         2                1788000 1505000
thousand m3 per year                                      -6,792


Subtotal other and CVRD/CST         5,175   4,433           -742   36,347    44,153     7,806      1788044 1505032
thousand m3 per year                                      -8,904


TOTAL invoiced                     11,643  12,638            995  430,379  642,079   211,700           27.1    19.7


Source: Staff Appraisal Report (1993) and CESAN (2003)



Incremental yearly water volume invoiced over the period 1993-2003 (increments relative to 1993)
(Thousand m3 per Year)


                                                    Incremental
                                                    Volume
                                     Year           Invoiced


                                     1994
                                     1995                  7684
                                     1996                 11821
                                     1997                 14122
                                     1998                 20149
                                     1999                 15740
                                     2000                 12869
                                     2001                 11196
                                     2002                 10807
                                     2003                 13824


Source: CESAN                                             - 88 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Identification              4    TM(Ec), WP Sp, SecSp,
              November 1992                    Env.Eng.
              Preparation                 1    EnvEng.
              February 1993
              Preparation April           2    TM (Ec), Ec
              1993
              Preparation May             4    TM (Ec), EnvSp, FA & Ec.,
              1993                             EnvEng.,
              Preappraisal July           6    TM (Ec), WR Eng., EnvSp, FA
              1993                             & Ec., EnvEng., Ec


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal                   7    TM (Ec), FA., Ec.,EnvSp.,
              November 1993                    FA & Ec., EnvEng.,


 Supervision
              November-                   3    TM (Ec), P, D                     HS             HS
              December
              Launch
              Workshop
              March 1995                  3    TM (Ec), Eng. EnvS                HS             HS
              July 1995                   2    TM (Ec), P                        S               S
              February 1996               1     TM (Ec)                          U               S
              April-May 1996              2    TM (Ec), Eng                      U               S
              (Wash. DC)
              August 1996                 3    TM (Ec), FA, SanEng               U               S
              November 1996               2    TM (Ec), Eng                      S               S
              June 1997                   1    TM (Ec)                           U               S
              October 1997                3    TM(Ec), SanEng, Eng               U               S
              March 1998                  2    TM (Ec), Eng                      U               U
              May-June 1998               7    TM (Ec), Eng, EnvSp, Ec, PSD,     U               U
              Mid-Term Review                  FA, P
              September 1998              1    TM (Ec)                           U               U
              November 1998               3    TM (Ec), Eng, FA                  U               U
              February 1999               3    TM (Ec), Eng, PSD                 U               U
              May 1999                    2    TM (Ec), Eng                      S               S
              October- November           2    TM (Ec), Eng                      U               U
              1999
              January-February            3    TM (Ec), Eng, P                   S               S
              2000
              May-June 2000               3    TM (Ec), Eng, SS                  S               S

                                                - 89 -

               November 2000                  2   CoTM (Eng), P                      S    S
               January-February               3   SecM, TM (Ec), Eng                 S    S
               2001
               June 2001                      2   TM (Ec), CoTM (Eng)                S    S
               October 2001                   3   TM (Ec), CoTM (Eng), Eng           S    S
               March 2002                     3   TM (Ec), CoTM (Eng), Eng           U    U
               December 2002                  2   CoTM (Eng), Eng                    S    S
               March-April 2003               3   CoTM (Eng), Eng, P                 S    S
               June-July 2003                 1   CoTM (Eng)                         S    S

 ICR
               June-July 2003                3     CoTM (Eng), Ec, Eng
               October 2003                  2     Ec, Eng                                S

TM                Task Manager
CoTM              Co-Task Manager
WR Eng            Water Resource Engineer
P                 Procurement
D                 Disbursement Officer
EnvSp             Environmental Specialist
Eng               Engineer
EnvEng            Environmental Engineer
SanEng            Sanitary Engineer
FA                Financial Analyst
Ec                Economist
PSD               Private Sector Development Specialist
SS                Social Scientist
SecM              Sector Manager
SecSp             Sector Specialist


(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   63.6                         316.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        49.5                         179.9
  Supervision                                 185.8                         946.0
  ICR                                          13.2                           41.2
  Total                                       312.1                        1483.1




                                                   - 90 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 91 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 92 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

(available in project files)

A. Borrower's Project Completion Report

B. Completion Mission- Aide-Mémoire, June 30-July 1, 2003

C. ICR Preparation Mission- Aide-Mémoire, October 31, 2003

D. Internal Rates of Return Calculations and Detailed Assumptions.
        D.1. Sewerage- Base Case
        D.2. Water- Base Case
        D.3. Alternative 1. Water (all new connections)
        D.4. Alternative 2. Water (project investments only)

E. Changes in Tariff Structure since 1993




                                                  - 93 -

Additional Annex 8. Map




                           - 94 -

- 95 -

