Report No. PID2034
Project Name                     Poland-Podhale Geothermal District Heating (@+)
and Environment Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Thermal; Other Power & Energy Conversion
Project ID                       PLPE37339
Borrower(s)                      PEC GEOTERMIA PODHALANSKA, S.A.
Implementing Agency              PEC GEOTERMIA PODHALANSKA, S.A.
Address: Ul. Szymony 17a, 34-500 Zakopane
Contact: Piotr Dlugosz, President
Tel:    +48-18-201-5041
Fax:    +48-18-201-5044
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 5, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         December 1-15, 1999 (completed)
Projected Board Date             May 20, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The Government of Poland has made much progress toward achieving
environmental sustainability, especially in the areas of (i) establishing
short- and medium-term priorities; (ii) preparing for the requirements of the
EU environmental directives; (iii) establishing environmental standards and a
system of fining polluters; and (iv) funding environmental projects.
However, the energy sector in the Podhale project area is still dominated by
small, inefficient coal- and coke-fired boilers for individual home heating.
The resulting air pollution during the heating season has harmful effects on
human health and probably constrains tourism development, the mainstay of the
local commerce.
In Poland's network fuel subsectors (gas, electricity, district heat),
average prices are increasingly reflective of economic costs. Explicit
subsidies for municipal district heating tariffs were eliminated by the
Government as of January 1, 1998. Cross-subsidies for small users of
electricity and gas have been reduced.
The Energy Law of 1997 led to secondary legislation concerning heat, issued
in 1998, and a deregulation of heat prices. The Government has no longer a
price control function. Instead, the Voivodship approves an energy master
plan, and the Central Government's Energy Regulatory Office (URE) provides a
license for heat operations and monitors heat tariffs of individual heating
companies.
2. Objectives
The primary development objective of the Project is, through increased
utilization of clean energy resources such as geothermal heat and natural gas



in the Podhale region of Southern Poland, to reduce air pollution from local
coal-fired space-heating boilers. This objective will be achieved by means of
developing a geothermal district heating system with supplemental gas-fired
peaking capacity to provide heat to seven municipalities in the Podhale area.
Replacing polluting fuels is expected to provide cleaner air and greater
comfort for the inhabitants, and increase the efficiency of the local heating
systems. Significant reductions in respiratory disease are anticipated from
the decreases in emissions of particulates from coal and coke combustion. The
proposed improvements will also reduce the environmental damage to the biota
in the neighboring national parks and protected areas. The improved
environmental quality of the Podhale area is expected to make it more
attractive for tourism.
The associated global environmental objective is to reduce C02 emissions in
order to help Poland meet its international obligations under the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The reduction of
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions such as C02 provides an additional motive for
the Government of Poland to pursue the Project. It is expected that, for the
whole area to be covered by the Project, over the period from 1995 to 2024,
C02 emissions will be reduced by 2.5 million tons.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The promotion of renewable energy resources, linkage of environmental
benefits to project funding, and leveraging of private sector participation
are the areas in which the Bank can provide leadership. The Bank has played a
critical role in developing the Project concept and coordinating co-financing
for both Project preparation and implementation. The Bank's involvement also
ensured careful assessment of Project risks and systematic consideration of
the geological, technical, environmental and marketing issues involved. In
the area of GHG emissions abatement, the role of the Bank is particularly
strong. It has a demonstrated comparative advantage in mobilizing external
co-financing for projects related to carbon abatement and possesses the
methodology, monitoring and risk mitigation techniques needed to secure such
funding.
4. Description
Project Background
The efforts to find geothermal resources in the Podhale valley were initiated
in the late 1980s by the Mineral and Energy Economics Research Center of the
Polish Academy of Sciences in Krakow, based on data furnished by oil
exploration efforts in the region. The well, Banska IG-1, drilled in 1981,
served as the starting point for an expansion of those research activities.
In 1993 - 1995, a pilot plant was constructed on the basis of the first
geothermal doublet. The first geothermal heat supply to the village of Banska
Nizna started in 1995. The Bank's active involvement in the project started
in 1995, when the second phase of the project began. Geothermal heat supply
to the village of Bialy Dunajec started in 1998. However, the available
connections in Zakopane to the new district heating network are currently
receiving heat from the gas-fired peaking plant instead of geothermal heat
because funds have not been available to connect Zakopane to the existing
geothermal wells.
-2-



The Project in its complete form will provide district heat to a majority of
potential customers in the main Podhale Valley. The service area will extend
about 14 km from the production wells to the City of Zakopane and about 7 km
in the opposite direction from the well field to Nowy Targ. The transmission
line between the geothermal wells and Zakopane will be completed. In addition
to the villages of Banska Nizna and Bialy Dunajec already receiving
geothermal heat, three other villages will be connected by 2002. Three
district heating boiler houses in Nowy Targ will be connected in 2001. The
main components of the full project are:
A. Production and Transmission of Heat, including:
drilling seven geothermal wells (of which four wells are already
completed) - three for production and four for reinjection. The
production wells will extract low-enthalpy (- 85 to 87.5 C
temperature) geothermal waters in the Podhale basin to cover the
base-load heat demand for the entire project service area;
constructing a base-load geothermal district heating plant with a
capacity of approximately 38 to 43 MWt (currently, at 15MWt heat
exchanger capacity and 28 to 32 MWt geothermal resource capacity)
delivering 1,015 TJ/year of geothermal heat;
constructing an absorption heat pump plant with two associated
gas-fired hot water boilers and a gas network pressure reduction
station; with a total capacity of 33 MW, the plant will deliver
355 TJ/year of heat - 60t   produced by gas firing and 40t by
extracting additional heat from geothermal water;
constructing a 48 MWt peak-load natural gas plant in Zakopane
(currently at 22 MWt) and a similar plant in Nowy Targ (planned at
14 MWt) for a combined production of about 73 TJ/year of heat;
expanding the existing district heating infrastructure in the
Podhale area by building about 20 km of new pipelines for the
transmission of hot water, constructing two gas transmission
pipelines, electric connections, and pumping stations.
small-scale acquisition of land for new drilling sites,
constructing new buildings and expanding existing buildings for
the production facilities.
B. Heat Distribution Network Development - constructing a new heat
distribution network (about 80 km) for the Podhale area and connecting
customers to this network.
C. Installation of Heat Exchangers and Meters in individual households
and other buildings; this component also includes provision of
miscellaneous tools and vehicles for the implementing company.
D. The Project Management component is aimed at institutional strengthening
of PEC/GP, with an emphasis on the provision of technical consultant services
and specialized services such as financial management and auditing.
E. The Monitoring and Evaluation component is aimed at monitoring and
evaluating (M&E) the global environmental benefits from the Project. This
will be based on a monitoring and evaluation protocol for carbon reduction
projects developed with the assistance of the GEF. The objective is to make a
credible assessment of carbon reductions, which in turn would help establish
the potential for a broader introduction of geothermal district heating in
Poland and elsewhere in Central and Eastern Europe.
-3 -



The estimated costs by component (US$ million) can be summarized as follows:
Production and Transmission of Heat -                             43.2
Heat Distribution -                                               24.3
Provision of Heat Exchangers, Meters, Other Goods -               4.6
Project Management -                                              0.4
Monitoring and Evaluation of Environmental Benefits -             0.4
Contingencies -                                                   7.1
Interest during construction -                                    5.8
Incremental working capital -                                     13.1
Front-end fee -                                                   0.38
Total:                                                            99.3
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
World Bank (IBRD)                                                 38.2
European Union                                                    18.2
Government of Denmark                                             0.6
Global Environment Facility                                       5.4
National Fund for Environm. Protection/Water Mgmt (Poland)        12.7
EcoFund (Poland)                                                  1.3
Other Local Contribution                                          20.4
Usaid                                                             2.5
Total:                                                            99.3
Note: The financing plan shown above covers the period 1995 - 2004, including
the historical contributions made by various parties prior to the Bank's
involvement in the project - specifically, the Polish National Fund for
Environmental Protection and Water Management, the Polish EcoFund, and the
European Union.
6. Implementation
The Project will be implemented by PEC Geotermia Podhalanska, S.A. (PEC/GP).
PEC/GP was founded in mid-1998 as a result of a merger between Geotermia
Podhalanska (GP) and the Tatry district heating company of Zakopane. GP had
been in operation as a corporation since 1994. After the merger, PEC/GP is
still a small company with a simple organization, about 70 employees, and a
three-man board of directors. Existing departments within PEC/GP will carry
out project management.
As of July 1, 1998, PEC/GP is governed by a supervisory board consisting of
six representatives drawn from the National Fund (3), the Municipality of
Zakopane (2), and Hydrotrest (1). The Company is managed by a three-member
management board, consisting of the President, and two Vice Presidents.
The company's majority owner is the Polish National Fund for Environmental
Protection and Water Management.
A detailed Project Implementation Plan, being developed jointly by the staff
of PEC/GP and World Bank staff, is under preparation.
Financial Management: The capital expenditure part of the Project will in
principle be identical to the company's total investment program for 2000 -
2003. The Project's financial management will be handled by the Financial and
- 4 -



Economic Department/Division and the Strategy Unit. PEC/GP's financial
management organization system and procedures are fairly straight-forward.
PEC/GP's financial statements will be prepared in accordance with
International Accounting Standards/Polish Accounting Law, while the Project
Financial Statements would be prepared in accordance with the format provided
by the World Bank. Both would be audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank. A financial management consultant will assist in
identifying necessary reporting requirements both for internal and external
use.
7. Sustainability
Market penetration: The market penetration of geothermal energy has been at
the center of the Bank's assessment of this Project since the very beginning
of its involvement. The current connections and contractual commitments with
customers already assure about 400 TJ of heat sales (or 339 of the project
target for geothermal heat supply). The sustainability of the progress with
market penetration is an obvious key to the success of the Project, and early
experience with market penetration should be closely monitored to improve the
forecasts for future penetration rates.
Sustainability of the Project results will also depend on whether a customer
that converts to geothermal energy will continue to use this source of heat
over the long term. Once converted, the customer may or may not retain the
option of reverting to the existing boiler system. For those who do, the
continuing economic comparison would be between geothermal and fuel costs
plus an allowance for comfort and labor differentials. It should be noted
that those customers that obtain their heat exchangers from PEC/GP and wish
to pay through a tariff adder will be required to continue on geothermal heat
for 10 years or to pay the full remaining balance of the heat exchanger cost
when they exit the system.
Financial sustainability: PEC/GP is expected to operate on a commercial basis
with no need for continuing operating subsidies as long as heat tariffs are
allowed to cover the base costs. The financial analysis shows adequate rates
of return based on heat prices that are below average for similar places in
Poland. The conversion rate projections are based on cost advantages to the
customers that convert. The grant funding for local and global environmental
externalities will contribute to PEC/GP's revenues without a tariff increase.
Of course, solidifying the customer base is still essential, and PEC/GP is
expending much effort in pre-arranging long-term heat supply contracts.
Legal and regulatory environment: The passage of environmental, mining and
energy legislation and the development of a supportive regulatory framework
are important enabling factors for renewable energy development. The Project
meets the stipulations of the Mining and Geological Law as well as the Energy
Law and related district heating regulations. Replication of the Project's
concept would benefit significantly from a policy which taxes the users of
polluting fuels and/or establishes the basis of granting funds for clean and
renewable energy projects to cover measurable environmental benefits.
Technical sustainability and risks: All yield and sustainability indicators
for the geothermal resource are very promising to date. The minimum estimated
period between the drilling of the wells and any impact of the lower-
temperature reinjection waters on the productivity of the production wells
has been estimated at well over 25 years. There are undoubtedly some
remaining technical risks associated with a partially completed geothermal
- 5-



project. However, the geothermal reservoir has been extensively studied, and
production from the two completed doublets (out of three envisaged for the
full project) is already sufficient to provide 50-60% of the total geothermal
heat requirement for the full Project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Geothermal projects are quite capital-intensive, with large investment costs
up-front that are difficult to predict accurately due to the uncertainties of
drilling costs and reservoir yields. Thus, while the drilling costs and well
yields to date have been better than anticipated, the current plan for
completion of the project envisages a reduced use of geothermal resources by
incorporating gas-fired absorption heat pumps into the project design.
The key link between measurable environmental benefits both at the local and
global levels was not recognized in the early planning for this project since
funding was not tied to explicit achievement, and GEF grants were not readily
available at that time. The clear illustration of these linkages in
establishing the funding package for this project will provide useful
guidance for formulation of future projects to optimize the economic and
environmental balance.
Some useful lessons can be drawn from the partially completed Pyrzyce project
(not Bank-financed), where the annual production of geothermal energy is
behind the targets. The Danish EPA reports that the emission reductions are
short of expectations accordingly, as those inhabitants not having access to
the district heating network continue to use fossil fuels. The project
highlighted the importance of (i) an up-to-date and realistic marketing study
to support the energy demand projections; (ii) a good marketing strategy that
includes various categories of customers; (iii) adequate supervision during
construction - particularly, if the natural conditions are difficult (the
salinity of the geothermal waters in Pyrzyce is 14%, as opposed to less than
0.3% in Podhale). Nevertheless, the early problems have now been resolved,
and, supported by the Danish EPA, technical consultants are helping Pyrzyce
to bring the plant to full operation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:
The primary, long-term environmental impacts of the project are clearly
positive both in terms of local and global emissions of air pollutants.
Negative impacts are minimal and related mostly to the temporary
inconveniences associated with construction processes. No resettlement of
people is required under the Project. There will be only limited land
acquisition, for which a Land Acquisition Plan is prepared by PEC/GP as a
condition of negotiations. Loan or GEF Grant proceeds will not finance land
acquisition. In accordance with OP/BP/GP 4.01, the Borrower has prepared an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
The reduction in the emissions of particulate matter are expected to be about
701-702 tons/year throughout the life of the Project (1995 to 2024). The
total reduction in particulate emissions relative to the no-project scenario
will be between 14.9 and 18.3 thousand tons over the same period. The avoided
emissions of S02 are expected to be about 1,434 tons/year in 1999-2004, 1,291
- 6 -



tons/year in 2005-2024, and 29.9 - 34.5 thousand tons over the life of the
project. The environmental benefits to the project area (Zakopane, Nowy Targ,
and the villages in the conversion area), as well as to the outside
recipients of air pollution from electricity generation, are estimated to be
about US$14.5 million. As regards the global environment, it is expected
that, over the period from 1995 to 2024, the project will have resulted in
C02 emission reductions of about 2.5 million tons.
The available environmental indicators suggest that, while generally not bad
in comparison with some more industrialized areas of Central and Eastern
Europe, the air quality in Zakopane, and especially Nowy Targ, is
characterized by elevated levels of suspended particulate matter due to coal
combustion during the heating season. Currently, both daily (24-hour average)
concentrations and annual mean concentrations of total suspended particulates
(TSP) exceed the national standards in Nowy Targ. In Zakopane, annual mean
concentrations of TSP are within the national standard of 75 micrograms per
cubic meter (ug/m3), but daily average concentrations occasionally exceed the
national standard of 150 ug/m3. The maximum daily average concentration
observed on a single day in 1997 was about 2.5 times the national standard in
both Zakopane and Nowy Targ. Concentrations of S02 are within the norm for
both Zakopane and Nowy Targ.
By suppressing the heating season episodes of high pollution, the project can
make it possible for the Podhale area to meet the WHO guidelines for Europe,
as well the Polish national standard for 24-hour average concentration of
fine particulates (PM10), which is envisaged to be tightened in 2005 from the
current level of 125 ug/m3 to 50 ug/m3. It is unlikely that the Podhale area
would be able to meet this latter standard without massive conversion to
cleaner fuels. It is also important to note that the new EU Directive on
Ambient Air Quality Assessment and Management (96/62/EC) sets the annual
average concentration standard for PM10 at 30 ug/m3 effective January 1,
2005.
Because the peak-load plant will be using natural gas for peak-load shaving,
full consideration will be given to the local concentrations of nitrogen
oxides (NOx) in Zakopane and Nowy Targ. However, given the relatively small
capacity of the peaking plants and the superior combustion technology (low-
NOx burners), this is not expected to be a significant concern.
Impact of the project on other environmental media also needs consideration
as improperly designed or operated geothermal systems may pose some risk of
contaminating drinking water. However, this project employs a closed-loop
design, in which this risk is minimal. The water is supplied to heat
exchangers and then reinjected back into the reservoir without being in
direct contact with the consumer or the environment.
The techniques involved in drilling wells, reclamation of land, well-head
installations, connections, well testing, and geothermal reservoir management
have been tested out on-site during the past five years with the assistance
of technical experts from Denmark and the US. The Polish mining authority
regulations for geothermal resource exploration and development have now
fully evolved and have been implemented by Geotermia Podhalanska. These
include detailed procedures for EIA and licensing subject to environmental
compliance.
The mineralization of the geothermal waters used for the project is mostly in
-7 -



the range of 0.2 - 0.4 g/l, but in some strata of the geothermal reservoir it
may reach about 3.0 g/l. This level of salinity is still remarkably low by
comparison with other geothermal reservoirs currently under development in
Poland and elsewhere in Europe. Nevertheless, the discharge of geothermal
water into the mountain streams in the vicinity of a National Park is
considered undesirable. For this reason, it is important to maintain the
closed-loop system.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Helmut Schreiber
Energy Sector Unit, Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-6910
Fax:         (202) 614-0692 (attn. Victor Loksha)
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending Fabruary 11, 2000.
- 8 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
9



