Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023679 
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 7015 POL
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Podhale Geothermal District Heating and Environment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
and
PEC GEOTERMIA PODHALANSKA, S.A.
Dated June 28, 2000
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023679 
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 7015 POL
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain 
members of the Bank as participants of the GEF and PEC GEOTERMIA PODHALANSKA, S.A.(the 
Recipient). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91\1e5 of March 14, 1991, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94\1e2 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund; 
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank 
has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above;
(D)
by an agreement of even date herewith (the Loan Agreement), the Bank, 
acting in its own capacity, has agreed to make a loan (the Loan) to the Recipient in 
an  amount equal to thirty-eight million three hundred thousand Euro (EUR 38,300,000) 
Page  2
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in the Loan Agreement;
(E)
the Guarantor has secured from the European Union (EU), under an 
agreement (the EU Funding Agreement) entered into between the Guarantor and the EU, 
grant funds (the EU Funding) in an amount of EUR 10,500,000, which the Guarantor 
intents to allocate to the Recipient for purposes of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the EU Funding Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Currency Pool Loans of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985 (as amended through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement: 
(i)
Article I; 
(ii)
Sections 2.01, (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), 
(15), (18), (19) 
and (20),  and Sections 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii)
Section 3.01; 
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09; 
(v)
Article V; 
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (k), (l), (m), 
(n), (o), and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.4; 
(x)
Article XI; and 
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: 
“the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol “SDR” mean 
special drawing 
rights as valued by the International Monetary Fund 
in accordance with its 
Articles of Agreement”; 
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in 
Sections  2.01 (8), and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank 
acting as an implementing agency of the 
GEF, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its 
own capacity; 
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
Recipient; 
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Page  3
Conditions, means this 
Agreement; 
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an account opened by the Bank 
on its books in 
the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant is 
credited; 
(vii)
a new paragraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as 
follows: “an extraordinary situation shall 
have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from 
the GEF.” ; and
(viii) paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as 
follows:
“(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and 
the Bank, the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Recipient and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and 
the following additional terms have the following meanings:  
(a)
“GEF Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
(b)
“GEF Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and 
(c)
“GEF Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
4,000,000). 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Page  4
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project  with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, mining, district heating and environmental 
practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:  
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Conditions 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the GEF Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
(4) months after the end of each such year; (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such 
year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such 
audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditures, the Recipient shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
Page  5
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out the financial obligations set forth in 
Sections 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, and 4.06 of the Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Loan Agreement. 
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Recipient to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan or the allocation to the 
Recipient of the EU 
Funding shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the Loan 
Agreement or the EU Funding Agreement 
respectively.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, or termination is 
not caused by the failure of the Recipient to 
perform any of its 
obligations under the Loan Agreement or with respect to the 
EU 
Funding; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Recipient; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:  
(a)
the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, have 
Page  6
been fulfilled; and  
(b)
the EU Funding Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or the allocation to the Recipient of the EU 
Funding, except only the effectiveness of this GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, have 
been fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The President of the Recipient is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) 
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Recipient:
PEC Geotermia Podhalanska, S. A. 
Ul. Szymony 17a 34-500 
Zakopane 
Poland
Facsimile:
48-18-2015044
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
Page  7
PEC GEOTERMIA PODHALANSKA, S.A.
By /s/ Piotr Dlugosz, President
         /s/  Joanna Gronkowska, Vice President
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
   % of
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
   SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)  Works
660,000
80%
(2)  Goods
     2,350,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
85% of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
(3)  Supply and Installation 
240,000
85%
of equipment under Part B
of the Project
(4)  Consultants’ services: 
100%
(a) Under Part A of the Project
 40,000
(b) Under Part E of the Project
280,000
(5)  Unallocated
430,000
TOTAL
     4,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Republic of Poland for goods or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Republic of Poland; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Republic of Poland or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Republic of Poland. 3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of SDR 800,000, may be made on amount of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after October 1, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts for 
Page  8
goods and supply and installation costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; and (b) 
services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting 
firms and $25,000 equivalent each for individual consultants, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
B.
GEF Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Euro a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the GEF Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts 
to be deposited into the GEF Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) a request from 
the Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Recipient 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the GEF Special Account shall be made exclusively for GEF 
Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of the GEF Special 
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for GEF Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the GEF Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of the 
Loan Agreement; 
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the GEF Special Account; or (B) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the GEF Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole 
or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the GEF Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the GEF 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not a GEF Eligible Expenditure, 
or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
Page  9
promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request, or deposit into the GEF Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the GEF Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the GEF 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for GEF Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the GEF Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of GEF Special Account When Withdrawals 
Are Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex: The term “GEF Authorized Allocation” means an 
amount equivalent to EUR 400,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposited into the GEF Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the GEF Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to EUR  100,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
370,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the GEF Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the GEF Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the GEF Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the GEF Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the GEF Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the GEF 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the GEF Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank requests for deposit into the GEF Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit 
into the GEF Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the GEF Special Account for GEF Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the GEF 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
under one or more of the GEF Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the GEF Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the GEF Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the GEF Special Account as of 
Page  10
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for GEF Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of GEF Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the GEF Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into the GEF Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the GEF Special 
Account’s GEF Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
deposit into the GEF Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the GEF Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has 
determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance GEF Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount 
so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the GEF Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of EUR 
1,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to reduce air pollution caused by local 
coal-fired boilers supplying heat to the Podhale region of southern Poland through the 
establishment of a new geothermal district heating system with supplementary gas 
peaking plants.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Production and Transmission of Heat 
1.
Drilling of three geothermal wells, including one for production and two for 
reinjection, to extract low-enthalpy geothermal waters in the Podhale basin. 
2.
Expansion of the capacity of the existing geothermal and gas-fired heat 
production units in Banska Nizna and Zakopane, and construction of new heat generation 
capacity, including a peak-load plant in Nowy Targ and absorption heat pumps in Banska 
Nizna. 
3.
Expansion of the existing district heating infrastructure in the Podhale area by 
building new pipelines for the transmission of heat, constructing selected gas 
transmission pipelines, electric connections, and pumping stations.   
4.
Expansion of existing buildings and construction of new buildings for the 
production facilities.
Part B:
Heat Distribution 
Construction of new heat distribution network (about 100 km) for the Podhale 
area and connection of customers to this network.
Part C:
Heat Exchangers and Meters and Supply of other Goods  
Page  11
1.
Supply and installation of heat exchangers and heat meters in individual 
households and other buildings. 
2.
Provision of production tools, equipment, and vehicles.
Part D:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, including financial management and audit 
services, for purposes of management of Project implementation.
Part E:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation through an independent agency of the global benefits 
from the Project, such as carbon emission reduction. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods, works and supply and installation contracts shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, works and supply 
and installation contracts, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods, works and supply and installation 
contracts to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for: (a) works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or more each; and (b) goods and 
supply and installation contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
$200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedure
National Competitive Bidding Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
Page  12
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) all contracts for goods, works and supply and installation, 
to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B above; and (b) 
the first contract for works to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred 
to in Part C above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for monitoring and evaluation activities 
under Part E of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the monitoring and evaluation activities under Part E of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  13
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
