Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7015 POL 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023679
Loan Agreement
(Podhale Geothermal District Heating and Environment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PEC GEOTERMIA PODHALANSKA, S. A.
Dated June 28, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7015 POL 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF023679
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and PEC GEOTERMIA PODHALANSKA, S.A., a geothermal company 
established under the laws of the Republic of Poland (the Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) Republic of Poland (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan; 
(C)
the Guarantor has secured from the European Union (EU), under an 
agreement (the EU Funding Agreement) entered into between the Guarantor and the EU, 
grant funds (the EU Funding) in an amount of EUR 10,500,000, which the Guarantor 
intents to allocate to the Borrower for purposes of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the EU Funding Agreement; 
(D)
by an agreement of even date herewith (the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement), the Bank, acting as the implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) has agreed to make a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Borrower 
in the amount of four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,000,000) to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund 
Page  2
Grant Agreement; and  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, the Preamble to this Agreement and the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(c)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower, describing the environmental mitigation, 
monitoring and institutional measures for the Project;  
(d)
“Land Acquisition Plan” means the plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower, providing for processes and appropriate 
compensation for relocation of or loss of income to be incurred by individuals or 
business entities on account of Project implementation;
(e)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the 
Project prepared by the Borrower and adopted pursuant to the provisions of Section 
7.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
(f)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and 
(g)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to thirty-eight 
million three hundred thousand Euro (EUR 38,300,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges in respect of the 
Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium 
in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions.
(b)
On each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in Section 
Page  3
2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and 
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up 
to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to three hundred eighty-three thousand Euro (EUR 383,000). The Borrower 
agrees that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, 
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest, commitment and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: a 
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and the setting of limits on the Variable Rate 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate. 
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to 
the amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, administrative, engineering, mining, district heating, and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
Page  4
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
(4) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such 
year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such 
audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have 
reasonably requested;  
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request; and 
(iv)
by October 1, 2000, appoint auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
perform the 
audits referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) above and in 
Section 4.01 (b) (i) 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditures the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
Page  5
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall  carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 and reiterated in Section 4.01 of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2000, or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan and the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the GEF Trust Fund Grant during 
the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; 
and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
and the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher 
than: (i) 90% for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2001; (ii) 85% for the fiscal 
year ending on December 31, 2002; (iii) 80% for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 
2003; and (iv) for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 
31, 2004, a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher 
than 75%. 
(b)
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of 
such review upon its completion. 
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal year covered by such 
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates in order to meet such 
Page  6
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of 
not less than 2.5% per annum of the 
average current gross value of the 
Borrower’s fixed assets in 
operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank, 
but excluding 
interest and other charges on debt.
(ii)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
(iii)
The average current gross value of the Borrower’s fixed assets in 
operation 
shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross 
value of the 
Borrower's fixed assets in operation at the beginning 
and at the end of the 
fiscal year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the Borrower for the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period 
ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at 
least 1.0 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for 
any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be 
incurred for the fiscal years starting on January 1, 2001, and ending on December 31, 
2006, 1.1 times for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2007, and 1.2 times for the 
fiscal years starting on January 1, 2008, and thereafter.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms 
more than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to 
take account of the Borrower’s rates in effect at the 
time of the 
incurrence of debt even though they were not 
in effect during the 
twelve-month period to which such 
revenues relate and net non-operating 
income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
Page  7
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on debt.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, until December 31, 
2004, the Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the 
ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 55% to 45%.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms 
more than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term “equity” means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not 
allocated to cover specific 
liabilities; and quasi equity resulting 
from grants.
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on: (i) December 
31, 2001, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 5% of the annual 
average of the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, 
for that year and the two next following fiscal years; and (ii) December 31, 2002, 
funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 10% of the annual average of 
the Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred for that year 
and the two next following fiscal years; and (iii) December 31, 2003, funds from 
internal sources equivalent to not less than 35% of the annual average of the 
Borrower’s capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year 
and the two next following fiscal years. 
(b)
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by 
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates in order to 
meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
Page  8
(i)
The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net 
non-operating income and any reduction 
in working capital other than 
cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and 
other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term “working capital other than cash” means the difference 
between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities 
at the end of each 
fiscal year.
(iv)
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 
twelve (12) months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the next 
fiscal year.
(v)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve (12) months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vii)
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred on 
account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to 
operations.
(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, mining, 
district heating, and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers;
Page  9
(b)
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
environmental practices; and
(c)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the allocation to 
the Borrower 
of the EU Funding or the right of the Borrower to withdraw 
the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the EU Funding Agreement and the 
GEF Grant Agreement, 
respectively.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, or 
termination is not caused by the Borrower with 
respect to the EU Funding or by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under the GEF 
Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations 
of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
(b)
The PIP shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed without 
the prior agreement of the Bank.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section; 
and  
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.  
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled; 
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EU Funding Agreement 
or the allocation to the Borrower of the EU Funding, except only the effectiveness of 
the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled; and 
(c)
the PIP, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by the Borrower.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Page  10
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
PEC Geotermia Podhalanska, S.A. 
Ul. Szymony 17a 34-500 
Zakopane 
Poland
Facsimile:
48-18-2015044
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
PEC GEOTERMIA PODHALANSKA, S.A.
By /s/ Piotr Dlugosz, President
  /s/  Joanna Gronkowska, Vice President 
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.
General
Page  11
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Loan
   % of
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
   in EUR)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works 
85%
(a) under Part A(2)
1,960,000
of the Project
(b) under Part B(1)
  240,000
of the Project
(2)
Goods 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% 
(a) under Part A(2)
2,070,000
of local expenditures 
of the Project
(ex-factory cost) and 
(b) under Part B(1)
5,010,000
85% of local expenditures 
of the Project
for other items procured 
(c) under Part A(1)
6,530,000
locally
of the Project
(d) under all other
      28,830,000
parts of the Project
(3)
Consultants;
7,700,000
100%
Services and
Audit fees
(4)
Training
7,620,000
100%
(5)
Technical Services
2,100,000
100%
(6)
Incremental Operating
1,640,000
90% until December 31,
Costs
2002; thereafter 80%
(7)
Fee
  689,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
4,511,000
TOTAL
      68,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor; or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an amount not exceeding EUR 3,830,000 may be made on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: (a) contracts for works 
costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first contract 
for works to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.1 of 
Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, for which withdrawals may be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures only after it has been reviewed by the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of Part D.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this 
Page  12
Agreement; (b) contracts for goods and contracts for Supply and Installation costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent each; (c) services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and $25,000 equivalent each for 
individual consultants. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Euro a special deposit account, in a 
commercial Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
Page  13
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex: The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
of EUR 2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of EUR 
1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed EUR 5,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
Page  14
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed EUR 7,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to reduce air pollution caused by local 
coal-fired boilers supplying heat to the Podhale region of southern Poland through the 
establishment of a new geothermal district heating system with supplementary gas 
peaking plants.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Production and Transmission of Heat 
1.
Drilling of three geothermal wells, including one for production and two for 
reinjection, to extract low-enthalpy geothermal waters in the Podhale basin. 
2.
Expansion of the capacity of the existing geothermal and gas-fired heat 
production units in Banska Nizna and Zakopane, and construction of new heat generation 
capacity, including a peak-load plant in Nowy Targ and absorption heat pumps in Banska 
Nizna. 
3.
Expansion of the existing district heating infrastructure in the Podhale area by 
building new pipelines for the transmission of heat, constructing selected gas 
transmission pipelines, electric connections, and pumping stations.   
4.
Expansion of existing buildings and construction of new buildings for the 
production facilities.
Part B:
Heat Distribution
Construction of new heat distribution network (about 100 km) for the Podhale 
area and connection of customers to this network.
Part C:
Heat Exchangers and Meters and Supply of other Goods  
1.
Supply and installation of heat exchangers and heat meters in individual 
households and other buildings. 
2.
Provision of production tools, equipment, and vehicles.
Part D:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, including financial management and audit 
services, for purposes of management of Project implementation.
Part E:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation through an independent agency of the global benefits 
from the Project, such as carbon emission reduction. 
Page  15
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 5 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
March 1, 2005
4.56%
September 1, 2005
4.66%
March 1, 2006
4.77%
September 1, 2006
4.87% 
March 1, 2007
4.98%
September 1, 2007
5.10%
March 1, 2008
5.21%
September 1, 2008
5.33%
March 1, 2009
5.45%
September 1, 2009
5.57%
March 1, 2010
5.70%
September 2010
5.82%
March 1, 2011
5.96%
September 1, 2011
6.09%
March 1, 2012
6.23%
September 1, 2012
6.37%
March 1, 2013
6.51%
September 1, 2013
6.82%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two (2) months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on 
any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the 
date of  withdrawal. 
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
Page  16
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.  
5.
If the principal amount  of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than on Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods, works and supply and installation contracts shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, works and supply 
and installation contracts, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods, works and supply and installation 
contracts to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for: 
(a)
works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $3,000,000 
equivalent or more each; and 
(b)
goods and supply and installation contracts shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Page  17
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $14,150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $375,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) all contracts for goods, works and supply and installation, 
to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B above; and (b) 
the first contract for works to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred 
to in Part C.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the design of the transition and 
distribution networks under Parts A and B of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Page  18
Least-cost Selection 
1.
Services for implementation of the financial management system improvements, and 
for auditing and designs of distribution and backbone networks, estimated to cost up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $470,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the design of the extension of the peak-load plant in Zakopane and 
other production facilities and the peak-load plant and geothermal base-load plant in 
Nowy Targ under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in the PIP. 
2.
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank by October 31 in each year, 
Page  19
for its review and concurrence, an annual work program for the Project for the 
following calendar year, including procurement and financing plans. 
3.
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank quarterly progress reports on 
Project implementation, not later than 30 days after the end of the quarter. 
4.
By October 31, 2000, the Borrower shall employ a consulting firm acceptable to 
the Bank to undertake the monitoring and evaluation activities under Part E of the 
Project under terms of reference and within a time framework agreed upon with the 
Bank.
5.
The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out 
of the Environmental Management Plan and the Land Acquisition Plan shall be taken in a 
timely manner; and (b) include adequate information on the carrying out of such 
measures in the progress reports referred to in paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
6.
The Borrower shall, in conjunction with the relevant authorities of the 
Guarantor:
(a)
by March 15, 2002, exchange views with the Bank on steps to be taken 
towards increasing private share holding in the Borrower’s capital; 
(b)
by June 30, 2002, complete, under terms of reference agreed upon with the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments a study on the Borrower’s 
strategy for increasing private shareholding in the Borrower’s capital; and  
(c)
based on the findings of such study, and the Bank’s comments thereon, 
commence by September 30, 2002, implementation of said strategy in accordance with a 
time schedule to be agreed upon with the Bank. 
7.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 15, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by March 15, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
