 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14823

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 10/30/2015

              Country: Philippines
            Project ID: P089082                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Ph-gef-manila Third          Project Costs (US$M):                      8.35
                        Sewerage Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      5.00
      Sector Board:       Water                       Cofinancing (US$M):                      3.35

          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                            06/26/2007
                                                              Closing Date:
          Sector(s):      Wastewater Treatment and Disposal (56%); Central government administration (37%);
                          Sub-national government administration (7%)
         Theme(s):        Pollution management and environmental health (25%); Environmental policies and
                          institutions (25%); Water resource management (24%); Other Private Sector Development
                          (13%); Other public sector governance (13%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Jason R. Cardosi          Robert Mark Lacey       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The project development objectives in the Project Document and GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement are identical:

    Assist the Government of the Philippines in the Project Areas in: (a) identifying essential adjustments to
    administrative, institutional, and regulatory practices and existing legislations in order to attract private
    investments in the Recipient’s wastewater sector; (b) increasing the effectiveness of the agencies responsible for
    water pollution control through improved coordination; and (c) promoting innovative, simple and effective
    wastewater treatment techniques.

    According to the Project Document (page 5), the Global Environmental Objectives (GEO) were: to mobilize
    international and domestic financial resources to support the government as it builds a fully-functioning
    partnership between key agencies responsible for environmental management and pollution control, such that
    they can work together to remove the institutional, financial and technical barriers that limit investment in
    pollution control in MM , thereby promoting new, efficient investments in facilities that reduce land-based pollution
    of the East Asia Seas.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

     The project had seven components:
1. Partnership strengthening (appraisal US$ 1.00 million, actual US$ l.00 million)
The component aimed to: (a) strengthen partnerships among the Recipient’s agencies responsible for water
pollution control to improve coordination and effectiveness, through carrying out studies of successful pollution
control and wastewater management partnership models worldwide, and identifying and carrying out measures
for improving existing administrative, institutional, and regulatory practices; (b) establish an integrated
partnership information center in the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) to consolidate
existing data concerning the wastewater sector which would then be disseminated to stakeholders in said sector;
(c) integrate water quality monitoring systems of the Recipient’s agencies responsible for water pollution control;
and (d) expand the public assessment of water services to include sewerage and sanitation services.

2. Planning and Policy Development (appraisal US$ 0.50 million, actual US$ 0.47million)
This component aimed to: (a) update the sewerage and sanitation master plans and applicable standards for
MWSS’ jurisdiction areas to be used in the rate basing 2013; (b) refine policies and procedures including
guidelines for regulating the providers of septic tank desludging; and (c) develop procedures and standards for
implementing the Recipient’s Clean Water Act and the Sanitation Code.

3. Innovative financing (appraisal US$.50 million, actual US$ 0.50 million)
This component assisted the government in developing and testing innovative financing arrangements for the
sewerage and sanitation sector to attract private sector investment in the sewerage and sanitation sector,
including provision for technical assistance.

4. Use of market-based incentives (appraisal US$ .10 million, actual US$ 0.l0 million)
This component would assist the LLDA in improving its environmental user fee systems and implementing
market-based incentives in such systems through provision of technical assistance.

5. Rate rebasing (appraisal US$ .60 million, actual US$0.60 million)
The component provided technical assistance and training to Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
and the Recipient’s relevant government agencies for the preparation and negotiations of 2007/08 rate rebasing
in the water and wastewater sector.

6. Joint sewage and septage treatment plant (appraisal US$ 4.65 million, actual US$ 4.65 million)
This component supported the construction of a joint septage and sewage treatment plant, including the first year
trial operation of the combined plant. This pilot would upgrade a selected sewage treatment plant in Quezon City.


7. Project management (appraisal US$ 1.00 million, actual US$ l.00 million)
This component provided technical assistance and operating support to assist the Department of Environment
and Natural Resources (DENR) in implementing, coordinating, monitoring, evaluating, and supervising the
project and disseminating the project’s results and outcomes.

(Project document, pp 6-7)

Revised Components:
Component 1 – An activity was added to establish Water Quality Management Areas (WQMAs)
(ICR p.3).This did not appear to affect the overall cost of the project.

The project had seven components:

1. Partnership strengthening (appraisal US$1.00 million, actual US$1.00 million)
The component aimed to: (a) strengthen partnerships among the Recipient’s agencies responsible for water
pollution control to improve coordination and effectiveness, through carrying out studies of successful pollution
control and wastewater management partnership models worldwide, and identifying and carrying out measures
for improving existing administrative, institutional, and regulatory practices; (b) establish an integrated
partnership information center in the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) to consolidate
existing data concerning the wastewater sector which would then be disseminated to stakeholders in said sector;
(c) integrate water quality monitoring systems of the Recipient’s agencies responsible for water pollution control;
and (d) expand the public assessment of water services to include sewerage and sanitation services.

2. Planning and Policy Development (appraisal US$ 0.50 million, actual US$ 0.47million)
This component aimed to: (a) update the sewerage and sanitation master plans and applicable standards for
MWSS’ jurisdiction areas to be used in the rate basing 2013; (b) refine policies and procedures including
guidelines for regulating the providers of septic tank desludging; and (c) develop procedures and standards for
   implementing the Recipient’s Clean Water Act and the Sanitation Code.

   3. Innovative financing (appraisal US$0.50 million, actual US$0.50 million)
   This component assisted the government in developing and testing innovative financing arrangements for the
   sewerage and sanitation sector to attract private sector investment in the sewerage and sanitation sector,
   including provision for technical assistance.

   4. Use of market-based incentives (appraisal US$0.10 million, actual US$0.10 million)
   This component would assist the LLDA in improving its environmental user fee systems and implementing
   market-based incentives in such systems through provision of technical assistance.

   5. Rate rebasing (appraisal US$0.60 million, actual US$0.60 million)
   The component provided technical assistance and training to Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
   and the Recipient’s relevant government agencies for the preparation and negotiations of 2007/08 rate rebasing
   in the water and wastewater sector.

   6. Joint sewage and septage treatment plant (appraisal US$4.65 million, actual US$4.65 million)
   This component supported the construction of a joint septage and sewage treatment plant, including the first year
   trial operation of the combined plant. This pilot would upgrade a selected sewage treatment plant in Quezon City

   7. Project management (appraisal US$1.00 million, actual US$1.00 million)
   This component provided technical assistance and operating support to assist the Department of Environment
   and Natural Resources (DENR) in implementing, coordinating, monitoring, evaluating, and supervising the
   project and disseminating the project’s results and outcomes.

   (Project document, pp 6-7)

   Revised Components:
   Component 1 – An activity was added to establish Water Quality Management Areas (WQMAs)
   (ICR p.3).This did not appear to affect the overall cost of the project.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Costs: The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$ 5.00 million and the total disbursed
   amount was US$ 4.97 million (99% of the appraisal cost). The ICR treated disbursements from the GEF Grant as
   equivalent to the cost of the project (see below with regard to the Recipient’s contribution). The difference
   between the appraised and actual costs was due to the inability of the International Consultant to submit a,
   complete report of the Sanitation and Sewerage Master Plan, thus DENR only released 80% of the full amount
   that was allocated for as the cost of the consultancy service.

   Financing: The project was financed by the Strategic Fund for Pollution Reduction in the Large Marine
   Ecosystems of East Asia, under the GEF’s Containment-Based Operational Program No. 10 through a Bank
   executed trust fund (TF57296). (ICR p. 2)

   Recipient’s Contribution : Through DENR and MWSS, the recipient provided in-kind support for PMO expenses
   such as staff salaries, logistics, meetings, and field work. Towards the end of the project, the government
   covered conversion losses from the drop of the PHP against the USD. Maynilad Water Services Inc., (MWSI),
   the water and wastewater concessionaire for the west zone of Metropolitan Manila, provided co-financing of US$
   3.35 million.
   Dates: The project was extended by 18 months on November 27, 2012 from an original closing date of
   November 30, 2012 to May 31, 2014 to ensure that the joint septage and sewage treatment plan became
   operational. (ICR p. 3)


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   High
   The objectives are relevant to the Country Partnership Strategy, FY2015-18, which takes a mulit-sectoral
   approach with the water sector (water resources, water supply, and sanitation) cutting across Engagement Area
   2, Empower the poor and vulnerable and 4, Climate Change, Environment, and Disaster risk. Water sector
   support is explicitly positioned to help achieve improved health, natural resource and disaster risk management
   outcomes. Metro Manila remains a priority area for Bank support due to the high number of poor residents.

   The Country Assistance Strategy 2006-08, in place at appraisal, included strengthening metropolitan waterworks
   and sewerage systems and outlined priorities including restructuring tariff structures, enforcement of
   anti-pollution measures, and water and sewerage infrastructure investments.

   At appraisal, up to 75% of the pollution in Metro Manila’s waterways was caused by domestic sewage, with the
   rest originating from industry. Less than 15% of residents were connected to a sewerage system, and most of
   the wastewater from sewerage and septage was discharged without treatment.

   The Government took policy steps to address the problems including enacting the Clean Water Act 2004
   (CWA-2004) which aimed to protect the country’s water bodies from land-based pollution and provided for a
   strategy to prevent and minimize pollution through a multi-sectoral approach.

   The project was positioned to provide technical assistance to the Bank’s Manila Third Sewerage Project
   (P079661) supported by an IBRD loan of US$ 64 million.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest
   The project’s statement of objectives was clear and measurable.
   In general the causal chain between the project’s planned activities and the objectives was logical. Components
   1 and 2 sought to improve the effectiveness of partnerships of organizations with mandates and responsibilities
   for water pollution control, sanitation and sewerage. Components 3, 4, and 5 sought to improve private sector
   participation in sewerage and sanitation. Component 6 assisted MWSS in piloting suitable technology for
   septage disposal through joint sewage and septage treatment. Nonetheless, the link between project outputs and
   some intended sector outcomes was weak.

   There were a number of other shortcomings. The project focused on building prioritization of wastewater in
   DENR from within the organization, but did not determine whether the political was sufficient for policy level
   leadership. Other issues included a lack of sufficient management support corresponding to the complex design.
   Moreover, design did not take into account the low priority of sanitation and sewerage among some participating
   entities or the work that would be required to manage conflicts in the interest of the partners.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   1. Identifying essential adjustments to administrative , institutional, and regulatory practices and existing
   legislation in order to attract private investments in the Recipient’s wastewater sector . Modest.

   Outputs:
    A public Assessment of Sewerage and Sanitation (PASS) was developed to collect data on
   customer-perceived performance of the quality of service of Manila Water Supply and Sewerage
   concessionaires, which was piloted through a survey of 1000 households (Target achieved);
    Metro Manila Septage and Sewerage Management Plan (referred to as the sanitation and sewerage Master
   Plan) was updated with new criteria and projections to reach 100% coverage by 2037 (Still in draft and not
   finalized as planned – estimated at 80% complete);
    Policy areas to support the private sector were identified by the project and stakeholders that concerned
   making septage management compulsory and increasing minimum standards for industrial pre-treatment. Seven
   polices were then drafted (original plan/target not identified);
    The project supported the development of three private sector sanitation investment proposals with Quezon
   City LGU, Los Baños Water District, and San Jose Water District and submitted these to several financial
   institution for consideration (Target exceeded – three developed, two planned);
    The project sought to use market based incentives by carrying out studies on options to enhance the existing
   framework for Environmental User Fees (EUFs) to manage industrial effluent into Laguna Bay, assess and
   provide a roadmap for harmonizing roles of the Laguna Lake Development Authority (LLDA) and the Department
   of Environmental and Natural Resources (DENR). (Target not met – Policy recommendation drafted. 1 of 3 target
   parameters covered by EUF);
    The project supported the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) and Maynilad Water
     Services, Inc, (MWSI) to complete rate rebasing in which the tariffs were restructured to remove sewer
     connection costs and sewerage fees and replace them with an increased environmental fee mandatory for all
     households (Target met in terms of rate rebasing carried out);
      Four policy issuances (administrative orders on sanitation related matters issued by national authorities
     (50% of target of eight).
     (ICR pp 10-12, and Annex 2 pp 21-22)
     Outcomes:
      During the life of the project, there was an increase in the coverage of Environmental User Fees from 1000 to
     2992 (target of 2400 exceeded and a reduction of Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) discharged from
     regulated sources from 5202 to 4104 (target of 4682 exceeded). However, the extent to which these results can
     be attributed to the project has not been established as the M&E system could not control for other factors that
     may have influenced outcomes;
      The increase in sewerage service in the concession area as a result of rate rebasing was 12% of water
     connections (40% of target increase) and coverage of sanitation service in the same area was 47% of water
     connections (66% of target increase). Again, the extent to which these results can be attributed to the project has
     not been established as the M&E system could not control for other factors may have contributed to the
     outcomes;
      The piloted PASS survey on customer perceptions was not scaled up, reportedly due to a lack of funding
     (ICR, pages 11-12);
      Two of the three private sector sanitation investments proposals are progressing with Quezon City Local
     Government Unit (LGU) engaged in site selection and Los Baños Water District awaiting the new LGU ordinance.
     The San Jose Water District proposal was dropped.
     (ICR Data sheet, section F, and p. 11)

2. Increasing the effectiveness of the agencies responsible for water pollution control through improved
coordination. Modest.

Outputs:
  Memoranda of Understanding were developed among seven agencies responsible for water pollution control;
    (target achieved);
  19 bi-Annual Partnership Meetings were conducted, exceeding the target of 12;
  The San Juan Water Quality Monitoring Area was designated and two others have been identified and baselines
    developed;
  Integrated water quality management guidelines developed, supported by training and demonstration kits;
  A Partnership Information Center online database and IT platform was created and launched with related training
    carried out for local government units. (ICR pp 13-15, and Annex 2 pp 21-22)

Outcomes:

    The project team reports that San Juan Water Quality Management Area is improving the coordination and
     cooperation of the regulators such as the national and local government agencies, and the service providers and
     locators such as the water and wastewater concessionaires and the private companies in the sub-catchment
     area.

    The project also saw the establishment of two additional WQMAs the Laguna Lake Basin WQMA and the
     Mariloa-Meycauyan-Obando River System WQMA. This was replicated in other watersheds and to date DENR
     has designated a total of 14 WQMAs nationwide with more to be declared.
3. Promoting innovative , simple and effective wastewater treatment techniques . High.

     Outputs:
      A joint sewage and septage treatment plant (JSSTP) technology selection study was completed;
      The JSSTP was constructed and commissioned with a capacity of 2400 m3 of sewerage per day and 240 m3
     of septage per day;
      The JSSTP operations and maintenance manual and commissioning report were produced.
     (ICR pp 13, and Annex 2 pp 21-22)

     Outcomes:
                                                  3
      The project saw a 20% cost reduction per m of septage collection, treatment using joint treatment as
     compared to separate septage treatment (100% of the targeted 20% reduction) (ICR Data sheet, section F, and
    p. 11);
     “The JSSTP combines and treats sewage from the piped network and sludge collected by truck from septic
    tanks. It therefore gives greater flexibility in areas where both systems are in use and offers cost savings over
    separate treatment of sewage and septage. The JSSTP is only the second of its type in the Philippines and the
    first to use a Sequencing Batch Reactor, thereby having a much smaller footprint” (ICR, p. 13).

    Global Environmental Objectives

        Increased coverage of sewerage services in MWSS jurisdiction from 12% of the population to -20% of the
    population (not achieved, share remained at 12% at closure).
     Increased coverage of sanitation service in MWSS jurisdiction) from 24% of the population to 57% (38%,
    partially achieved). Attribution of this result to the project is unclear).
    Reduction of pollution reaching Manila Bay (1,000 metric tons of BOD/year) from a baseline of zero to a reduction
    of 9 (reduction of 2, partially achieved. This is 22% of the target. Attribution to the project is unclear.



5. Efficiency:

    Modest

    An ex post economic analysis was carried out for the Joint Sewage and Septage Treatment Plant (JSSTP), which
    constituted 56% of the total project cost. The economic rate of return for the JSSTP was estimated at 15%.
    Benefits comprised of environmental, health, water re use, and savings from non-payment of discharge feeds to
    the Laguna Lake Development Authority. No quantified analysis was carried out for the other components.

    The project was intended to catalyze higher sector investment levels through the scaling up of technology within
    the mechanism of rate rebasing exercises every five years. During appraisal an incremental cost analysis
    predicted that the GEF grant would catalyze additional investment from 2005-2025 though replication of
    technology demonstrated under the project and pollution control from private investors. From 2007-2014 the
    concessionaires increased investment, though the amount was not reported and specific attribution to the GEF
    project was not established as these investments were not specifically linked to the replication of the JSSTP
    technologies or the implementation of the financial instruments developed by the project

    The project experienced operational and administrative inefficiencies. The project closing date was extended by
    18 months in order to allow the sewerage and septate treatment plant to become operational and as a result of
    implementation delays related to procurement, high staff turnover, and coordination among implementing
    agencies. Despite the extended implementation time, the project did not fully achieve its objectives with only 8 of
    15 intermediate outcome indicators met.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       No

    ICR estimate                    Yes                                      15%                                     56%
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    The project outcome rating is moderately unsatisfactory taking into account the high relevance of objectives,
    modest relevance of design, modest achievement of two of the three project objectives, high achievement of the
    third objective, and modest efficiency

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The ICR focused on two relevant risks to development outcomes. First, there is uncertainty regarding the time
   that may be required to have four of the remaining eight polices endorsed. Second, the updated Septage and
   Sewerage Management Plan has not been finalized, but meetings to do so with the support of MWSS are taking
   place.

   In addition, it remains unclear whether the low priority of sanitation and sewerage within agencies and the need
   for high level leadership will be adequately addressed. This could affect the sustainability of the achieved
   outcomes as well as the progress in obtaining private sector investment and in operationalizing the MOUs and
   guidelines developed during the project


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   During project preparation, the Bank supported extensive consultation with partner agencies, ensured that all
   safeguards and procedures were complied with (see section 11), and that the project was designed to provide
   technical assistance to the Manila Third Sewerage Project (P079661). However there were a number of
   significant shortcomings. Insufficient attention was paid to the complexities of outdated policies, overlapping
   agency mandates and lack of willingness to prioritize sanitation and sewerage. And while wide consultation
   contributed to consensus around the design, it also led to an increasingly complex project and an ambitious
   results framework from which it became difficult to attribute higher level outcomes to the outputs financed
   (see section 11). These issues were not mitigated by a robust Project Management Office (PMO) or a
   corresponding assessment of the ability of the government agencies to partner and deliver effectively.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   Implementing agencies noted that the Bank was supportive and provided clear recommendations on how to
   improve performance when needed (ICR page 17). The Bank also took an active role in supporting
   coordination and communication among the implementing agencies. The Financial Management and
   Procurement teams provided training and follow up support (see section 11).However, significant delays in
   progress were not adequately addressed, in part because the supervision reports tended to overstate ratings
   without fully acknowledging the impact of delays on project performance. In addition, the project restructuring
   did not fully address the problems identified prior to the mid-term review regarding the need to adjust the GEO
   indicators and/or revise the implementation arrangements to achieve them. The project did not address the
   disconnect between the GEO indicators and the GEF project objectives and indicators, and means for
   measuring their attainment (see section 10). These challenges were exacerbated by high staff turnover with
   four task team leaders in place over the life of the project.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government ensured that counterpart funds were provided in a timely fashion. This included financing the
   Project Management Office during the last months of the project in order to ensure that the project was closed
   successfully. However despite problems emerging among involved agencies, there were limited high-level
   interventions to resolve implementation issues and improve coordination including closer follow up with local
   governments on implementation delays.
   According to the ICR, overall management of fund flows was challenging, partly due to the separation of
   administrative oversight (FASPO) and technical management (EMB). Over the last two years of
   implementation the fluctuation of exchange rates adversely impacted the project (at appraisal the exchange
   rate was 51PhP/US$, which reduced to 43PhP/US$ at the time of the ICR). The project ran short of funding
   by about US$451,322 due to continuous depreciation of the US dollar against the Philippine peso. The
   government responded by financing or incorporating activities into Agencies’ future work plans beyond the life
   of the project.


  Government Performance Rating                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The lead implementing agency was the DENR’s Environmental Management Bureau (EMB). Other agencies
   included the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System, the Pasig River Rehabilitation Commission and
   the Laguna Lake Development Authority. The associate partners were the National Economic Development
   Authority, Department of Health, Local Governments, Department of Finance, and Metro Manila Development
   Agency.

   The DENR and the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage were effective in working together on the
   construction of the JSSTP. However there were shortcomings in contract management, including issuing
   time- based, rather than output based contacts which were not extended when needed which resulted in
   incomplete work. Other shortcomings included high turnover within the PMO. The project managers
   changed frequently, presumably to longer term positions across the organization. The technical staff in the
   PMO was part time and focused on multiple assignments. This resulted in a loss of institutional memory, and
   delays.

  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                     Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The project designed a results framework which enabled the tracking of output and intermediate outcome
   indicators related to the project objectives against baselines established during appraisal. However, the design
   did not enable a determination of the extent to which results can be attributed to the project since the system
   could not control for other factors that may have influenced outcomes. The link between project outputs and
   some intended sector outcomes was also weak.

   The GEO indicators were chosen to reflect the links with other IBRD financed investment projects and to keep all
   actors focused on the long term aim of the partnerships. The GEO indicators were, however, related to activities
   beyond the scope of the project and the M&E system did not explicitly attempt show the project’s contribution
   toward them.

    The PMO had primary responsibility to collect data regularly from participating agencies on implementation
   progress and on evaluating project results against objectives. These were to be communicated through
   semi-annual progress reports including sanitation and sewerage coverage and reduction of pollution attributable
   to the project. The DENR had responsibility for reviewing results and taking actions when and where necessary.
   The Bank’s role was to monitor progress through semiannual progress reports, quarterly financial monitoring, and
   regular missions.


b. M&E Implementation:

   The PMO collected data and reported on project intermediate outcomes. The MWSS provided regular updates on
   the sewerage and sanitation coverage and The Laguna Lake Development Authority on the pollution rates.
   However the capacity to attribute these results to the intervention, as envisioned during preparation, was not
   developed.

c. M&E Utilization:

   Project reports on outputs were used to assess progress and areas for improvement, though these were not
   always acted upon, particularly in terms of implementing findings of the mid-term review and adequately following
   up with local entities where there were implementation delays.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as Category B for purposes of Environmental Assessment, due to the construction of
   the JSSTP. No safeguard polices other than OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) were triggered.
   According to the ICR (p. 8), the JSSTP site footprint was unchanged from the facility it replaced and the project
   overall had positive environment consequences, since the quality of the treated effluent from this facility now
   meets the required standards.

   The ICR states that the environmental impact of the civil works for the JSSTP was analyzed using the Philippines
   environmental assessment process (largely compatible with OP 4.01). The MWSI submitted an Environmental
   Management Plan (EMP) to DENR, and the World Bank, in 2006, and was granted a Certificate of Non Coverage
   (CNC No. 0610-16-011). The scope of the environmental monitoring program carried out by MWSI was
   reportedly comprehensive. Overall, the ICR reports that the project showed good compliance; third party
   monitoring of environmental parameters was carried out during different phases of construction and provided the
   basis for mitigation actions; all documentation was in place; good industry health and safety practices were
   utilized; and there were zero lost man hours during construction. An environmental report was prepared as part
   of the construction completion report which cited the compliance requirements that were accomplished during the
   construction, commissioning and operation phases of the project (ICR pp.7-8)

    According to the ICR, there were no land acquisition issues and no increase in disturbance due to desludging
   trucks. The plant is located on property owned by the Quezon City government and its continuing use was
   secured through an agreement between the Quezon City government and MWSS. The support of the
   neighborhood was achieved, through collaboration with Barangay leaders, regular community awareness and
   education programs, hiring local people as laborers and effective traffic management.

   Social and environmental safeguard supervision missions were carried out as part of the project implementation
   support missions. There were no significant findings recorded (ICR p. 8)

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   The ICR found that procurement improved over the implementation period following a number of delays during
   the early phases of the project. Challenges included:
    Re-advertising several contracts due to difficulty in finding staff with adequate experience and qualifications.
    Difficulty in finalizing some assignments due to contracts being structured as time-based rather than
   output-based. These included consultancies supporting the rate re-basing and seven policies, which concluded
   without final outputs and had to be finalized by the client under counterpart funding.
    For the SSMP contract, the consultant firm changed individual consultants without completing the required
   assessment to ensure they met or exceeded the specified qualifications
    During construction of the JSSTP, the lengthy process of obtaining approvals delayed payments to the
   contractor.
   The ICR rated financial management performance as moderately satisfactory overall and FM risk as moderate to
   substantial throughout the life of the project. The project complied with the financial covenants which included the
   submission of the quarterly Interim Financial Reports (IFR). The IFRs were acceptable to the Bank and there
   were no issues arising from their review. Only one IFR was received on time and at least half of the IFRs were
   more than 30 days late.
     Annual audited project financial statements were submitted, with delays, and the opinions of the auditor were
    “acceptable to the Bank.” Out of the six audit reports submitted, three had qualified opinions. Reasons for
    qualifications included failure to conduct physical inventory-taking, unreliable cash balance resulting from the
    unreconciled difference between the general ledger and subsidiary ledger, overstatement of consultancy services
    and bank charges, and understatement of cash in bank due to a double recording of payment to a consultant,
    and erroneous recording of taxes withheld on payment to a consultant. The ICR (p. 9) states that the issues had
    been resolved by closure.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately
                                Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
        Borrower Performance : Moderately                   Moderately
                                Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The following lessons are derived from the ICR:

        Clearer identification and prioritization of activities that could be feasibly implemented given project
    management capabilities, or putting in place the necessary management and institutional arrangements to
    support them, could reduce delays, assist with coordination, and minimize shortfalls in meeting objectives
     Starting the procurement process as early as possible can help to avoid significant delays during
    implementation.
     Basing the results framework on available data sources from existing monitoring systems, rather than on
    assumed improvements to be developed during the lifetime of the project would have led to stronger M&E
    implementation.
     Developing GEO indicators within the scope and timeframe of the project, would have enabled a clearer
    measurement of the project’s results
     Identifying and assessing champions, mandates, functions and processes within national and local
    agencies could have improved interagency partnerships and coordination.
    Expanding the pollutants covered under the Environmental User Fee (through LISCOP) and the awareness
    raising (through GEF MTSP) appears to have led to a reduction of pollution.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:



    The ICR is well-written and candid about challenges and shortcomings. In particular the ICR acknowledges that
    many of the outputs had been met, but that these could not necessarily be said to have contributed towards
    sector outcomes. The narrative was unclear in places when describing project costs. It also occasionally made
    concluding statements without sufficient illustration such as when describing the project as, “overly ambitious”
    and that it should have been, “as simple as possible,” without offering comparators or examples of what the
    optimal level of engagement would have been. In addition the M&E section lacked detail on the implementation
    and usage of the project’s monitoring systems against the plans described in the project document. The section
    on risks contained a description of how previous risks had been addressed by the project, but did not provide
    much detail on the current risks to the project’s outcomes despite indicating that these were significant.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
