Document of
- > S ' ; The Wo¢ld Ban
FOR OFFICiAL USE ONLY
Reput No.
I~~~~~~~
STAFF APPRaISAL REtPORT
REPULIC OF GHANA
S5(qOND TRANSPORT REHAILITATION PROJECT
NDOVEMER 5, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division'
Westerni Africea Department
Africa Region
Ill d       haen  u a restwictd  .34xdm  m any be .usd by rdf  d  nO   l~ o
thei offida duo"s Uts costmuts may adt othewise be discosed wMWosid D   ankaowb



QC  E v^ALns
Currency Unit    a    Codis 
IS.0      .a    Cdis 840
1.0 Cedi   a    USS.0029
UEIGTS *WARS
1 motor (m)   a    8. 28   feet (ft)
1 hctare (he)   =    2.47   acree
1 kilometer (km)   a    0.e2   mil, (ml)
1 metric ton (t)   a    2.205  pounds (lb)
SRE IONS *W lACRAS
ADF     - African Development Fund               UMU       - Motor Traffic Unit
ATTC    - Accra Technical Training Center         NFRRMP   - National Feeder Roads Rehabili-
BADEA   - Bnnque arabe pour Is developpemont                 tatlon and Vaintenanco Program
economique on Afriquo                  NIO       - Netherlands Investment
BIRD    - The Bureau of Integrated Rural                     Organization
Devolopment                            NPC       - National Planning Commission
Bmu     - Bridg  Maintenance Unit                 NRSC     - National Road Safety Comsesion
BOG     - Bank of Ghana                           NVTI       National Vocational Instituto
BRRJ    - Bul ding and Road Research Institut    ODA       - Overseac DOvelopment Agency
BSL     - Black Star Line                                    (U.K.)
CCCE    - Caise Central* de Cooperation           OECF     - Overseos Economic Cooperation
Economique (France)                                Fund, Japan
CES     - City Express Services                   OSA      - Omnibus Service Authority
CIDA    - Canadian International Development      PEP        Public Enterprise Project
Agency                                 PID       - Planning Implementation
COCOBOD - Ghana Cocoa Board                                  Division
CTC     - Central Training Center                 PIP      - Public Investment Program
DFR     - Department of Feeder Roads              PMU      - Project Management Unit
DUR     - Depertment of Urban Roads               PNDC     - Provisional National Defense
EEC     - European Economic Comnunity                        Council
EMS     - Equipment Management System             RRMP     - Road Rehabilitation and
ERP     - Economic Recovery Program                          Maintenance Project
GCAA    - Ghana Civil Aviation Authority          RTPU     - Road Training and Production Unit
OH      - Ghana Airways                           SAC      - Structural Adjustment Credit
OHA     - Ghana Highway Authority                 SFV      - Small Farm Vehicles
coG     - Government of Ghana                     SGS      - Societe Generale de Surveillance
OPHA    - Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority      SOE      - Statement of Expenditure
GRATIS  - Ghana Regional Appropriate              SSB      - Social Security Bank
Technology Industrial Service          STC       - State Transport Corporation
GRC     - Ghana RaTlways Corporation              TCC      - Technology Consultancy Center
HDW     - Highway Design & Maintenance Model    TDWM       - 31 December Women's Movement
ICa     - International Competitive Bidding       TPRC     - Transport Policy Review Committee
ILO     - International Labour Organization       TRP-1    - First Transport Rehabilitation
IW     - Intermediate Means of Transport                    Project
KIA     - Kotaka International Airport            TRP-2    - Second Transport Rehabilitation
KTI     - Kumasi Training Institute                          Project
LCB     - Local Competitive Bidding               TSC      - Transport Study Center
MDPI    - Managemnt Development and               TSDC     - Tema Shipyard and Drydock
Productivity                                       Corporation
MFEP    - Ministry of Finance and Economic        UNDP     - United Nations Development
Planning                                           Prograe
MmS     - Maintenance Monitoring System           UST      - University of Science 
MMU     - Mobile Maintenance Unit                            Technology, Kumasi
MOE     - Ministry of Education                   VEL      - Vehicle Examination and
URH     - Ministry of Roads and Highways                     Licencing Division
MTADP   - Medium Term Agricultural                VLTS     - Volta Lake Transport System
Development Program                    VOC       - Vehicle Operating Cost
MTC     - Ministry of Transport and               WFP      - World Food Programme
Communications
FISL WR
January 91   -   December 81



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ....................................   i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ........................................         1
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR.                                           1
A. The Transport System.                                      1
B. Roads.                                                     3
C. Road Transport.                                            8
D. Railways .10
E.   Sector Planning and Public Investment Program           12
P. Transport Sector Issues .13
G.   Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector          14
III. THE PROJECT .15
A. Project Objectives .15
-        B. Project Description .16
C.   Project Cost and Financing ........                     23
D. Implementation .25
E. Procurement .28
F. Disbursements .30
G. Accounting and Auditing .32
H. Reporting and Monitoring .33
I. Environmental Impacts .33
IV. FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF GRC .33
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........................                 37
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .39
The Project, as well as this report, was prepared on the basis of an
appraisal mission in April 1990 by Messrs. T. Pankaj (Mission Leader),
L. Pereira (Sr. Financial Analyst), A. Nickesen (Transport Specialist),
S. Demissie (Highway Engineer), R. Le Bussy (Railway Engineer), S. Berkman
(Training Specialist), and Mrs. A. Artaza (Operations Assistant).
Mr. G. Billington (Consultant) participated in the pre-appraisal work of
the mission while Mr. B.P. Rao (Consultant) took part in the mission's
appraisal. Editing was done by Mr. H. Young (Consultant). Mr. R. James
(Consultant) provided computing assistance.   Secretarial work was done by
Mrs. U. Raymond, Ms. J. Hesler, Mrs. M. Fisher and5Mrs. M-V. Montes.
This document has a restricted distribiition and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
2-1  Transport Sector. Organization Chart
2-2  Ministry of Roads and Highways, Organization Chart
2-3  Ministry of Transport and Communications, Organization Chart
2-4  Ports, Shipping, Lake Tiansport and Civil Aviation Sub-sectors
2-5  Road Network Statistics
2-6  Status of Ongoing RRMP and TRP-1
2-7  Ten Year Trunk Road Stabilization Program
2-8  Annual Road Budget, 1990, Summary of 1990 Budget for Periodic
Maintenance, and Annual Funding Needs for Periodic and Routine
Maintenance, 1991-1993
2-9  Road Transport Vehicle Population 1979-1989
2-10 Fuel Consumption Data 1970-1989
2-11 GRC: An Overview of Present Situation
2-12 GRC: Past Traffic Trends and Projections
2-13 Transport Parastatals: Reforms Underway
3-1  Trunk Road Stabilization Program
3-2  Bridge Rehabilitation Program
3-3  Rehabilitation of Major Trunk Roads
3-4  MRH Workforce Development and Training Component
3-5  GHA Equipment Status and Requirements
3-6  Railway Rehabilitation Program
3-7  Institutional Support to MTC
3-8  Training Program for MTC
3-9  Road Safety Program
3-10 Northern Region Pilot Scheme
3-11 Project Cost Estimates
3-12 Project Financing Plan
3-13 Amounts and Methods of Procurement
3-14 Disbursement Schedule
3-15 Environmental Impact Analysis
4.   Financial Evaluation of Railway Component
5.   Economic Analysis
6.   Documents in the Project File
Maps:
IBRD 22091     Rehabilitation of Trunk Roads under TRP-1 (on-going)
IBRD 22090     Rehabilitation of Trunk Roads under TRP-2 (candidate roads)
IBRD 22089     Rehabilitation of Bridges/Northern Region Pilot Scheme
IBRD 22088     Railway Rehabilitation



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                 The Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:            Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH), Ghana
Highway Authority (GHA), Department of Feeder
Roads (DFR), Ministry of Transport and
Commnnications (MTC), Ghana Railway Corporation
(GRC), Amasachina and 31st December Women's
Movement (two NGOs).
Credit Amount:            SDR 69.0 million (US$96.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                    Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Relending Terms:          SDR 10.1 million (US$14.0 million equivalent)
would be onlent by the Ghana Government to GRC at
8Z interest over 20 years including 7 years of
grace; foreign exchange risk to be borne by GRC.
Proiect DescriPtions      The aim of the project is to continue to remove
physical constraints in transport infrastructure,
reduce transport costs for goods and passengers,
and support exports, farm production, and the
mobility of people. It will also help alleviate
rural poverty in one of the poorest areas of
Ghana. The project includes the following four
main components: (a) road rehabilitation which
includes a three-year (1991-1993) time slice of
the trunk road stabilization program; (b) railway
rehabilitation; (c) support to transport sector
agencies; and (d) a Northern Region Pilot Scheme
comprising labor-intensive rehabilitation/
construction of rural infrastructure with
emphasis on employment of women and involvement
of local NGOs.
Proiect Benefits          The main project benefit is a more efficient and
and Risks                 cost effective transport system that will
stimulate a higher level of economic activity in
the country and higher employment. There are no
significant risks associated with implementation
of the physical components of the project,
although implementation will depend heavily on
assuring an adequate level and flow of local
funds from the Government, and avoiding delays in
Government's procurement decisions for major
contracts.



- ii. -
Estimated Proiect Costs 1/                        Local    Foreign    Total
…_____-US$ Millions-----
A.   Road and Bridge Components (GHA)             27.5       79.8      107.3
B.   Institutional Support to MRH                  1.1        2.5        3.6
C.   Railway Rehabilitation (GRC)                  6.3       56.9       63.2
D.   Support to Transport Sector (MTC)             0.9        2.0        2.9
E.   Northern Region Pilot Scheme (DFR)            1.6        0.6        2.2
Total Project Base Cost                           37.4      141.8     179.2
Physical Contingencies                           3.0       10.0      13.0
Price Contingencies                              6.9       13.4      20.3
Total Project Cost                                47.3      165.2     212.5
Taxes                                           15.1         -       15.1
Total Project Cost (Including Taxes)              62.4      165.2     227.6
Interest during Construction for
Railway Component                                 2.8       _          2.8
Total Financing                                   65.2      165.2     230.4
Financing Plan
Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ Millions-----
IDA                                                9.5        86.5     96.0
Government of Ghana (Road Fund and Budget)        55.7        12.7      68.4
Cofinancing                                         0.0       66.0      66.0
Total (Rounded)                              65.2       165.2    230.4
Estimated IDA disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
----------------US$ millions----------------
Annual                          2.9     11.5    15.4    26.8    26.9    12.5
Cumulative                      2.9     14.4    29.8    56.6    83.5    96.0
Economic Rates of Return:       Overall ERR, based on quantifiable benefits
covering 94? of total project costs is 38Z.
Maps:                           IBRD 22088, 22089, 22090, and 22091
1/Totals may not add due to rounding.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Ghana's transport infrastructure faced virtual collapse during
the early 1980s due to prolonged past neglect of maintenance and
rehabilitation. This resulted in high transport costs and serious
bottlenecks in the transport system. When Ghana launched its Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983, with a series of sweeping economic reforms,
it was clearly recognized that removing trantsport bottlenecks and improving
transport efficiency were crucial to obtaining an adequate supply response
from the ERP process. Thus, under the ERP, Ghana undertook, with
considerable support from IDA and other donors, a program of emergency
repairs and phased rehabilitation of its transport sector, and initiated
generally sound and pragmatic institutional reforms. These measures have
produced encouraging results and have helped avert further deterioration of
the system. While considerable progress has been made, there is still much
more to be done to restore the transport system.
1.02      The restoration of adequate transport capacity, particularly for
the road system, and the rebuilding of efficient sector institutions, will
take about a decade or more of concerted efforts to complete. The
Government of Ghana (GOG) has sought IDA's support in designing and
implementing these efforts. The First Transport Rehabilitation Project
(TRP-1), which started in 1988 and is making good progress, marked the
beginning of a phased program for sector-wide rehabilitation and
strengthening. The proposed Second Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP-
2) is the next phase of this program, hopefully to be followed by two more
to complete the program by about 1997. These projects constitute a well-
conceived program for phased rehabilitation of the transport sector.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
2.01      Basic information on Ghana's transport system was given in SAR-
6921-GH for TRP-1, presented to the Board on May 27, 1988. This chapter
updates the status of the transport system.
2.02      Ghana had a reasonably well-developed transport system in the
1960s. However, starting in the early 70s, it suffered a long period of
neglect from which it is now beginning to recover. The system is spread
over an area of 239,000 km2 and serves a widely scattered population of
over 12 million.



-2-
2.03      The main elements of Ghana"s transport system are: (a) a network
of about 14,400 km of trunk and urban arterial roads, and about 21,000 km
of feeder roads; (b) an over-aged road vehicle fleet of about 126,000
vehicles; (c) a 950-km railway system linking three main cities, Accra,
Kumasi and Takoradi and two main ports; (d) two major deep-water ports at
Tema and Takoradi and three small fishing ports; (e) a small inland water
transport system on the Volta Lake; (f) a national maritime shipping
company; and (g) an international airport at Accra and three main domestic
airports, as well as a national airline providing international, regional
and domestic air transport services. -
2.04      Sector Organization: About 90Z of road transport, which is the
dominant mode in the transport system, is operated by the private sector,
with free entry to the market and with effectively no government regulation
of its operations. The public sector dominates ports, lake transport,
railways and domestic civil aviation. Though state intervention was a
major feature of policy in the past, the Government has clearly announced
itself in favor of encouraging the private sector, reorganizing public
sector organizations on more efficient lines, and privatizing many of them.
Government's investment policy statements of 1988 and the IDA-supported
project for reforming state enterprises (paragraph 2.40) are helping to
strengthen private sector operations and to streamline public enterprises
in the transport sector.
2.05      Administration of the transport sector is the main
responsibility of two Ministries: (a) the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC) which is responsible for the formulation and
monitoring of policies and programs of public and private sector
organizations and for overseeing the work of the public sector agencies in
ports, shipping, railways, air and lake transport; and (b) the Ministry of
Roads and Highways (MRH) which deals with the planning, construction and
maintenance of highways, urban roads and feeder roads through the Ghana
Highway Authority (GHA), Department of Urban Roads (DUR) and Department of
Feeder Roads (DFR), respectively. The Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MFEP) deals with the allocation of investment resources to the
transport sector, as part of its public investment planning and budgetary
functions.  While there is a shortage of skilled personnel at senior and
middle levels in all agencies, which is partly supplemented by consultants,
the sector ministries and key agencies operate with reasonable efficiency.
Recent measures to strengthen transport planning and implementation
institutions under various projects have produced generally good results.
Annexes 2-1, 2-2, 2-3 show organization charts of the transport sector, MRH
and MTC respectively.
2.06      Government's transport strategy emphasizes maintenance and
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure under a phased program, with
minimal amount of new construction, and measures for strengthening of
institutions in each sub-sector. An overview of progress in the
rehabilitation program in various sub-sectors shows encouraging results.
Under ongoing projects and investments, rehabilitation of port facilities
is nearing completion and port agencies have been reorganized so as to
provide adequate port capacity by the end of 1991. Railway capacitX has



-3-
been significantly restored through a Railway Rehabilitation Project
completed in 1988 and a follow-up component which is well underway as part
of TRP-1. However, the railway needs some further investments and
institutional support as proposed under TRP-2, to restore adequate capacity
and efficiency. To improve lake transport, which plays only a minor role
in the transport system, the Volta Lake Transport System (VLTS) has been
substantially rehabilitated with bilateral assistance from the Federal
Republic of Germany. Domestic airports and air transport need considerable
improvement in physical and institutional capacity, which the Government is
trying to achieve with bilateral assistance.  Road transport, in freight,
which is basically private sector-owned, has acquired reasonable capacity
to meet present needs, but needs to improve efficiency to reduce costs and
ta meet future needs. Public passenger transport which mostly consists of
bus transport, is dominated by the private sector. It is woefully
inadequate in capacity and quality, mainly because of the high cedi cost of
importing buses after the steep devaluation, and its improvement remains a
major task. By far the most important part of the transport system, which
is in relatively worse shape and needs the largest share of resources and
the longest period to regain capacity because of its size, is the road
network. Recent road projects are making ar. impact, but there is much more
to do in this sub-sector than in any other, to turn things around.
2.07      Further details on individual sub-sectors (roads, road transport
and railways) are presented below. Additional information on other sub-
sectors - ports, shipping, lake transport and civil aviation - is given in
Annex 2-4.
B. Roads
2.08      Overview: Road conditions, organization and rehabilitation
strategies are as described in the SAR (Report No. 6912-GH) for TRP-1,
except that road conditions are gradually improving, and road organization
and maintenance management are becoming more efficient. The rehabilitation
programs and strategies are taking hold and working well. The main
features of the present situation are summarized below.
2.09      Road conditions:  The length of the road network under various
categories and the surface condition of the trunk roads are shown in Annex
2-5. The poor condition of the road network continues as the central
issue. While recent road projects have made some improvements in areas,
less than half the road network still remains physically run down,
disrupting goods and passenger traffic, causing a nigh incidence of vehicle
breakdowns and high vehicle operating costs. Poor roads continue to be a
major constraint in all productive sectors of the economy. Ongoing
projects are designed to gradually improve the situation. On completion of
TRP-1 in 1991, the percentage of good roads in the trunk road network is
expected to increase to 39X (from 24Z in 1988); the proposed TRP-2 should
raise it to 46X at the end of 1993; and follow-up TRP-3 and TRP-4 projects
should increase it to 57Z by end 1995, and an acceptable 68Z level by 1997,
thus almost tripling the proportion of good roads over the 10-year period.
(See para 3.04.)



4 -
2.10       Tnstituric: - -  ' Thp MPH and its agencies, GHA, DUR and DFR, are
the main organizat{n.,s imple 19ot-.;ng road maintenance, rehabilitation and
construction.  Th.e MRF1R  asq tf. up .n 198?, as e separate ministry in charge
of roads, and has a nurleus of techrti.cal staff, reporting to the Secretary
of Roads and HEighv-a-ys.  GHFA was established in 1.974 as an autonomous body
with its onm BoarEa of? irectors appointed by the Government (recently
Veplaced tbr aai  Ne;-LatiageaieiTLt CoTIfitLtee). INRH exercises overall
supervision over Ci,'s perfotmance and budget.  By shifting more work from
force-account to contractors, GHA reduCed its staff from 8,400 in 1985 to
about 6,500 in 1969. GHA staff is spread over one central office in Accra,
10 regional officc.; and 32 atea offices. It has also a central workshop and
a number of smai; vegio'nral workshops for servicing equipment.  GHA has 68
engineers on lS- ;iFf, 5R engineeritug technicians as well as some 670
technical and su to(isltkg 'laff.  Thie largest contingent of staff is for
routine mainter.anrLee of the tru-nk road network. In line with IDA credit
covenants, GlI has reduc-d the shere> of work executed by its own direct
labor, and irc-)cs..;t- f0':- f-f cfr;tracrors.  For the trunk roads, the
share of conatLacL ;coI:S ., L% wa8S thout 25% for routine maintenance
(through single-man contr9ctors and otheL local contractors), 82Z for
periodic maintL-,a1ic.e sl d lOOZ for major rehabilitation and construction,
with the balarce be.ing done directly by GHA. While GHA has made good
progress in its performance, there is further scope for reducing the share
of routine m,nterFnce done threugh direct labor, and for reducing its non-
technical staff.  Djring ne.Oi.iations, kit       areed that GHA will present
to IDA, befor  Juune 30, 191. a plan for reducing its non-technical staff
through in se  conrract,`opg of routine maintenance and other means, with
annual targets ,cr rma1mpno.;,r tpduction oLp to 1994, and implement the same.
2.11      !)Pi &nd DLR were established in 1981 and 1983 respectively, and
both execui-e t      Ys;'  road wzorks primarily through contractors, with some
direct labor i-npnut nitarily in routine maintenance.  Even though the volume
of road work1- i,,pi"mpenred thrc.ogh DER increased by about 400Z over the last
five years, DFP reduced its work, force from 2,900 in 1984 to about 700 in
1989, by placing more reliance on contractors.  DFR staff includes 35
engineers, s'm:e se jther professimnal staff and 330 technical personnel.
It mairttains £;,,'1 isf.fices in all regions and road districts.  DUR has a
staff of -abou_:. ,   (i'cludineg 30 eng5neers), and has regionlal offices in
main citicis, slbeze e lt -erks in coordination with the city councils.
2.12       Tr.stitutional reforms:  Nlany institutional improvements were
effected through tha IDA-supported Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (R?PP) (1985-1991) whicb focussed mainly on institutions in the
road sector, including support to domestic contractors. These improvements
included: (fI) strona!thening MRH, GHA and DFR through technical assistance
in key arens  nc -hrough trainding; (ii) initroducing a staff incentive
scheme with suppcv:t of food-ald from the Wlorld Food Programme (WFP) to
supplement real nag'-: (iii) reducing the share of force-account works
carried out by o-rect departmental labor; (iv) setting up a Road Pund to
ensure regu_at- .    ,f funds to the sgencies and contractors; (v) starting
pilot pro e:ts `ai- _i4t-roducing labor-intensive road rehabilitation methods
based on a..a-opc        ' hnoJogy; qnd (vi) improving contractor capacity
through sub--loais LoŽ  n:  rr-rit enl ports, training, enforcement of



-5-
competitive bidding for all works, ensuring prompt and reasonahle payments
to contractors and automatic price-escalation mechanisms, etc. TRP-1
continued some of these initiatives and particularly provided opportunities
for local consultancy firms to expand their role in road design and
supervision. These measures have considerably enhanced the institutional
capacity of Government agencies, contractors and consultants in the road
sector. (See Annex 2-6 for a detailed description of RRMP and TRP--1).
2.13      In addition, the successful economic reforms implemented in the
country including foreign exchange liberalization, have assisted
contractors in getting free access to foreign exchange-for spares and
equipment. They have also encouraged the return of Ghanaian engineers to
Ghana, particularly to consultancy firms who, often with foreign
counterparts, are now undertaking a larger share of road design and
contractor supervision. The contracting industry has responded wel i to
these stimuli, especially with the increased volume of works now available.
There are some 85 registered road contractors classified by the GoverLment
in categories according to capacity. In addition, there are some 300 small
bridge and structures contractors.  Also, some major foreign contractors
operate in the country, and have won contracts under TRP-1.
2.14      The main institutional support needed are: (i) continued
technical assistance in some specialized areas where it is hard to find
Ghanaian engineers at the current Government salary levels; (ii) an
enlarged training program to improve existing staff skills, and to train
newly recruited engineers who join the agencies soon after graduation;
(iii) incentive programs, such as staff housing for key officials and
continued food aid through the WFP, which has helped to reduce absenteeism
rates and to improve productivity, and (iv) provision of more training and
advice to domestic contractors, to further improve their technical and
managerial efficiency.
2.15      The Government strategy for road rehabilitation has recently
evolved into two separate parts, one for trunk roads and another for feeder
roads. Well-focussed feeder road rehabilitation started only recently
(about 1989) after DFR became a relatively strong organization, So far,
the feeder road program has concentrated on rehabilitation of cocoa roads,
introduction of a successful labor-intensive road program based on light
equipaent and contractor training and support, community-supported
maintenance initiatives, and rehabilitation of non-cocoa feeder roads on a
selective basis. IDA has assisted DFR in these activities and in preparing
a rural road strategy, through RRMP, the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project and
TRP-1. To support its medium-term agricultural development program, the
Government is currently preparing a National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Program (NFRRMP), which will rehabilitate and strengthen
the feeder roads network over a 10-year period. IDA proposes to st:pport
the first 4-year slice of this program, starting in 1992 throug!i a _.eparate
project; detailed road selection and engineering for such a projeLt is now
underway, financed under a PPF-advance of US$750,000 from IDA.
2.16      A trunk road network stabilization plan was developed in 1987,
with the aim of clearing the backlog of periodic maintenance reouirements



-6-
on gravel and paved roads during the 1988-1995 period. The purpose of the
plan was to stabilize the mix of the condition of the network at an
acceptable 70% good and 30? fair/poor, almost reversing the mix prevailing
in 1987. On the basis of the adopted stabilization plan, the 1988-1995
requirements total about 11,300 km of periodic maintenance including light
rehabilitation, and 1,500 km of major rehabilitation works. The first
category included relatively low-cost works widely scattered over the
network and is being handled mainly through the IDA-supported TRP series,
since cofinancing is difficult to find for these small contracts. The
second category, which was more expensive per km, and consisted of large
contracts, was to be done mainly through bilateral aid, with IDA-support
only for engineering studies in some cases. Experience under TRP-1 has
shown that available funding (particularly cofinancing) was less than
expected, while physical road deterioration is more than estimated,
requiring more works and more funds. This has necessitated a stretch out
of the stabilization program to 1997. The present stabilization plan is
summarized in Annex 2-7.
2.17      TRP-1 originally focussed on the first two-year slice (1988-89)
of the program, which effectively is being completed over 1988-91, due to a
delayed start (with credit effectiveness in mid-1988), procurement and
construction time-lags, and the unavailability of US$20 million in
anticipated cofinancing, which had to be made up with local financing over
a longer period. Annex 2-7 contains a summary of the road lengths that are
being rehabilitated during TRP-1. These include 2,252 km of regravelling,
313 km of resealing and 458 km of resurfacing. The roads are shown on Map
IBRD No. 22091. Much of the works under LCB procedures have already been
completed or are nearing completion. The ICB process, including preparation
of standard bid documents and Government's approval of the ICB awards, took
longer than expected, and the ICB contracts were awarded in June and
August, 1990, with most of the work to be completed by end-91. Engineering
studies, specifications and tender documents for some 1,300 km of periodic
road maintenance works under TRP-2 have already been prepared, and bids
under LCB for some of these works were invited in August, 1990, and
prequalification notification under ICB for the remaining parts was issued
in October, 1990. This advanced preparation and the finalization of
standard bidding docur3nts under TRP-1 will enable the proposed TRP-2 to be
implemented quickly, avoiding delays faced under TRP-1. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to streamline its procurement clearance
process for award of future contracts, which will further expedite TRP-2
implementation.
2.18      Road funding problems:  A shortage of funding is the main
bottleneck in implementing the road stabilization program. As
institutional constraints have been largely resolved, and contractor
capacity is available, funding remains the main problem. The magnitude of
financing needed is indeed large, and beyond Ghana's capability to meet.
Clearing the backlogs in periodic maintenance, part of it involving heavy
rehabilitation or reconstruction, will cost about US$770 million (1990
prices), over the next 6-7 years, (excluding design and supervision costs
and price contingencies), with about US$570 million for trunk roads



-7-
(including urban roads) and US$200 million for feeder roads. This amounts
to about US$110 million per annum.
2.19      Based on the current level of allocation in the Government's
rolling three-year (1990-92) Public Investment Program (PIP), the above
investment level is feasible, subject to the availability of adequate
foreign funding. The Government's investment plan for 1990 provides US$113
million equivalent for road rehabilitation including TRP-1 (about 182 of
total investments), of which US$68 million is from the capital budget and
the Road Fund, and about US$45 million is expected from foreign funding.
The dependence on a high level of foreign funding will be a temporary phase
in view of the substantial capital investment needed to clear huge
maintenance backlogs; after road conditions become isormal by about 1997 the
maintenance needs will decline considerably, and can be met from
Government's own sources at slightly higher levels than present Government
funding.
2.20      In spite of the acute financial strain faced by Ghana in recent
years, the Government has successfully increased the share of domestic
resources raised and allocated for road maintenance and rehabilitation. In
1987, Government budget allocation for road maintenance and rehabilitation
was 12 billion cedis (including a recurrent budget, for routine maintenance
materials, of 1.6 billion cedis). The budget increased to 18 billion cedis
in 1989 and to 24 billion cedis for 1990 (including recurrent budget for
routine maintenance materials). However, in view of the devaluation (if the
cedi (160 cedis to one dollar in 1987 to 340 cedis in 1990), the budget
increase in constant 1990 dollars was only marginal, from about US$66
million in 1987 to US$71 million in 1990 -- about 2% per annum. This
budget amount covers the periodic maintenance backlog clearance program, as
well as other major rehabilitation works. The Government has released the
Road Fund and other budget amounts, particularly for the backlog clearance
project (TRP-1), promptly and regularly during 1988-1989, so that all
contractor payments were made without arrears (in marked contrast to the
pre-1988 situation). The Road Fund, started in 1985, mainly to finance
periodic maintenance works by contractors, has been particularly helpful in
removing uncertainty in funding. The Road Fund levy has remained about
constant in real value terms, and is presently about 5 of the ex-pump
price for gasoline and diesel (ex-pump price of regular gasoline in October
1990: Cedis 600 per Imperial gallon). To ensure continued regular flow of
funding, and larger Government contributions, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government will: (a) maintain the Road Fund at
least at its 1989 funding level in real terms (US$15 million equivalent);
(b) utilize Road Fund proceeds only for payment to contractors and GHA's
Mobile Maintenance Units (MMUs) doing maintenance and related works; (c)
allocate from the Road Fund and capital budget for the periodic road
maintenance and minor works category (including backlog clearance) at least
US$36 million, US$38 million and US$39 million equivalent (in 1990 prices)
for 1991, 1992 and 1993 respectively, as against US$35 million equivalent
in the 1990 budget; (d) allocate from the Recurrent Budget at least US$6.5
million annually during 1991-93 for routine maintenance materials and plant
operating costs excluding wages; and (e) release Road Fund accruals



monthly, and other budget allocations promptly as net -d.  (See Annex 2-8
for estim,aate of annual funding needs.)
2.21      During negotiations for TRP-1, the Government agreed to take
steps to increase the level of, and improve the structure of road user
charges. Some progress has been made in these areas, but there is a need
for further action. Total road user charges collected in 1987 were about 6
billion cedis (US$32 million equivalent in 1990 prices), as against an
estimated US$75 million (in 1990 prices) needed for adequate cost-recovery
from road users (See Project File Documents. Nos. D423388 and D423389).
Road users contributed 16 billion cedis in 1989 and are expected to
coxtribute 2.5 billion cedis in 1990, mainly in petroleum. taxes. Assuming
102 of ex-refinery price as general tax revenue (corresponding to a 102
general taxation level) and the rest as user charges, road user payments in
the 1990 budget can be nominally estimated as US$55 million equivalent,
compared to the US$75 million needed. Tax levels on petroleum, in view of
their macro-economic impact, are a subject of discussion and agreement
between the Government and the IMF, and in this context, the Government has
agreed to the principle of phased real increases in petroleum taxes.
Notwithstanding this, it is essential to increase cost-recovery from road-
users in order to adequately fund road maintenance programs through user
charges. Government assurances were obtained during negotiations, to
progressively increase cost-recovery from road users, so that full cost
recovery is achieved from 1994 onwards. This should be done in the light
of a study on adequacy of road-user charges which should be completed by
the Government and reviewed with IDA by June 30, 1992.
C. Road Transport
2.22      Road transport is the dominant inland mode of transport,
carrying some 942 of national freight traffic and 97Z of passenger traffic;
the balance is handled mainly by the railways. Both freight and passenger
traffic are operated primarily by the private sector, although the state-
owned transport parastatal operations and own account fleets play an
important role in passenger transport (about 1O0 of the market). The total
size of the truck fleet should provide adequately for the total volume of
demand but trucking service availability varies according to location and
especially the road conditions. Entry into the industry is free, and
generally any Ghanaian owning a roadworthy vehicle with valid insurance can
operate transport services for goods or passengers along any route without
a licence from Government.  Indicative passenger and freight tariffs are
set by Government and revised frequently based on changes in costs.
2.23      The existing vehicle fleet, estimated on the basis of vehicle
examination data for roadworthy vehicles (with adjustment for under-
reporting), now stands at about 126,000 units (Annex 2.9). The national
level of vehicles per capita is low, and the average age of the fleet is
estimated at about 10-15 years. Safety standards of the private fleet are
poor and it is estimated that about one-third of it would not pass a strict
safety test. As a result of improved access to foreign exchange, the
percentage of vehicles actually on the road, estimated as low as 30X of the
fleet in mid-1983 due to lack of tires and spare parts, is now believed to



9 
be above 601.  Fuel   sn'xa.ntion dat, wvhich raflect traffic levels, shows a
40S decline from 19Sl to 1  0     ci)4efI Ly a ?227 iacrpaFe in 1985, and a
small increase of atcLi  62 per year s lie (Annex 5-l0) .
2.24      Private transport orerators ere ty  c2aJly smali, averaging
4-5 vehicles, with a predorrinrseCe C'.- one-chc   oQnrer-perators.  They
provide about 852 of road transport -m s=ces, r.-s   n'airny small-to-medium
sized vehicles, especially taxis ar.                       Ev ss io, £mall-to-medium
trucks perform many passenger services.  Tc1re are a few private operators
of large buses, and these operate maiai1    Atva.  ihe.e are three public
sector bus companies, i.e., State            t e2r-.    .or  S¶i), Omnibus
Services Authority (OSA), and City Express s':es (CFES), which together
provide about 10X of road transport pass eng-- ser.-1ces and operate
throughout the country, in competitic  v. ti.       -iva--e -ctor.  These
firms provide the most dependable and sate          ^    )ut s£ervices in the
country, though their market share is spubLL >e o^YD1'C Eector companies
are presently encountering serious flaanc:.. . stt-e:ial and technical
problems including:  poor maintenance and loq- Veh4."le availability,
overstaffing, and revenue leakage.  Both the privste and public sectors
face the problem of high import cost of new buseT.  a,~se cedi prices have
gone up about 20002 over the last siw^ years due to r\<5a`uation. The result
has been long queues, unsafe and overcrowded buse3, .nd a vety high cost of
commuting.  The Government is seriously concerned sbout tile lack of
reliable scheduled services for public passenger -rc4uort  n alil urban
centers, and it is taking steps to restructure thF fv7e-^ J.ons of the public
sector companies (which receive no Government suLteaies; ro enable them to
operate efficiently, and is encouraging an ever, gu lto  -ri-ate sector
role.  The recent IDA-supported small at-d medium e;,-e-r1sC credit (Credit
No. 1996-GH) will assist private sector operators    oDioa:. commercial
credit to import new vehicles and paits.  To assibt         Gov einmment in
streamlining its public passeliger transport policicF. 1-5J-2 -v7ill finance a
Public Passenger Transport Study (See para 3.15).  n5;r>.p negotiations, it
was agreed that the Government will review the             -oif- 3i. this study on
its completion, no later than DeceaLeeL 31,    k,92  anm ^ rc cr an action
plan to implement agreed findings.
2.25      The Government has made subsraariai efto:-r  .- t5c:-le the
problems of road transport through appropriate polwh ich;ges, which
emphasize competition and free market uperdtiunl of x1:  Lzetstort system,
and through investment support where essential. The 7,aln sector problems
were identified during the preparation of TRP-1 and Ct.-a nroject provided
components and initiatives to address these problem,   'hese included: (i)
improving road conditions to reduce vehicle operatiring cssts; (ii) provision
of facilities and institutional support to set up a r    -afety system,
(iii) provision of training prcgrams, and commercial  rc6it 1ines to
private sector mechanics and entrepreneurs in the il^   al £mal7-scale,
vehicle repair services; (iv) a pilot project to desiV  a- n;1ror17ote the use
and domestic fabrication of low-cost ion-motor vehicles, imc' as bicycles,
trailers, single wheel farm caits) which are easily ma.   j?-nble and use
local resources and appropriate technology; {v) a pilot- project for
establishing a small freight terminal in the private s- ; s-  eo coordinate
freight collection and distribution; and (vi) technicak :-ssistance for



- 10 -
transport planning, sector studies and the strengthening of transport data
collection and analysis by the MTC. All these components, with the
exception of tv), are making good progress under TRP-l and generally need
continued support under TRP-2. (See Annex 2-6).
2.26      As agreed during negotiations for TRP-1, the Government set up a
Transport Policy Review Committee (TPRC) in 1989, which has members from
the private sector and key Government ministries, as a forum for closer
communication on transport policy problems and policies between Government
and the private sector. This Committee has been meeting generally once
every three months and has been useful. During negotiations, it was agreed
that this Committee should continue to function, and that IDA should
receive a copy of the minutes of its quarterly meetings.
2.27      Recent studies conducted by consultants have highlighted the
need for closer coordination between MTC, Accra Metropolitan Authority,
DUR, MRH, and private vehicle owner associations for improving the
organization and efficiency of public transport facilities and operations
in urban centers. During negotiations, the Government agreed to establish
before June 30, 1991, such a coordinating committee which should meet on a
semi-artnual basis.
D. Railways
2.28      The Government-owned Ghana Railway Corporation (GRC) serves
southern Ghana, the richest, most productive, and most populous region in
the country. Until the early seventies, GRC carried a significant share of
export traffic to the ports: bauxite, manganese and timber to Takoradi,
and cocoa to both Takoradi and Tema. Many sections of the Western and
Central Lines serve areas which lack any other means of transport. In the
1970s, neglect and consequent deterioration of the railway virtually
crippled Ghana's export capabilities. Railway traffic, which was about 1.6
million tons and 8 million passengers in the early seventies, declined to
374,000 tons and 2.1 million passengers in 1984. Rail has a clear economic
advantage over road for the transport of bulk commodities for export such
as manganese and bauxite, and provides economical transportation for
timber, cocoa and passengers. Traffic projections indicate that when
rehabilitation of the railway system is completed, traffic levels will be
restored to those reached in the early 70s, making a major contribution to
export earnings. As a result of rehabilitation work to date, freight
traffic, mostly on the Western Line, more than doubled between 1984 and
1989 (from 374,000 tons to 770,000 tons), and freight ton-km increased more
than three times, from 45.7 million ton-km to 132 million ton-km.
Moreover, passenger traffic increased from 2.1 million in 1984 to 3.3
million in 1989. There is currently a setback to traffic growth, due to a
shortage of locomotives, which may slow growth rates at least up to 1992.
(See paras 2.29 and 2.32). An overview of the present situation of GRC is
presented in Annex 2-11, while its past traffic trends and projections are
discussed in Annex 2-12.
2.29      Rehabilitation of track and replacement of signaling and
telecommunication on the Western Line, the principal corridor, were



completed in 1988 under the First Railway Rehabilitation Project together
with minimal provision for rehabilitation of locomotives, rolling stock and
workshops. The second tranche of railway rehabilitation covering
essentially track rehabilitation, sleeper renewal, and signaling and
telecommunication for the Central and Eastern Lines was provided for under
the ongoing TRP-l, together with additional provision for rehabilitation of
locomotives, rolling stock and workshops. Both projects provided for
essential institution building, management support and training. The
success achieved so far with these projects is encouraging, though problems
of funding remain for locomotives, maintenance parts and equipment (see
para 2.32). While passenger trains have borne the brunt of cuts in-service
due to the risk of derailment and the shortage of locomotive availability,
rail capacity to carry more freight traffic offered, as in bauxite exports,
has also been affected. Review of recent performance and projections
indicates that both freight and passenger traffic levels could have been
significantly higher but for these factors.
2.30      Under TRP-1, GRC agreed to take steps to raise tariffs gradually
to economic levels; to reduce staff and other operating costs through staff
reductions, to raise operational efficiencies, to increase availability of
rolling stock, to reduce turn-around time, etc., to develop new marketing
strategies and improve financial performance. GRC has made impressive
progress in many of these fields. Staff reductions have proceeded
according to plan.  The Government's monthly subsidy for the difference in
GRC costs and freight charges for general goods and passengers, but in
particular for bauxite and manganese, has fallen steadily from Cedis 737
million in 1984 to an annual rate of Cedis 214 million by June 1989, in
real terms about 1O of its level in 1984. A costing system for goods has
been in operation since March 1986, and tariffs for all key commodities are
now revised annually, or more frequently, to reflect increases in working
costs, excluding depreciation. In February 1989, at the time of the last
revision, tariffs were equal to or greater than average working costs
recorded up to that date. In the case of cocoa, the rate charged is about
70-80Z of road freight and is highly competitive. While GRC's locomotive
capacity is now one of the principal constraints to further improvement in
working ratios, financial performance is likely to be adversely affected by
additional liability for end-of-service benefits to retiring staff.
2.31      A Performance Agreement for 1990 which reflects operational and
financial targets, the respective obligations of Government and GRC, and
gives greater autonomy in tariff setting to personnel policy, was signed by
both GRC and the Government at the end of 1989. The Credit Agreement for
TRP-1 required that annual performance agreements be signed between the
Government and GRC, incorporating agreed targets. -During negotiations,
agreement was obtained to continue this practice at least up to 1995.
Agreement was also obtained on performance targets up to 1995, as shown in
Annex 2-11 which revised TRP-1 targets based on current projections. These
targets include reducing GRC's staff from its present level of 6,850 in
1990, to 6,000 in 1995. Since there is scope for further reduction in
staff through increased efficiency, GRC's agreement was obtained during
negotiations to: (a) update its earlier manpower study; (b) agree with



- 12 -
IDA, before June 30, 1991, on a revised staff reduction plan through 1995;
and (c) implement the agreed plan.
2.32      As noted above, GRC is currently facing capacity constraints
arising from a shortage of locomotives. Acquisition of two new locomotives
under TRP-1, and two units under the First Railway Rehabilitation Project
did not materialize during 1989-90, since the required cofinancing did not
come through. The fact that the Government could not release to GRC in
full the annual provision of US$1.5 million in foreign exchange for
purchase of spare parts by GRC, aggravated the problem by delaying
locomotive repairs. The Government release was only US$0.45 million for
L988, and US$0.55 million for 1989. Due to spare parts shortage.
availability of the existing locomotive fleet has dropped over 102 during
1990. Early in 1990, the Government released the full US$1.5 million for
spares, which will improve the situation somewhat; the Government have
also taken steps to streamline procedures for promptly releasing such funds
to GRC in future. Past shortages are now being aggravated by the need to
replace very old units. A recent reassessment of locomotive needs
including units needed for replacement, indicates that eight of the
existing locomotives of the 1851 class should be rebuilt or replaced, and
about 13 new locomotives should be purchased during 1990-94, at least seven
of them (type 2000) immediately. The Government is currently negotiating
funding for these with two bilateral agencies, and it is expected that
agreements for meeting most of the immediate needs will be finalized in
early 1991. In order to provide for the recurrent cost of spares,
assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that it
will continue providing US$1.5 million in foreign exchange or equivalent
cedis to GRC for 1991 and 1992 for purchase of spares, the amount to be
released quarterly, in advance, subject to GRC providing proof of spending
andlor commitment in the following six months (see para 4.07). After 1993,
GRC will be financially strong enough to meet these needs on its own,
without subsidy. In addition (as noted in para 2.32), a condition of
disbursement of IDA funds for the railway component under the project is
the signing of cofinancing agreements: (a) for at least seven new mainline
locomotives; and (b) for rebuilding of at least eight existing locomotives,
or purchase of four new mainline locomotives of 1651 class as a
replacement.
S. Sector Planning and Public Investment Program
2.33      To provide sector Planning support for Ghana's transport sector
institutions, the Government is implementing a phased program of technical
assistance and other support to strengthen planning units in MTC, MRH, GHA
and DFR. UNDP assistance to the MTC planning unit was completed in 1988.
Since then, IDA has continued to support sector policy studies, feasibility
studies and planning work by GRA, DFR and MTC, through consultancy support,
staff training and office improvement and equipment. The studies have given
exposure to the concepts in planning, project evaluation, management and
other related matters to a large number of local staff. However, most
officers require further experience to enable them to formulate policies,
action programs and decisions. Sector studies implemented under TRP-1 have
assisted in planning and sector policy work. The project will support some



- 13 -
new studies and also assist in completing the ongoing program of office
improvement and training.
2.34      The Government recently established the nucleus of a National
Planning Commission (NPC) for long-range planning. TRP-1 included
assistance (US$1 million) for supporting NPC's work in infrastructure
planning.  This component is moving very slowly and is yet to gather
momentum, due to delays in fully formalizing NPC's operations, and in
appointing key officials.
2.35      The PIP Unit in MFEP has recently emerged as a powerful and
effective body in investment planning-and sectoral coordination. It
prepares, monitors and updates the rolling three year PIP, which started in
1985. The Transport Sector Division in the PIP Unit coordinates
effectively with the investment planning work done by transport sector
agencies.
2.36      The 1990-92 PIP was finalized by the Government in June 1990 in
consultation with the Bank, in the context of a review of the Bank-
supported Structural Adjustment Credit. It indicates 32Z of resource
allocation to the transport sector, most of it for rehabilitation. The PIP
includes foreign funds which are tentative and yet to be confirmed or
coammitted.
2.37      It was agreed under TRP-1 that the three-year PIP for the
transport sector will be reviewed between IDA and Government, annually up
to 1992, and the Government would consult the Association before
undertaking major new investment projects costing more than US$5 million
equivalent not included in the agreed PIP. During negotiations, it was
agreed that such review and consultation on the transport sector investment
plans will be continued up to 1995.
F. Transport Sector Issues
2.38      A Transport Sector Strategy Note (TSSN, Report No. 5737-GH, June
1985) prepared by the Bank and agreed with the Government in mid-1985, had
focussed on the country's main transport problems and policy issues, and
presented a strategy for tackling them over the short and medium terms. A
further review took place in June 1989, in the context of a Government-
Bank review of sector strategies. The agreed sector strategy provided for
a high proportion, 40Z-50Z, of resources to be allocated to transport and
other infrastructure with necessary policy and institutional reforms linked
to a phased program of IDA assistance to rehabilitate the transport sector.
2.39      As part of IDA's ongoing TRP-1 and the Port Rehabilitation
project, the Government agreed to implement basic policy and institutional
reforms in areas highlighted by the TSSN. These include, among others: (a)
annual review with IDA, of Government's three-year transport investment
plans and public expenditure programs; (b) reorganization of public sector
port agencies on commercial lines, adequate cost recovery in the ports, and
an increased role for the private sector in port activities; (c)
rehabilitation of the railway, improved cost recovery including



- -14-
introduction of economic tariffs, elimination of subsidies for goods and
passengers combined with an aggressive marketing program, and measures to
speed up locomotive and rolling stock turnaround and availability; (d)
increased share for private sector contractors in road maintenance, and
easing of the-ir operational problems arising from Government policies, as
well as introduction of competitive bidding for all periodic road
maintenance and rehabilitation contracts, and improved supervision and
auditing; (e) phased reduction of excess staff in the road, rail and port
agencies; (f) establishment and replenishment of a Road Fund based on taxes
on fuel and other user charges to finance road maintenance; (g) measures
for improving cost-recovery from roads, railways and airports; (h)
streamlining transport regulations, and establishing a framework for policy
discussions between the private sector and the Government, to strengthen
the market-oriented transport system; and (i) reorganization of public
sector transport undertakings on commercial lines, and pursuing
privatization or joint sector operation where needed.
2.40      Reasonable progress has been made towards achieving the above
reforms. The main areas where progress is slow are: reorganization and
cost recovery at airports where bilateral technical assistance to properly
organize the recently established Ghana Airport Authority has been delayed,
and in the restructuring of some of the transport parastatals (the Black
Star Shipping Company and the three state-owned bus companies). The IDA-
supported Public Enterprise Project is continuing efforts in this regard.
(See Annex 2-13, Transport Parastatals - Reforms Underway).
G. Bank Group Involvement in the Transport Sector
2.41      IDA's role in the transport sector in Ghana has been important
in guiding and supporting rational sector policies and institutional
reforms, and in supplementing resources. IDA helped finance an engineering
credit of US$1.5 million in 1969 and seven transport projects. These
included four highway projects, one railway project, one port project, and
one sector rehabilitation project totalling US$220 million. In addition,
there have been important transport components in four program-type
emergency credits for import and export rehabilitation, and in the Accra
District Rehabilitation Credit. The main conclusions from experience with
past road and rail projects (based on audit completion reports) were that:
(a) the project's physical investments yielded acceptable economic returns
but until recently their institution building objectives had been met only
in part; (b) the difficult ec~onomic conditions of the country and
implementation deficiencies slowed down progress under the projects; (c)
all highway projects had suffered from inadequate funding, and revenue from
road user charges has been inadequate to offset the cost of regular
maintenance, thus contributing further to the backlog in periodic
maintenance; (d) all projects suffered from the shortage of foreign
exchange needed to enable the Government to fulfill local financing
obligations; and (e) most projects also suffered from the limited capacity
for policy and institutional change.
2.42      In light of the above lessons, recent projects (since 1984),
i.e. RRMP, Port Rehabilitation and TRP-1 have initiated major changes in



15 -
the organization and structure of the executing agencies, notably in GHA,
MRH, MTC, GRC, and GPHA, and provided adequate training aad techlilcal
assistance to consolidate the reforms introduced, and to enhance domestic
capacity for project design and implementation. During this period IDA has
participated actively in a continuous dialogue with Government in improving
project performance. In addition, the IDA-supported ERP, concurrently
implemented by the Government, with its major macro-economic reforms,
foreign exchange liberalization, and improved budgeting, planning and
resource mobilization systems, has created an environment in which the
recent projects are generally performing much better.
2.43      With regard to TRP-l,though there have been initial delays,
particularly in the award of ICB contracts, all road contracts have now
been awarded, and about 802 of TRP-1 funds fully committed, and the project
will meet its full objectives within the original project completion date.
As noted in para 2.17, the Government has agreed with IDA to simplify its
procurement review process and to reduce contract approval time to avoid
similar delays on TRP-2.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01        The project will complement and reinforce IDA's ongoing
assistance to Ghana in support of its ERP, and will continue the efforts
started under TRP-l. The aim of the project is to continue to sustain and
accelerate Ghana's ongoing economic recovery by:
(a)   removing physical bottlenecks to the expansion of exports, farm
production and labor mobility; and facilitating private sector
development through improved maintenance and rehabilitation of
the road and railway infrastructure;
(b)   improving the efficiency of both the public and private sector
transport management through promotion of market-oriented
policies, institutional development and manpower training;
(c)   encouraging new methods of infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance practices, using appropriate technology, local
resources, and community participation;
(d)   reducing transportation costs; and
(e)   alleviating poverty in rural areas, and improving the self-
development of rural women through a Pilot program focussed on:
women's employment and earning under a specially-designed,
labor-intensive road program; related savings schemes to
channel wage-earning into income-generating activities; support
of community-sponsored activities to improve rural transport,



- 16 -
well-water supply and the environment, through involvement of
local NGOs.
B.  Project Descrintion
3.02        The project provides support fort
(a)   civil works, institutional strengthening and equipment in the
road sub-sector (64Z);
(b)   capacity improvements in the railway sub-sector through
provisions for locomotives and wagons, equipment and tools,
civil works, and institutional strengthening (331);
(c)   public and private transport sector institutional development
(2Z); and
(d)   low-cost rural infrastructure development and maintenance
systems with emphasis on women's employment and involvement,
through provisions for civil works and institutional support to
women and NGOs (1X).
3.03        The main components and sub-components of the project are:
(a)   Road and Bridge Maintenance and Rehabilitation (mainly through
GHA) (see Maps IBRD Nos. 22089, 22090 and 22091).
(i)   a three-year (1991-1993) time-slice of the road
stabilization program for clearing part of the
accumulated road maintenance backlog by carrying out
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation on about 2,600 km
of paved and gravel-surfaced trunk roads;
(ii)  rehabilitation of six priority bridges;
(iii) consultancy services for (i) and (ii) above and for the
engineering design for periodic maintenance/
rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of trunk roads,
including major rehabilitation of three primary trunk
roads (350 km) and several bridges;
(iv)  technical assistance to support GHA in planning, quality
control, and contract management;
(v)   local and foreign training programs; and
(vi)  providing road maintenance equipment and spare parts,
laboratory equipment and tools, training equipment and
training aids.



-17-
'   .   (b),  SuDMort to Ministry of Roads and  ghways OlR)
(i)   training for MRH staff locally and abroad, office
improvements and office equipment; and .
(ii)  technical assistance for the Project Management Unit
(PMU) and support to the local contracting industry.
(c)   Railway Rehabilitation (GRC) (See Map IBPD No. 22088)
(i)   improving rail capacity, mainly on the Western Line,
through rebuilding and purchasing of locomotives, vagons,
and .other equipment. and ..spa,reparts, ,sleeper,renewal on
some sections, and axle-load strengthening of some
bridges;
(ii)  workshop and service management; and
Ciii) consultancy services for track realignment and other
tudies, and technical assistance and training to
strengthen GRC.
(d)   Support to Transport Sector Institutions (throuah MTC)
Ci)   strengthening of MTC's organization including policy
tudies, planning and statistics training, and office
equipment.
(ii)  training programs for private sector road transport;
(iii) road safety program consisting of data collection and
analysis, vehicle inspection and training;
(e)   Northern Region Pilot Scheme (NRPS) (mainly through DFR) (See
Map IBRD No. 22089)
(i)   labor-intensive rehabilitationlconstruction of about 150
km of low-cost rural access roads and about 50 hand-dug
wells, covering about 50 villages in the poorer areas of
Northern Ghana, with conwmnity involvement, particularly
of women, in building and maintaining roads and hand-dug
wells;
(ii)  promotion of the use of appropriate non-motorized
transport vehicles in rural areas, to reduce head-
porterage by women; and
(iii) technical assistance for project management, impact
studies, and support to non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) involving women to improve environment, nutrition
levels and other self-development activities.



.   .~~~~~~                                      ~ - 18 -
Road and Bridge Maintenance and Rehabilitation
3.04        Ghana developed a trunk road network stabilization program in
1987 and the Association, in support of the program, provided assistance
under the ongoing TRP-1. TRP-1 targets for 1988-91 are 3,023 km in trunk
roads, of which 1,838 kms have been completed, and 1,185 kms are in
progress and will be completed by end 1991 (See Annex 2-7). TRP-2 will
supplement Ghana's effort and is consistent with the objectives set under
TRP-1. The project will cover the 1991-1993 slice of the revised ten-year
trunk road network stabilization program (paragraph 2.16) and thus help to
clear another tranche of the remaining periodic maintenance backlog (Annex
3-1). It will also improve GHA's performance in routine maintenance.
Under TBP-2 a total of about 2,600 km of trunk roads would receive periodic
maintenance consisting of: 1,570 km of regravelling, 150 km of resealing,
and 880 km of resurfacing with minor improvements (See Annex 2-7). The
table below shows the achieved and estimated annual work targets of the
trunk road stabilization program.
Trunk Road Network Stabilization Program (Revised)
(in Kilometers)
Achieved/Planned Targets
Road Condition Mix
in z
Year  Annual   TRP-1        TRP-2  TRP-3/4  Good  Fair  Poor
End
1988     630   630 (RRMP)                       24    37    39
1989     974   974                              29    32    39
1990     823   823                              33    28    39
1991   1,163   596            567               39    25      36
1992   1,021                1,021               43    24    33
1993     990                  990               46    24      30
1994   1,300                          1,300     52    23    25
1995   1,300                          1,300     57    22    21
1996   1,481                          1,481     62    22    16
1997   1,580                          1,580     68    21      11
11,262 3,023         2,578    5,661
3.05     Bridge works planned under TRP-2 are part of GHA's long-term
Bridge Rehabilitation Program, based on priorities determined through an
IDA-financed study. Rehabilitation of 14 bridges was financed under the
RRMP, and these works have recently been completed. Nine bridges are
presently being tendered for rehabilitation under TRP-1; and TRP-2 will
cover rehabilitation and reconstruction of six bridges. In addition, the
project would help set up the second Bridge Maintenance Unit (BMU), to be
located in the north. Field works are being undertaken to prepare a
feasibility report on the location. The project provides about US$0.5
million to establish the new unit. The first BMU started under RRMP has



,19.
proved a success and has mainly undertaken emergency rehabilitation works
of bridges without outside technical assistance.
3.06      For the road works under TRP-2, engineering design for some
1,300 km has been completed under TRP-1 and design work on the remaining
1,300 km will be started during the fourth quarter of 1990 and completed by
mid-1991, with financing under a PPF advance for TRP-2. Selection of roads
for the program has been completed by GRA's planning department, with the
help of technical assistance provided under TRP-1. The project provides an
estimated 820 mIns of consultancy services for road components, (with 540
mlms to be supplied by domestic firms), consisting of (i) 180 mIms for
engineering design of about 3,000 km; (ii) 540 m/ms for civil works
contract supervision of about 2,600 km of trunk roads and six bridges
(Annex 3-Z); and (iii) 100 mJms, for engineering design of three primary
trunk roads (350 km) (Annex 3-3). To assist in the implementation of the
expanded road program, the project also provides 158 m/ms of technical
assistance to support GHA in highway planning, pavement engineering,
quality control, contract works management, and stores, central and
regional workshop assistance.
3.07      For the 1991-93 project period, about 6,600 staff of GHA, DFR
and DUR will require training, covering categories ranging from high level
professionals to semi-skilled personnel (Annex 3-4). GHA has established
the Central Training Center (CTC), Road Training and Production Unit (RTPU)
and Mechanical Training and Production Unit (MTPU). The CTC has the
experience, and capability to carry out the training program for the three
agencies. To support this training requirement, the project provides 48
m/ms of technical assistance consisting of 24 mlms for each of the RTPU and
MTPU. Funds are also provided for training equipment and training aids for
CTC, RTPU and MTPU; tuition/boarding fees for staff training at local
institutions; and training abroad of selected staff through academic and
practical courses and seminars. GHA, using local funds, will carry out the
design and construction for a new CTC to replace the structurally damaged
facility at Shai Hills. RTPU and MTPU will also provide training to
domestic contractors on a full-cost recovery basis.
3.08      GHA's force account operations are focussed mainly on routine
maintenance and emergency activities which require special supervision
since GHA has successfully given a portion of its routine maintenance
activities to single-man contractors and other local contractors. Based on
the in-place Equipment Management System (EMS), GHA's equipment
replacementladditional requirement, for force account operations, is
estimated at about US$12 million (Annex 3-5). The project provides funds
covering about 252 of the estimated need to replace obsolete road
maintenance and workshop equipment; equipment and tools for a second Bridge
Maintenance Unit (BMU) and RTPU; laboratory equipment and tools; training
equipment and training aids; and spare parts. These requirements were
identified under TRP-1 technical assistance. The reduced allocation for
equipment is mainly due to limited fund availability, need for advance
institutional input in trained manpower and consideration to be given to
increased routine maintenance by contract. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with GHA on the type and number of equipment to be financed



- 20 
under the project, including a list of essential equipment to be
overhauled, using the US$2.0 million provision for spare parts.
3.09     The project will provide assistance for building about 40 modest
housing units for GHA's field engineers; this is considered essential as an
incentive to attract and retain qualified engineers and other staff.
Another major incentive during the last three years has been the provision
of food aid to road and other transport workers by the WFP. This program,
which has boosted staff morale and health, and significantly contributed to
increased productivity, is likely to be continued during TRP-2; its
continuation is currently under review between the Government and WFP.
Support to Ministry of Roads and Highways MERH)
3.10     The Project Management Unit (PMU), run by consultants (foreign
and local) with counterpart staff from MRHIGHA/DFR, was established under
the RRMP and continued under the ongoing TRP-1. PMU's functions include,
inter-alia, assistance in procurement matters. financial accounting,
project monitoring and progress reporting. It has performed well in
assisting MRH in monitoring the implementation of the projects, preparing
standard procurement documents, processing of procurement, maintaining
financial and accounting records, training counterparts and preparing
progress reports. The PMU will ultimately become a regular organizational
unit of MRH. At present the low salary levels in Government fail to
attract experienced experts for these critical tasks, thus there is a need
to continue the technical assistance for PMU during TRP-2. The objective
under TRP-2 would be to train sufficient local staff and to consolidate the
monitoring system already started under TRP-1. To facilitate integration
with the MRH organization, the scale of consulting inputs for PHU will be
less than in past projects, and the unit will consist of individual
consultants and MRH staff reporting to the MRH's Chief Technical Director,
rather than a consultancy firm rnulk:ig the PMU as at present.  The project
provides 122 m/ms technical assiszvace consisting of one project
manager/procurement specialist (36 :;htej; one financiallaccounting
specialist (36 m/ms) and short-term contract management and equipment
specialists (50 mIms).
3.11     MRH has an important and expanded role in support of Ghana's ERP.
The MRH budget receives about 25Z of Ghana's capital budget, and supports
many projects other than the TRPs, under bilateral assistance. To
effectively render the needed support, MRH needs to strengthen its
planning, programming and monitoring of operations. The project includes
funds for local and foreign training of selected MRHE staff through academic
and practical courses and seminars. To supplement the strengthened
institutional capability, the project also includes limited funds for
office improvements and office equipment.
3.12     The project will also continue training and technical advice to
domestic road contractors to build up their capacity. Recent experience
shows that the domestic contractors perform much better after receiving
assistance in improved organizational and management practices. This will
be done partly through the RTPU and MTPU under GHA (see paragraph 3.07) and



-21-
through advisory services and training programs organized through MRH.
US$625,000 has been provided under the project for this purpose.
Lailway Rehabilitation (GRC)
3.13      The railway component focuses on further rehabilitation of rail
capacity, mainly on the Western Line, through the replacement and addition
of locomotives, wagons, and other equipment; spare parts for rehabilitation
of equipment; line improvement and sleeper renewal; strengthening of about
five bridges to improve axle loads to 16 tons; and workshop management
support. Annex 3-6 provides details of equipment to be purchased and
refurbished. Line and drainage improvements, and sleeper renewal will
focus on works needed on the worst sections of the Western Line. Line
improvement studies are underway for major rehabilitation to accommodate
increased speed, safety and axle load capacity. The project will also
finance the supply and installation of facing point locks to complete the
new signaling and communication system. Since the proposed strengthening
of bridges on the Western Line to carry 16 ton axle-loads is considered
essential for the efficient operation of the heavy locomotives of 2250 HP
proposed to be bought from France, during negotiations it was agreed that
GRC will complete the necessary engineering studies for the bridges and
complete their strengthening before December 31, 1992.
3.14      A total of 216 m/ms of technical assistance is provided under
the project for procurement, stock-keeping, computerization, main
workshops, and running sheds management (108 mlms); and operational
assistance in finance and accounting, and signalling and teLecommunications
(108 m/ims). The project also includes provision for training of about 100
staff to strengthen GRC institutional capability, for the line improvement
study and a containerization study.
Support to Transport Sector Institutions (MTC)
3.15      MTC's responsibility includes carrying out studies requiring
regular updating in areas of inter-modal transport studies; a Public
Passenger Transport Study; development and monitoring transport policies
and regulations; transport tariffs; and road safety programs including
vehicle inspection. To sustain progress and improvements-started under
TRP-1, the project provides 12 m/m of technical assistance and other inputs
for planning, sector studies on public passenger transport and other
issues, programming and monitoring operations, and for essential office
equipment and improvements (Annex 3-7); and training locally and abroad for
MTC staff. As an institutional support to the informal, micro-level
private sector vehicle-servicing industry, the project will continue the
successful training programs started under TRP-l. The training is provided
to generally illiterate mechanics and service-shop operators in Kumasi and
Accra, through existing training institutions. It will also provide driver
training to encourage safe driving practices to reduce high accident rates
(Annex 3-8).
3.16      Study and introduction of road safety provisions have been
undertaken under TRP-1 which include identification of accident-prone road



- 22-
locations and assessment of preventive measures, computerization of
collected data, vehicle safety inspection and road signs and markings, and
drivers training. Relevant agencies are now pulling together manpower and
experience to jointly address road safety (Annex 3-9). Funding under TRP-
2 will help to sustain and strengthen the experience already gained which
will ultimately lead to establishing a more effective nation-wide
institution responsible for safety programming, monitoring and
implementation.
Northern Region Pilot Scheme for Rural Infrastructure
3.17     This will be an innovative component, which will integrate  DFR's
successful experience in Labor-based road rehabilitation under RRMP, and
MTC's successful experiment in promoting new forms of low cost intermediate
means of transport (IMT) such as cycle trailers and small farm vehicles
under TRP-1. The pilot scheme (Annex 3-10) will provide both low cost
rural access roads and low cost IMT to relatively inaccessible rural areas
in the north, bringing mobility to the villagers. Under the project, about
150 km of rural access roads, serving about 50 villages, will be
rehabilitated through labor-based contractors; DFR will contract the works
to such contractors who have been trained and equipped under an ongoing
training program supported by ILO, IDA and the Project for Amelioration of
Social Costs of Adjustment.
3.18     The pilot scheme will be designed and implemented in such a way
that there will be majority participation of women in road works so as to
increase their earnings and savings potential. With women's participation
of about 70Z as compared to the normal level of 352, about 250 persons will
be employed daily for three years through involvement of two local
grassroot NGOs, the 31st December Women's Movement (TDWM), and AMASCHINA.
Part of the women's earnings (about 20%) will be channelled by these NGOs
into voluntary personal savings schemes, to support income-generating
activities.
3.19     The NGOs will operate as sub-contractors to the main contractors
for mobilizing labor. The organizational fees received by the NGOs from
contractors and a 20-cedi daily contribution from each participating worker
will be put into a Community Projects Fund operated by each NGO. Part of
this fund will be used by the NGOs to purchase IMT vehicles for the
distribution to individuals on credit terms. The project will also provide
direct support to NGOs to supplement community efforts in improving
environment (village woodlots, tree planting alongside roads), increasing
nutrition levels, improving rural transport and well-water supply, and
maintaining infrastructure. Such direct support will be in the shape of
training, organizational strengthening, twinning arrangements with other
rural NGOs in developing countries, and limited funding for material
inputs. The project will finance a study on project impact and
replicability, for which the NGOs will help collect data over a three-year
period.
3.20     WFP has agreed in principle to provide food to the workers under
this program. WFP's support will be confirmed before March 31, 1991 and,



-23-
if not available, the nutrition component, which will have the most impact
from WFP assistance, will be suitably reduced or redefined by IDA and the
Government.
3.21      Discussions with potential contractors and the two NGOs and
visits to the villages indicate a good response to the project. The list
of villages and priority road components have been selected with
considerable inputs from the NGOs. DFR, which will implement the project,
will sign suitable contracts with road contractors and sub-contractors
(NGOs). During negotiations, it was agreed that TDWM and AMASCHINA will
sign, before June 30, 1991, subsidiary grant agreements with the Government
on their obligations in subsequent maintenance of the roads, in planting
and maintaining trees alongside the roads, purchase of IMT vehicles, etc.
The project components will-be divided about equally between the two NGOs
for implementation support.
3.22      This component for feeder road and rural infrastructure will be
a means of improving the lot of poor rural women, through increased
earnings, savings, reduced head porterage, and increased community self-
help activities. It will also provide a model for grass-root level
community involvement in maintaining rural infrastructure.
C. Proiect Cost and Financing
3.23      The estimated total cost of the project is US$227.6 million
(including taxes, physical and price contingencies) with a foreign exchange
component of US$165.2 million equivalent or 732 of project cost. Import
duties and taxes on the project related imports are estimated at US$15.1
million equivalent. Costs have been estimated at October 1930 prices, and
at an exchange rate of US$1 = 340 cedis. Cost include physical
contingencies tailored to each project component, averaging 102 of base
cost. Price contingencies have been derived from the implementation
schedule and the following assumed rates of price increase: foreign prices
2.6? in 1991, 4.1Z in 1992, 3.8Z per annum in 1993-96; local prices 152 in
1991, 102 in 1992 and 5% per annum in 1993-94. The exchange rate is
expected to adjust to reflect differences between the international and
domestic rates of inflation.
3.24        Cost estimates for periodic road maintenance are based on
recent LCB and ICB contract costs per km which amount on average to US$
15,500 for regravelling, US$30,000 for resealing and US$65,000 for
resurfacing. For the bridge rehabilitation and repair works, 1990 average
cost of recent contracts and force account were used. For both
international and local consultants, recent mlm rates in Ghana are used
(US$13,000 for foreign and US$3,500 for local consultants per m/m). For
routine road maintenance, workshop, training and office equipment, 1990
prices were used as a basis. The cost estimates were confirmed during
negotiations.
3.25        Project costs include US$6.2 million for training, and US$13.6
million for project design, supervision, and technical assistance. Of the
latter, about 752 is for design work and supervision, involving about 1100



24
man-months of consultancy works a major part of which is expected to be
done by local consultants (830 m/m). The latter constitutes work
contracted out to private consultants, in lieu of these tasks being done by
the Government agencies themselves. Technical assistance in terms of
advisory functions would amount to 200 mlms costing about US$3.1 million,
consisting mostly of expatriate help. The above cost estimates include
contingencies and operating cost.
3.26         The project cost and financing plan are snumarized in the table
below with details in Annexes 3-11 and 3-12. IDA, will finance US$96
million equivalent, or about 422 of total project cost. The Government is
expected to cover US$65.6 million equivalent (292) of the total project.
GOG*s contribution amounts to US$20.1 million per year for the TRP-2 three-
year road program, of which about 702 will be from the Road Fund (see para
2.20) raised from user charges. Cofinancing agencies are expected to cover
about US$66 million (29Z) of project costs.
Suumsry Financina Plan
financing Souro
(USX million)
No.   Component              Total Cost  IDA    COG(Road Fund IL
w/Contingencies                          + Budget)    Cofinancing
-.    OHA
1.    Trunk Road
Stabilization Progrom   125.02    84.e6  6e.B8
2.    Bridge Rehabilitation
Program                19.69       1.28   8.59        8.67
8.    Major Roads Engineering
Designs                 1.43       1.43    -         -
4.    Institutional Support    4.50       4.87   0.18       -
S.    Incentive Program        0.66       0.66   0.10      -
II.   MRH
6.    Institutional Support    4.38      4.02   0.88        -
iri.  GRc
7.    Line Rehabilitation and
Improvements            6.60       4.26  0.e8         1.64
8.    Locomotives and Rolling
Stock                  62.68       6.89  2.50        54.98
9.    Studies and Technical
Assistance              4.82       4.88  -            9.49
IV.   MTC
10.   Institutional Support    1.28       1.14  0.09       -
11.   Sector-wide Training     1.51       1.40  0.11       -
12.   Road Safety              .08       08 T.  0.19       -
V.    DFR
18.   Northern Region Pilot
Scheme                  2.98       2.44  0.54        -
Total ProJect Cost    227.64      86.00  65.65       65.96
./ Excluding interest during construction for railway component.



- 25'-
3.27      To fill its financing gap of US$66 million, the Government has
approached Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE-France), ADF,
ODA (UK), Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA), and
Netherlands Investment Organization (NIO).  Cofinancing negotiations are in
various stages of progress, and final agreements are expected during the
first half of 1991. To avoid risks from delays in finalizing agreements,
the IDA/Government-financed components have been selected in such a way
that the IDA program will not be adversely affected even if cofinancing
arrangements are delayed. The road program is entirely funded by IDA/GOG,
while the bridge rehabilitation is a self-standing component, funded by
BADEA. In the case of railways, however, some of the items assigned for
cofinancing are critical for the success of the IDA-financed program, and
for GRC's viability as an entity. In particular, purchase of at least
seven new locomotives and rebuilding of eight existing locomotives (or
their replacement with four new locomotives) are critical. Cofinancing
negotiations for these are well advanced. As noted in para 2.32, in order
to ensure success of the railway investments, a condition of IDA
disbursements for the railway component is the signing of financing
agreements for locomotives.
3.28      US$14.0 million equivalent of the IDA credit for financing the
railway components will be onlent to GRO by the Government at 8Z interest
with a repayment period of 20 years including seven years of grace; the
foreign exchange risk will be borne by GRC. This was agreed on during
negotiations. The Government is expected to make similar onlending
arrangements for the funds provided by cofinanciers. The "interest during
construction, on the railway components, and other Government capital
contributions, will be treated as Government equity contribution to GRC.
Signing of a satisfactory onlending agreement between the Government and
GRC, with the onlending terms and conditions as detailed above is a
condition of disbursement for the railway component.
D. Implementation
3.29      The project will be implemented over a five-year period, and is
scheduled for completion in March, 1996. A detailed implementation
schedule for all components and sub-components of the project including a
schedule for the start and completion of preparatory works, award of
contracts for works, goods, and services including completion periods, has
been prepared in consultation with the project agencies, (See Project
Document No. D42341). During negotiations, this schedule was reviewed and
confirmed, as also a timetable for IDA supervision visits. It was further
agreed that a mid-term project implementation review involving IDA and all
project implementation agencies will be carried out by December 31, 1993.
Bids for some of these works under LCB procedures, and prequalification
proposals under ICB for the remaining parts were invited in October, 1990.
3.30      The road, brid2e and MRH components will be implemented by GHA
and MRH, with assistance from the PHU. While GHA will be the primary
implementing agency for the road and bridge programs, PMU will assist in



26 -
procurement and monitoring of these operations, all of which will have
separate engineering consultants for design and supervision.  Engineeting
design for about half the road components has been completed by consultants
under TRP-1; consultants for the selection and engineering design of the
remaining trunk roads will be appointed by January, 1991. During
negotiations, GHA agreed with IDA on TORs for the technical assistance
component for highway planning, procurement, engineering, works quality
control, managing and monitoring of contracts and training. Proposals will
be invited in early 1991.
3.31      Part of the periodic road maintenance works have already been
packaged into LCB (571 km) and ICB (713 km) contracts.  The remainder of
periodic maintenance works under TRP-2 would partly be prepared for ICB and
partly for LCB.  About 540 km of periodic maintenance works will be
executed by GHA's Mobile Maintenance Unit during 1991-1993 (about 180 km
per year, comprising 100 km of regraveling, 30 km of resealing and 50 km of
resurfacing) (Annex 3-1). The major portion of the paved roads periodic
maintenance will be done through ICB, mainly because of the experience
needed in attaining precise quality control for bitumen surfaced road
pavements. Complex bridge rehabilitation works will also be carried out
through ICB while repair works will be done by the BMU which demonstrated a
capability in executing such works under TRP-1.
3.32      GHA will appoint consultants for feasibility studies and
detailed engineering designs for the rehabilitation of three primary roads
(para 3.03 (a)(iii)). During negotiations, it was agreed that consultants
for the PMU will be appointed before April 1, 1991.
3.33      The railway component will be implemented by GRC which has
gained good experience in implementing the previous two railway projects.
GRC has prepared specifications for new locomotives and equipment. GRC will
finalize the list of spare parts to be financed under the credit. It will
employ consultants for bridge strengthening and track realignment/
improvement studies on the Western Line, and for supervision of bridge
strengthening work.
3.34      MTC, with the technical assistance provided, will directly
handle its sub-components including the sector study; road safety program;
sector-wide training for mechanics and drivers at local institutions;
training abroad of selected staff; and office improvements and office
equipment. During negotiations, MTC provided details of arrangements to be
made with local institutions for training of mechanics and drivers, and the
implementation program and TOR for studies. It was aRreed that MTC will
furnish to IDA, before June 30, 1991, copies of its agreements with local
training institutions to carry out the training program. -
3.35      The NRPS will be implemented by DFR, with assistance form PMU,
particularly for managing special accounts and withdrawal requests. DFR
will appoint in Tamale, the project site, its own engineer to be in charge
of the component as the resident manager of the pilot component. DPR will
be assisted by two United Nations volunteers specialized in rural water
supply, including hand-digging of wells, and one in project monitoring.



- n -
The social engineering-aspects will be assisted by short-term experts from
other NGOs under twinning arrangements, and by the training visit of local
NGO voluuteers to other NGOs in developing countries.  Consultancy
assistance will be used for nutrition education, and project evaluation and
impact studies (as noted in para 3.21). MRH will sign, not later than June
30, 1991, subsidiary grant agreements with the two NGOs involved.
Status of Project Preparation
3.36     The project is in an advanced stage of preparation as follows:
(a)   Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation:
(i)   Under TRP-1, GHA carried out a preliminary study on the
trunk road network stabilization program. Road links
amounting to a total of 4,750 km have been identified using
tentative cost estimates and ADT. Engineering design for
about 1,300 km has been completed, and this will be
tendered under TRP-2. Engineering design on the balance of
about 1,300 km of trunk roads will start in early 1991, and
is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 1991;
consultants for these works are being appointed.
(ii)  GHA has developed standard bidding documents under TRP-1
for works and goods, and sample procurement documents for
services. These documents only require updating by
incorporating specific details and minor revisions where
needed. GHA also has standard documents for pre-
qualifying contractors, letters of invitation, TOR, and
contract agreements.
(iii) TRP-2 will benefit from the experience already gained by
MRH/PMU in processing procurement and monitoring project
implementation under the ongoing TRP-1.
(b)   Ghana Railways Corporation
(i)   GRC has a well established institutional capability and its
management has accumulated experience in similar types of
project components under previous Bank and other donor
financed projects. TRP-2 provides technical assistance to
fill capacity gaps due to expanding operations. Most of the
civil works improvement programs are already identified
under previous projects and early packaging of contracts
will be feasible.
(ii)  The main constraint to the implementation of the railway
component will be the availability of funds for
locomotives. Final agreement for such funding is expected
in early 1991. There would be slippage in the
implementation of this component if funds are not secured
on time.



- 28 -
(c)       Northern Reaion Pilot Scheme
The candidate villages and project roads were agreed in
consultation with local NGOs and were confirmed during
negotiations. With funding from TRP-1, all pilot project
road links have been studied with preliminary engineering
design. Contracting, based on limited local competitive
bidding, open to contractors trained under the labor-based
program, has been agreed upon in principle. Draft
contracts between DFR and NGOs have been agreed. Pilot
project implementation will be supported through technical
assistance under the project.
S. Procurement
3.37      The procurement arrangements are as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurment a)
(IDA shares in parenthesn)
(USS million)
Part Comuonont             ICe       LCB      Other    NA b)   Total
1.  ClviI Works           65.1      21.4       0.9    61.6      129.0
(47.0)   (13.1)    (08)    (0 0)    (6)
2.  Equipment, Spare Parts  138      1.6       2.9    58.9       77.1
Vehicles and Materials  (12.6)    (1.2)  (2.4)   (0.0)    (10.2)
S.  Consulting Services,
Technical Assistance  0.0       0.0      19.3     2.2       21.6
and Training          (0.0)    (0.0)    (18.9)   (0.0)    (18.9)
4.  Total Project          68.9     22.9      23.1   112.7      227.6
(59.0)   (14.3)    (22.1)   (0.0)    (96.0)
a) Additional details are presented In Annex 8.13
b) Not applicable (includes bilateral donors and itms fully funded by WC0)
3.38      All procurement activities of the project will be coordinated by
MRH and MTC. Co-financing components under the project will be procured on
a parallel-financing basis and will follow the applicable guidelines of the
respective financing agency involved. Goods and civil works contracts
financed by IDA will be carried out in accordance with IDA procurement
guidelines. Consultants for engineering designs, civil works contract
supervision, studies, and training will be appointed following the relevant
IDA guidelines. During negotiations the Government agreed that all
procurement through ICB under the credit will be exempt from pre-shipment
price inspection by the Government nominated Inspection Agency.
3.39      Contracts for civil works estimated to cost individually more
than US$1 million and for goods more than US$300,000 will be procured by
ICB. Civil works estimated to cost less than US$l million and goods valued



-29-
from US$60,000 to US$300,000 would be procured by LCB procedures which will
include local advertising, public opening, clearly stated evaluation
criteria and award given to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder and non-
exclusion of foreign bidders if they wish to participate in bidding. The
first LCB document will be reviewed by the Bank before it is released to
the bidders. For the civil works under LCB the contract values are
relatively small, and the works are scattered geographically over different
regions spaced over a period of four years. About 30 contracts of the
average value of US$0.5 m are expected under LCB. Adequate competition is
expected under LCB as there are a sufficient number of qualified local
contractors. The maximum IDA disbursement for civil works under LCB will
be limited to US$13.1 m and for goods up to US$1.2 m. Goods valued at less
than US$60,000 per contract, up to an aggregate value of US$1.8 m will be
procured by competitive shopping based on at least three quotations. Spare
parts and accessories which are of proprietary nature may be purchased,
with prior agreement with IDA, under directly negotiated contracts from
original manufacturers/suppliers or their authorized agents, within an
aggregate value of US$0.6 m. For supply of housing units under the
incentive program, direct contracting with existing housing corporations
will be allowed, based on established and published market rates, and with
prior IDA consent, up to a maximum aggregate value of US$0.6 m. Consistent
with the social objectives of the project of employment generation,
training and self-help activities, especially for women, under the Northern
Region Pilot Scheme, procurement for road works under the labor-intensive
contracts, and items like tree-planting and lining for hand-dug wells
contracted to NGOs, up to a maximum aggregate value of US$1.9 million, will
be procured as follows:
(a)    for tree-planting and other environmental components, within an
aggregate value of US$200,000 spread over three years, by direct
contract to the two local NGOs which are participating in the
program; contracts will be based on unit prices per tree-planted
(and other relevant unit costs for other items) with prices
established by DFR based on prevailing costs in consultation with
the Bank, and payments based on work certified by the resident
manager (para 3.35);
(b)    for lining of hand-dug wells, within an aggregate value of
US$100,000, spread over three years, by direct contract with the
two participating NGOs, based on unit costs established by DFR in
consultation with the Bank; and
(c)    for the feeder roads program, within an aggregate value of
US$1.6 m equivalent work will be awarded under LCB; about 4
contracts over a 3-year period may be involved, and individual
contracts will not exceed US$0.4 m each. In view of the special
design features of this component involving NGOs and labor-
intensive methods (see Annex 3-10), the bid documents will
specify that: (i) the bidders should have received training
under DFR's labor-intensive road rehabilitation training program
sponsored by IDA and ILO, or should have past experience in
similar works, and should have the appropriate light equipment;



-30-
(ii) the work will be done by labor-intensive methods, following
methods specified in the bid document- (iii) unskilled labor for
the works will be provided by one of the two local NGOs-
specified, under a sub-contract between the contractor and NGO,
the majority of the workers being drawn from women from local
villages; the contractor will have authority to reject any
workers provided for disciplinary reasons. The labor will be
directly paid by the contractor, at market rates. A draft sub-
contract with the NGOs will be available as part of the bid
documents which will become part of the final contract
documents.
3.40       Bidders will be pre-qualified for ICB procurement of road,
bridge and railway works, for all contracts individually exceeding US$5.0
million.  Goods manufactured locally with value added of more than 202 will
be given a preference margin of up to 15? or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is less. Domestic contractors will have a 7.5X preference for
civil works contract under ICB. Procurement documentation for all
transactions under IDA financing in excess of US$200,000 equivalent will be
subject to prior review by IDA. It is estimated that 85Z of the IDA-
financed procurement will be subject to prior review. During negotiations
Government's agreement was obtained to all procurement procedures.
F. Disbursements
3.41            The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December
31, 1995. The IDA credit would be disbursed against the following
categories.
Allocation and Dtsbursement of IDA Credit
Percentage
IDA Amount         of Expenditure
Category                              (USS Mlillion)     to be financed
I.  GHA - Road Program
(a) Civil works
54.8               100% of foreign
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
(b) Equipment, materials and vehicles      8.8               100% of foreign
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
(c) Consultants' services, auditing
services and training                8.6               100%
II. URN - Institutional Support
(a) Provision of office facilities
(civil works)                        0.3               90X
(b) Equipment, materials and vehicles      0.3               100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(c) Consultants' services, auditing



_ 31 -
s.rvicos, studlis, and training       a.1                100%
(d) Operating costs                         0.8                100%
III. ERC - Raltway RehabIlitation
(b) Civi  work*s                            3.6                 10  of foreign
expenditures *nd 90X
of local expenditures
(a) Equipment, materials and vehicles       s.6                lo% of foroign
expenditures and 90X
of loQl expenditures
(c) Consultants' services, auditing
services, and training                4.8                100%
IV. MTC - Institutional Support to
Transport Sector
(a) Provision of office facilities
(c;v; I works)                        0.4                l00 of forotgn
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures.
(b) Equipment, materials, and vehicles      1.2                1I0% of forelsn
expenditures, and
90X of local
expenditures
(c) Consultants' services, auditing
services, studies, training
and seminars                          1.8                100X
(d) Operating costs                         0.1                 100%
V.  DFR - Pilot Scheme
(a) Civil works including tree-planting
and other environmental works         1.8                95%
(b) Equipment, materials and vehicles       0.8 S08%
xc) Consultnts' services, auditing services,
training and other components
supporting NGOs/women                 0.3                100X
(d) Operating costs                         0.1                 100%
TOTAL                                  98 0
3.42      The disbursement schedule (Annex 3-14) is based on the
implementation schedule. The larger disbursements in the earlier part of
the project period reflects disbursement against the three-year time slice
of the trunk road stabilization program in 1991/93. Special Accounts for
IDA funds will be established in a commercial bank authorized to deal in
foreign currency and operated as follows: (i) for road and bridge
components, managed by PMU; (ii) for railway components, managed by GRC;
and (iii) for all MTC related components, managed by MTC. The local
currency contributions will be available from the Road Fund and from
Government's other budgetary allocations. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to: (a) cause MRH and MTC to present to the Association
annual and quarterly estimates of their project expenditures one month
prior to the start of each year; and (b) provide MRH, GRA, DFR, MTC and GRC



_ 32 -
with the funds to meet their expenditure needs adequately, and in a timely
manner.
3.43     An advance not exceeding US$3.5 million will be made to the
Special Accounts which should be opened within one month after the
declaration of credit effectiveness or earlier. The advances to individual
Special Accounts will be as followst (a) PMU: US$2.0 m, for GHA, MRH and
DFR components, (b) GRC: US$0.6 m, (c) RTC: US$0.3 m. The Special Accounts
would cover all categories of expenditures, and will be replenished on the
basis of application for reimbursements made by the respective managing
units together with relevant supporting documents and bank statements.
Reimbursement requests will be submitted to IDA on a monthly basis
irrespective of the-amounts involved. IDA approved and eligible contracts
fore (a) civil works less than US$200,000 equivalent; (b) goods less than
US$50,000 equivalent, and (c) consultancy contracts, training programs,
studies and courses less than US$50,000 equivalent will be disbursed on the
basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). The entities which have the
Special Accounts will manage all accounting records, but the preparation of
supporting documents or SOEs would be the responsibility of the respective
spending agency. During negotiations, the foregoing was agreed. It was
also agreed that retroactive financing up to US$1.0 million equivalent will
be allowed under the credit, on account of project-related payments made
after October 1, 1990.
G.        Accounting and Auditing
3.44      Each agency will establish separate accounts for its particular
components in accordance with accepted accounting principles, to record all
project expenditures and to maintain records on commitments, reimbursements
and the status of project funds. With respect to the amount withdrawn on
the basis of SOEs, each agency will prepare and maintain records such as
contracts, invoices, and evidence of payments readily available for
inspection.
3.45     At negotiations, it was agreed that external auditors acceptable
to the Association will carry out audits of the Special Accounts, Project
Accounts including SOEs, and MTC and PMU accounting records, and provide
the audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
The accounting, costing, budgeting and internal auditing systems are well
established at GRA, and the PMU has a well established accounting system to
monitor the road component. Likewise, the Railway Rehabilitation Project
and TRP-l helped GRC to set up an adequate project accounting system.
Nevertheless, the accounting and auditing of GRC is an area of concern, in
the sense of delays in timely completion. This is partly because GRC had
to cope with past backlogs. Accounts for 1988 were completed and submitted
for audit in June 1990, and the audit is expected to be completed by
December, 1990. 1989 accounts are expected to be completed and submitted
for audit in December, 1990. A condition of disbursement for the railway
component is that GRC present to IDA for its review its audited financial
statements for fiscal years 1988 to 1989.   During negotiations, agreement
was reached that auditing of GRC's financial statements for f'scal year
1990 should be completed not later than June 30, 1991. Local banks are
adequately audited by external auditors.



.33---
H.        Renorting and Monitorina
3.46      PMU in the MRI and the Planning Implementation Division (PID) in
the MTO will prepare consolidated quarterly reports, based on progress
reports submitted by their respective agencies. During negotiations it was
agreed that PMU and PID would furnish to IDA for its approval, before June
30, 1991, reporting requirements and key indicators for monitoring progress
of the project. In addition, MTC will prepare a semi-annual report
highlighting progress in meeting Government's reform measures, and general
policy and institutional changes that affect the sector. Within six months
of the completion of the project, the Borrower through HRE and MTC will
prepare a consolidated project completion report.
I.        Environmental Impact
3.47      The project is not likely to have any significant adverse effects
on the environment as it will involve primarily periodic road maintenance
operations as well as strengthening existing road and transport
institutions. No new construction of infrastructure facilities will be
undertaken. Negative environmental impacts such as dust, noise, detours,
traffic delays, spoil materials, fumes etc. will relate to construction
activities and will be only of short-term duration. Positive environmental
impacts of a long-term nature will be achieved due to improved traffic
safety on the project roads and improved accessibility to adjacent lands.
The Northern Region Pilot Scheme has components designed to improve rural
environment through tree-planting alongside roads, village woodlots and
other measures. It is not expected that existing land use patterns will
change substantially due to improving the riding quality of roads. A more
detailed analysis of the environmental impact of the project is given in
Annex 3-15.
IV. FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF GRC
4.01     GRC's financial performance during the period 1983-1986 was
unsatisfactory.   However, with the completion of the First Railway
Rehabilitation Project (CR No. 1170-GH) and improvement in traffic, its
1987 losses were lower than in previous years. Beginning in 1986, tariffs
were raised substantially and improved management practices were
introduced. This led to improvements in GRC's financial situation during
1987-1988. Working ratios decreased from a high of 211 in 1986 to 121 in
1988. However, the situation began to deteriorate in 1989 due primarily to
the shortage of locomotive capacity to carry additional traffic (see para
2.32). This caused the working ratio in 1989 to increase to about 124.
The financial improvements in 1983-1986 were due to good progress in
rehabilitating the Western Line on which freight increased by 432 in 1986,
322 in 1987, and 27Z in 1988. In 1989, freight increases were marginal
(2.4Z) as compared to the previous year. Notwithstanding the recent
traffic improvements, GRC's financial situation remains below expectations
due to excessive liability for payment of end-of-service benefits to staff
retiring under the Staff Reduction Plan, and continued drain on GRC's



_ 34  _       -
resources on the Central and Eastern lines (mainly staff costs), which will
become operational only after ongoing rehabilitation is completed. Other
principal contributory factors are:
(a) the shortage of motive power, due principally to the fact
that the locomotive fleet is aging rapidly and the new
locomotives scheduled for 1986-88 were not provided, and a
consequent shortfall in traffic compared to SAR targets;
(b) cuts in passenger services and the inadequacy of passenger
tariffs; and
(c) increases in wages and cost of other inputs coupled with
GRC's inability to cover them through higher tariffs due to
the traffic shortfall.
4.02      Financial projections (see Annex 4) are predicated on a strategy
toward financial viability that include three main components:
(a) minimizing working expenses, principally in the area of staff
costs, where any increase of wages in real terms would come from
savings due to a reduction in the total number of staff and to
increased productivity;
(b) timely adjustments of tariffs to recover increased costs; and
(c) eliminating the present subsidy from the Government by recovering
full costs for hauling bauxite and manganese, and improving
traffic.
4.03      Financial projections have been made on the assumption that GRC
would continue taking measures during the project implementation period to:
(a) improve its financial performance to permit internal generation
of funds sufficient to cover all its operating expenses; and
(b) cover debt service without the need of Government subsidies
beyond 1994.
These steps will form part of the Performance Agreement (Contract Plan).
In September 1989, GRC increased tariffs for bauxite from C¢4.50 to C¢8.27
ton-km and increased fares for passengers from C¢1.06 to Cr2.00 pass/km.
These increases will strengthen GRC finances by bringing these charges more
in line with real costs.
4.04      The financial projections assume recovery of traffic on the
Central and Eastern Lines and continued traffic growth on the Western Line
from 770,000 tons in 1989 to 1.52 million tons in 1995, as well as
reduction of personnel from the present level of 6,850 to 6,000 by 1995.
Consistent with these projections and in view of the need to reduce all GRC
expenses, during negotiations, agreement was reached that GRC will:



- 35
(a) take all necessary measures to attain a working ratio of no more
than 1612  in 1991, to be reduced every year to attain a ratio of
142? in 1992 assuming that additional locomotives become
available, 972 in 1993; 81Z in 1994; and 761 from 1995 onward;
and
(b) maintain a debt equity ratio of no more than 55145 from 1995
onward; to obtain prior agreement from the Association to
increase its long-term debt if as a result of that debt, the debt
service coverage ratio would be less than 1.5 during the term of
the debt, to update annually by indexation the fixed assets that
were revaluated in 1988.
4.05      To further meet financial viability objectives, during
negotiations, GRC agreed to:
(a) reduce staff every year as outlined in paragraph 4.04, and
paragraph 2.31;
(b) revise the tariff structure each fiscal year to take into account
the cost of services and market conditions, not later than
October 31 of each year, based on the cost accounting system
implemented in 1988; and introduce no later than January 1, and
each year tariff increases (if necessary) in real terms for all
traffic (cocoa, timber, petroleum, general cargo and passengers)
to ensure compliance with the agreed financial covenants as
detailed in paragraph 4.04; and
(c) revise tariffs for passenger traffic on the Western Line to cover
1002 of its variable costs in 1991 and 1992 (excluding
depreciation) and, starting in 1993, cover a proportion of its
fixed costs as well, namely 142 in 1993, 192 in 1994, 26Z in 1995
and 302 in 1996 and the years thereafter; revise tariffs for
passenger traffic on the Central and Eastern Lines to cover 100X
of its variable costs in 1994 and 1995 (excluding depreciation)
and, starting in 1996, cover a proportion of its fixed costs as
well, namely 142 in 1996, 192 in 1997, 262 in 1998 and 302 in
1999 and the years thereafter.
4.06      In support of timely implementation of the foregoing operational
improvements, GRC agreed during negotiations on:
(a) a list of monitoring targets (Annex 4, Attachments) for semi-
annual reviews between the Association and GRC. The reviews will
take place before May 31 of each fiscal year to ascertain if GRC
would meet the agreed targets in respect of such years.   Before
October 31 of each fiscal year, GRC will review the possibility
of meeting the agreed targets of the next following year. During
these reviews, GRC and the Association will evaluate the progress
made in attaining the targets and determine any corrective action
that might need to be taken; and



*        _~~ 36 -
(b) before May 31 and October 31 of each year GRC will continue to
furnish to the Association for its review and agreements
Mi) its investment plan, financial projections and monitoring
targets for the current year and the following three yearst
and reasons for failure to reach the targets; and
(ii) specific measures, as necessary, including adjustment to
tariffs, cost saving measures and enhancement of operational
measures, to attain fully the agreed performance and
financial targets. These targets will be incorporated into
the annual Performance Agreement.
4.07     Delay in the payment of end-of-service benefits to staff is
likely to affect the staff reduction targets approved by the World Bank.
The benefit accruing from staff reduction will be immediate in the shape of
lower staff costs and consequent reduction in subvention in the following
years. To complement the actions that would be taken by GRC, the
Government agreed during negotiations to provides
(a) GRC with sufficient funds in a timely manner to cover its share
of required counterpart funds for capital expenditures for each
quarter before the end of each quarter, and operations subsidies
(including an extraordinary subsidy to help GRC pay off excess
personnel in order to meet established staffing targets); and
(b) a subsidy for freight and passenger traffic, where, and to the
extent, GRC cannot charge, due to public policy decisions.
adequate tariffs based on full rail costs.
(c) as noted in para 2.32, the Government also agreed to provide the
annual foreign exchange of US$1.5 million equivalent needed for
railway spare parts for maintenance for the years 1991-92, all in
accordance with the targeted financial objectives. The
Government will provide these funds in quarterly installments.
Sensitivity Analysis
4.08      The financial projections discussed in paragraph 4.06 assume that
locomotive availability will improve from mid-1992, increasing GRC's
capacity to haul traffic. A sensitivity analysis has been made assuming
one year's delay in the improvement of locomotive availability (to mid-
1993). This will cause a year's time lag in the assumed traffic growth
into 1993, the traffic from 1994 remaining unaffected. This would in turn
increase the financing gap that will have to be covered by Government
subsidy during 1991 and 1993, by about cedis 1,200 million. The vorking
ratios and operating ratios under this scenario will be worse in 1991-93,
(compared to the base case, see paragraph 4.04), as follows:
Years (C)             1991      92       93     94     95
Working Ratios (Z)      160     161     142     82      78
Operating Ratios (X)   186      197     182     97      93



_ 37 -
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Proiect Benefits
5.01      The main benefit of the project will be a more efficient and
cost-effective transport system that will permit a higher level of economic
activity in the country. The project will remove physical constraints in
transport, reduce transport costs for goods and passengers, and will
effectively stimulate exports, farm production and marketing, and the
mobility of people. The project would also improve transport sector
management through increased participation of the private sector and
increased reliance on market orientation, and help develop a responsive
institutional structure.
5.02      The economic return calculations presented here are based on
quantifiable benefits, mainly transport cost savings, due to road and rail
improvements. In addition, the project will produce substantial other
benefits which are difficult to quantify, but will also directly contribute
to improved consumer welfare and poverty alleviation. Some of these
unquantifiable benefits are discussed below.
5.03      Promotion of low-cost roads and more sustainable and affordable
low-cost forms of transport under the NRPS will particularly assist the
poor in reducing transport costs, in improving farm productivity and in
reducing head porterage which is a burden generally carried by women and
children. This pilot project will help alleviate rural poverty, and raise
the living standards of rural women, by increased earnings, savings and
various self-help community improvement activities. It will also provide a
model for social development and environmental improvements, primarily
based on self-help. The project will also provide a replicable method for
working through grass-root NGOs and women's groups for reducing rural
poverty. The road safety improvements under the project will help reduce
the high rate of road accidents and fatalities. The project will assist in
creating employment both directly in road works, and indirectly through
expansion of farming and other economic activities.
Economic Return and Sensitivity
5.04      The project yields high economic returns, as presented in detail
in Annex 5. The overall economic rate of return (ERR) on the roads,
bridges, railways and the NRPS is about 38Z.
5.05      The Periodic Maintenance Program for trunk roads is estimated to
yield an ERR of about 452, based on traffic and road condition data on the
selected road sections. Some road sections still need to be selected and
they may have lower ERRs. During negotiations, it was agreed with the
Government that the minimum ERR on any section of trunk roads selected for
the project will be 152. The main quantified benefits are the vehicle
operating costs (VOC) saved due to road improvements. The cost-benefit
analysis has been based on the World Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance



-38-
Model (1DM III), as applied by GHA's Planning Department to the Ghana road
system. The high ERR reflects the poor condition of existing roads and the
high VOC in operating on such roads. Benefits from project investments on
routine maintenance equipment (2.4% of project costs) have not been
quantified, while these costs are included in the periodic maintenance
component.
5.06      In the case of the rural access needs in Ghana's north, the work
involved is mainly restoring access to villages through upgrading and
rehabilitating of 150 km of rural access roads and provision of low cost
IMT. Benefits include avoided higher cost of head-loading, and some gains
in farm output and profitability. Estimates based mainly on the road
component's benefits indicate an ERR of 25%.
5.07      The Bridge Rehabilitation Program is a continuation of the bridge
program started under the RRMP and continued under TRP-l. For the program
as a whole, consultants have estimated an ERR exceeding 1002; a more
conservative estimate is about 702. The return is high since the bridges
have already failed or are about to fail, and the detouring costs to
traffic are substantial compared to the relatively small investment in
rehabilitating the bridges.
5.08      The Railway Rehabilitation Program will produce an ERR of about
29X. Overall rail investments include system-wide investments in
locomotives, rolling stock and parts benefiting mainly the Western Line;
most of these rolling stock investments are for replacement of existing
worn-out equipment. The main quantified benefits are avoided road
transport costs that, in the absence of the project, would have been
necessary to carry part of the Western Line share of the estimated rail
traffic. Because of the overlapping nature of TRP-l and TRP-2 investments
for GRC, they have been considered together as joint investments, producing
joint benefits.
5.09      Sensitivity tests show that if traffic levels and project
benefits were about 20% less than estimated, or if costs were higher by
20%, the ERR for the trunk road stabilization program would still be around
36%. Cost and benefit variations beyond this range are considered
unlikely. In the case of railway rehabilitation, a 20% increase in costs
will reduce the ERR to 15Z, and a 20% decrease in traffic, considered in
the worst-case scenario, would reduce the ERR to 12?. A delay of one-year
in improving locomotive capacity (from mid-1992 to mid-1993 -- see para
4.08) will reduce ERR from rail components to 25%.   Many social benefits
from passenger traffic and avoidance of the collapse of the railway system
are not included in the estimate of benefits. Traffic is obviously a
critical factor in the case of the railway. Traffic projections used are
conservative, based on recent Bank projections, and the estimate of rail
share is based on detailed origin/destination studies, comparative
transport costs (both financial and economic) between road and railways,
and strong customer preference. By all economic and financial criteria,
the railway has a competitive advantage in carrying the forecasted rail
traffic, provided it has the physical and operational capacity to do so,
and a dynamic and commercially responsive management to restore customer



_39 _
confidence, service reliability and efficiency; all of this are in the
process of being achieved.
Project Risks
5.10      There are no significant risks associated with implementation of
the physical components of the project. The main areas of project risks
are: (a) for the railwaY, securing cofinancing for urgent replacement and
overhaul of locomotives, and provision by the Government of timely release
of funds for purchase of essential maintenance imports during 1991-92; and
(b) for periodic road maintenance and rehabilitation, assuring the adequate
level and flow of local funds from the Government, and avoiding delays in
Government's procurement decisions, particularly in awarding major
contracts.
5.11      Risks under (a) will be minimized by the credit covenant that no
IDA disbursement from the credit for GRC will take place unless financing
agreements for the new and rebuilt locomotives have been signed (see para
2.32). A sensitivity analysis shows that if improvement in locomotive
availability is delayed by one year (to mid-1993), GRC will carry less than
projected traffic in 1991-93, but the project's railway component would
still yield an acceptable ERR. The fact that the Alsthom-Cat locomotives
being proposed under the CCCE cofinancing package have not been tried out
in Africa is a another risk factor affecting railways, but this is
substantially minimized by a 4-year service agreement which is included in
this package. Risks under (b) are minimized by Government assurances to
continue the Road Fund and to make monthly releases from it, as well as
prompt releases of other budget funds as needed; these assurances have
worked well under TRP-1 (para 2.20).  To reduce project implementation
delays, Government assurances have been obtained to streamline the
procurement clearance process; such procedural reforms are also being
sought separately through IDA's structural adjustment discussions with GOG.
The economic return from the project is high (38Z), and will remain good
even with some project delays. Overall, project risks appear moderate and
acceptable.
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      In addition to standard covenants, the following matters were
agreed with the Government, (GRC. MTC and/or GHA):
(i)       GHA to agree with IDA before June 30, 1991, on a staff
reduction plan up to 1994, and implement some of it (see
para 2.10);
(ii)      the availability of local and foreign funding (para 2.19);
(iii)     (a) to maintain the Road Fund at least at its 1989 funding
level in real terms; (b) utilize Road Fund proceeds only for
payment to contractors doing periodic maintenance and
related works and to GHA's Mobile Maintenance Unit; (c) to
allocate a minimum of US$36 million, US$38 million, and



- 40
US$39 million equivalent annually from the Road Fund and
capital budget for the periodlc road maintenance program
during 1991, 1992 and 1993 respectively; (d) to allocate
annually US$6.5 million equivalent from recurrent budget for
routine maintenance materials, and (e) to release Road Fund
accruals monthly, and other budget allocations as needed
(para 2.20);
(iv)     to progressively increase cost-recovery from road users so
that full cost recovery is achieved by 1994, in the light of
a study to be reviewed with IDA by June 30, 1992 (para
2.21);
(V)      Oovernment to review with the Bank before December 31, 1992,
findings of the Public Passenger Transport Study, and to
agree on an action plan to be implemented thereafter (para
2.24);
(vi)     to continue the functioning of the Transport Policy Review
Committee, in accordance with TOR acceptable to IDA (para
2.26);
(vii)    to organize a coordinating committee, before June 30, 1991,
for urban transport among MTC, Accra Metropolitan Authority,
MRH, DUR and private vehicle owner associations (para 2.27);
(viii)    (a) to continue at least up to 1995 the practice of annual
performance agreements to be signed between GOG and GRC,
incorporating agreed targets; and (b) to meet the
performance targets up to 1995 as shown in Annex 2-11,
including a revised staff reduction plan through 1995 to be
agreed by June 31, 1991 (para 2.31);
ix)      to continue providing US$1.5 million equivalent to GRC
annually for 1991-92 for purchase of spares, the amount to
be released quarterly, in advance, subject to GRC providing
proof of spending commitment in the following six months
(para 2.32);
(x)      to continue consultations with IDA on the rolling three year
PIP (para 2.37);
(xi)     GRC will complete the engineering studies on the railway
bridges and complete their strengthening before December 31,
1992 (para 3.13);



-41 _
(xii)    TDU( and AMASCUI(& will sign before June 30, 1991,
subsidiary grant agreements with the Government (para 3.21);
(xiii)    onlending arrangements by the Government to GRC and
responsibility for the foreign exchange risk to be borne by
GIC (para 3.28)s
(xiv)    mid-term project review by December, 1993 (para 3.29).
(xv)     To appoint consultants for PMU before April 1, 1991 (para
3.32).
(Zvi)    MTC will furnish to IDA, before June 30, 1991, copies of its
agreements with local institutions for the training program
(para 3.34);
(xvii)    all procurement through ICB will be exempt from pre-shipment
price inspection by the Government nominated Inspection
Agency (para 3.38);
(xviii)   sizes of contracts for ICB and LCB (para 3.40);
(xix)    MRH  and NTC to present to IDA annual and quarterly estimates
of project expenditures; and to provide  NRH, GHA, DFR, NTC
and GRC the funds to meet their expenditure needs (para
3.42);
(xx)      the operation and management of the Special Accounts (para
3.43);
(xxi)     (a) audits of the Special Accounts and Project Accounts to
be carried out by external auditors; and (b) GRC's audited
financial statements for 1990 will be submitted to IDA six
months after the end of its fiscal year;
(xxii)   reporting requirements and key indicators for monitoring the
progress of the project (para 3.46);
(xxiii)  working ratios and debt equity ratios of GRC (pari 4.04);
(xxiv)    staff reductions, tariff structure revisions, and passenger
tariff increases at GRC (para 4.05);
(xxv)    a list of monitoring targets at GRC for semi-annual review;
and GRC's investment plan, financial projections and
monitoring targets for the current year and the following
three years; and specific measures to attain fully the
agreed performance and financial targets (para 4.06);
(xxvi)    the provision to GRC of sufficient funds in a timely manner
for capital expenditures and end-of-service benefits; and a



=   42 -
traffic subsidy if users cannot pay tariffs based on full
rail costs (para 4.07)t and
(x=vii) the minimum ERR in any trunk road section will be 15? (para
5.05).
6.02      Conditions of Disbursements for the railway component are: (i)
signing of cofinancing agreements for new and rebuilt locomotives (para
2.32); (ii) signing of a satisfactory onlending agreement (para 3.28); and
(iii) the submission to IDA of GRC's audited financial statements for
fiscal years 1988 to 1989 (para 3.45).
6.03      Based on the above agreements, confirmations and conditions, the
project is -suitable for a- credit to the Republic of Ghana of SDRs 69.0
million on standard IDA terms.
AF4IN
November 5, 1990



!!.
REPUBUC OF GHANA
Second Transport Rehabilitation Project
1ansport Sector
Organization Chart
chakmm~M~ ~
MM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
WpySwIy                                          DOpW Swts                       O'   S6It|_ SU
.~  ~    ~    " I                                                     *|                         ''    ,                                  i
Dspulmentd Ru"a IoPX                                                                                                                       .WN** N
FmdwRoe~~~ IIWf~Ct                                                            '., uwao
cw~  ~       ~~~ . 9
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



REPUBUC OF GHANA
Second rnvsport Rehabilitation Project
Ministrf o Roads and Highways
organizatlon Char
I       II.PND                                           .
STAFF  DEPARTMENTS
..  l                                      ii.           . ,,   .    1.~~~~~i
chm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Dor~~~S*  No                               Pem  am                         / 
=vnaw        E                                                  amb
Chid~ ~~~~~U    AhiO                                               '.   .. 
:   l                                                        (   .         ,-   9    'DM  .W



REPUBUC OF GHANA
Second Transport Rehabilitation Projet
Ministry of Transport and Communications
Organizaton Chart
<,                 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I    D@pPNW        8       1                     St"                                ,'
DepWPND OM$"ssa
S ) _F~~~~~~~~~~~,I,xtr ''ndr
It)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(PImu*L.    an  1s
P.RO.sk* n M.N* PAd                                      jn                 |. .
P&T                           Fudget UE,' i
MUtU, ftt
Ra rac.,iw
1.~~~~~~~~V



- 46 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ports, Shipping, Lake Transport and Civil Aviation Sub-sectors
A.   Ports, Shippint and Lake TransPort
1.        Critically needed physical rehabilitation and institutional
restructuring of Ghana's main commercial ports of Tema and Takoradi under
the Ghana Ports and Harbors Authority (GPHA) were initiated in early 1986
under the ongoing Ports Rehabilitation Project which is nearing completion.
The project was designed to prevent further deterioration of Ghana's port
facilities, and to significantly improve productivity of ship handling
operations, to re-organize port agencies and encourage greater private
participation, to strengthen port management and project implementation
explicitly by providing adequate technical assistance, supervision support
and training. Apart from some current and capital dredging, which was not
included in the project due to resource constraints, the 1986 Port
Rehabilitation Project is expected to assure adequate port handling
capacity through the 1990s. Port efficiency and productivity, in terms of
cargo throughput per shift-day, has already gone up by more than 50 percent
since 1983. Port tariffs have been increased by 42 percent over 1985-
1989, and GPHA is fully covering its operating costs and debt service
payments. Cargo throughputs at Tema and Takoradi in recent years are shown
in Table 1.
2.        The national shipping line, Black Star Line (BSL), has operated
unprofitably for years. The Government has stopped subsidizing BSL, except
in meeting past debt obligations for ships bought from Korea. BSL has
recently undertaken drastic reorganization measures, reduced its staff by
65 percent, and sold off its old ships. Further, the Government recently
appointed a new management team, and is actively exploring BSL's joint
operations with interested foreign ship owners, perhaps BSL's only option
for viability and survival. The Public Enterprise Project (PEP) (Annex 2-
13), would provide funding for studies to assess BSL's financial situation
and its corporate restructurinig. In lake transport on the Volta, port and
navigational facilities have been improved through bilateral assistance
from the Federal Republic of Germany. Additionally, the proposed IDA
project for Petroleum Refining and Distribution will provide fuel tankage
and pumping facilities at the lake ports of Akosombo and Buipe, to assist
in petroleum transport across the lake.
B.   Civil AviatiorL
3.        The state-owned Ghana Airways (GH) operates profitably on its
international flights, but cross-subsidizes losses on its domestic
operations. Overall, it produces a nominal profit. A study financed by
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) covered most aspects
of Civil Aviation in Ghana including the feasibility of strengthening
domestic air transport. It concluded that a limited service based on a
turbo-prop aircraft between AccralKumasi/Tamale would be economically



- 47
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 4
justified and estimated that the first part of a staged approach to an
expanded domestic air service would cost US$30 million over three to four
years. The Government is seeking bilateral assistance for this purpose,
and has announced that private operators will be allowed to compete in this
sector.
4.        In 1986, the Government converted its Department of Civil
Aviation into an autonomous body, the Ghana Civil Aviation Authority
(GCAA), to operate and maintain civil airports on a commercial basis. This
agency has yet to establish a proper organizational structure, operational
procedures and financial and project planning. Government is negotiating
with bilateral funding agencies to provide comprehensive management support
services and to provide funds for (a) rehabilitation of navigational aids;
(b) construction of a modern cargo terminal at Kotoka International Airport
(KIA) Accra; and (c) rehabilitation of the KIA runway. These projects are
included under the Government's Public Investment Program (PIP) for 1990-
92, but funding remains uncertain. Other priority needs include
rehabilitation of the KIA terminal building and rehabilitation of other
airports. Table 2 shows air traffic development at KIA in recent years.
Under TRP-1, Government had agreed to complete a financial information
study, and to prepare an outline of a tariff structure and a cost recovery
program to reduce future subsidies. The financial information study has
been completed, but the other studies have been delayed since cofinancing
arrangements for reorganization of GCAA have also been delayed. The Bank
is discussing with the Government a realistic plan for completing the
studies, and an action program for improving cost-recovery levels.
AF4IN
October 1990



-48-
ANNEX 2-4
Page 3 of 4
Table I
REPUBLIC OF GRAM
SECOND TRANSPORTATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cargo Throughout in Ghana's Ports 1970-89
('QO tons)
Tema                           Takoradi            Total
Year    Imorts   E=Dorts   Total      Imports   ExDorts   Total    Freight
1970     1,940      725      2,665       566      2,250    2,816      5,481
1975     2,259      865      3,124       572      1,429    2,001      5,125
1982     2.164      871      3,035       210        417       627     3,662
1983     1,433      473      1,906       193        353       546     2.452
1984     1,412      399      1,811       196        437       633     2,444
1985     1,975      390      2,365       317        581       898     3.263
1986     2,200      674      2,874       191        496       687     3,561
1987     2,405      593      2,998       363        908    1,271      4,269
1988     2,369      657     3,026        454        973    1,427      4,453
1989     2,747      564      3,311       452      1,032    1.484      4,795
Source:  Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority
AF4IN
October 1990'



- 49 -
AM"E 2-4
Page 4 of 4
REPUUC OF GHANA                       TabLe 2
SECOM   E Rve    BerVA11   "OR
Arrivals and DR=rtures of P    nsr  FreIht. ab ma1I
Romoka Znterwn'tion IAl flr- 1988-
198    1961   I962   196         8 194   1985   1966   1967   1986
Moves
Arrivals        1s8   2663   2626   299    2781   290S   2948   8812  8U4
Departures      2719   2706   28    2996   2960   2884   2949   8915   4178
4272   5372   4961   t980    5477   6739  5s96   7727   8111
Passngers
Arrivals      162067  160102  143119 10OW44  158670 142011  171W59 18396  118165
Departures     86796  166841  144979 165299  54S31 147625  169185  181871  182846
246863  866948 288696  876048 318651  29068  848044 265821  246511
Freight (toen")
Arrivals      1749.6  8663.1  8471.7 6917.4  8477.2  9806.9  5240.9  5961.8 4665.9
Departures    1898.6  2127.2  1668.9  1906.6  1724.7 2498.0 8422.0 4084.8  5221.4
8140.4  5900.8 5156.6 7904.0 S21.9 U64.9  8S62. 146.1 1916.4
lail1 (toaen)
Arrival*       721.2  368.4  891.1  2S0.8  320.8  485.9  621.7  484.7  681.5
Deprtures       67.8  140.1  125.1  124.8  460.8  148.1   90.1  156.0  149.6
768.5  498.4   726.2  865.1  698.6  629.0  713.8  584.7  761.0
Source: Ministry ot Transport and Comunications
AF4R
October 1906



- 50 -
ANNEX 2_5
Page . of 2
REP ULIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD NETWORK STATISTICS
Tabl- 1
Distribution of Roads by Surface Type
and Funat70n1  aIss TIcation (kMs
Major       Minor       Town          Feeder
Surface TYe       Primary     Sec.        Sec.        Road           Road.        Total
Portland Concrete    20.1       --                                                  20.6
Asphalt Concrete    S89.1       -           -           -             -            369.1
Surface Treated   1,778.4     1.877.4     1.462.1      501.1           828.0       .937.0
Subtotal Paved    2,163.1     1,877.4     1;462.1      SO1.1           823.6     6,326.7
Gravel            1,691.4     2,251.2     4,822.9      250.7         8,441.6    16,867.8
Earth                -           -           -          -           138184.4    1S.134.4
Total             8,754.5     4,128.6     6,785.0      701.8        21,899.0   38,328.9
Source: Chana:    Report on Status of Planning and Related Activities, October 1989, Anil S.
Shandari (on trunk roads) and DFR Rural Road Sub-sector Strategy Paper
(Draft), July 19S0 (on feeder roads)
Table 2
Distribution of Roads by Ype and Surfae Condition (km.)
(51988)
Good              Fair              Poor             Total
Surface Type        kE       C)      km                  km         )    k
Trunk Roads
Portland Coneret     20.6  (106)      -       (0)        -         (0)       20.6  (160)
Asphalt Concrete    89.6   (98)         8.6   (2)        -         (0)      869.1  (100)
Surface Treated   1,822.9   (24)   2,646.4  (47)        1,644.7    (29)   5,614.0  (10O)
Gravel            1.481.5   (17)   .8843.8  (40)       3.e60.9    (48)   8.42e.2  (190)
Total Trunk Roads 8,185.6   (22)   5,998.7  (42)       5,295.6    (36)  14,429.9  (100)
Feeder Roads 8,162.7   (14)   5,248.6  (24)    13,489.5    (62)  21,899.0  (160)
Total Roads       ,298.8           11,247.5            18,785.1          86,328.9
Source: Ghana:   Report on Status of Planning and Related Activities, October 1989, AnT I S.
Bhandari (on trunk roads) and DFR Rural Roads Sub-sector Strategy Paper
(Draft), July 1990 (on feeder roads).
AF4IN
October 1980



- 51 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD NETWORK STATISTICS
Table 8
Distribution of Trunk Roads by Regton (km*) and
(A) By Functional Classfic ation
Reaoon          Primary     Major       Minor        Town
Sec        Sec          Road         Total
Greater Accra   187.3       78.8       180.1         21.7        487.9
Volta           417.9      713.0       259.5        120.7       1,611.1
Eastern         197.9      667.0       917.3        2168.       1,889.9
Central         174.9      438.0       887.3        128.8       1,408.8
Western         256.0      427.8       787.5         62.0       1,502.4
Ashanti         381.7      874.2       822.          386.1      1,394.8
Brong Ahafo     675.7    5s4.8         839.6         89.5       1,839.1
Northern        855.6      655.0    1,208.7         J1.6        2,790.3
Upper West      435.6      299.8       336.1         20.0       1,091.2
Upper East      288.0        0.0       188.3         56.4         634.7
Total         3,754.5   4,128.6    5,785.0          781.8     14,429.9
(8) By Surface Type
Region                     Paved Roads
===--------------------------       Gravel       Total
PCC    AC         ST    Subtotal
Greater Accra    20.6  20.7        899.8   440.6       27.3        487.9
Volta                    0.0       600.2   600.2    910.9         1,511.1
Eastern                 76.0    1,038.2 1,108.2    781.7          1,889.9
Centrol                 47.3    1,083.6  1,130.9    277.9         1,408.8
Western                181.8       806.2   437.6  1,064.8        1,602.3
Ashanti                 94.8       783.4   878.2    518.4         1,384.6
Brong                    0.0       716.6   715.6  1,123.5         1,839.1
Northern                .00        588.8   588.8  2,261.6        2,790.3
Upper West               0.0        10.1    10.1  1,081.1         1,091.2
Upper East               0.0       143.6   143.6    391.1          634.7
Total            20.6  889.1    5,614.0  6,008.2   8,428.2      14,429.9
Source: Chana: Report on Status of Planning and Related Activities, October
1989, Anil S. Shandart.
AF4IN
October 1990



-52- -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Status of On-Going RRMP and TRP-1
(Credits 1601-GH. A-lGH. 1601-1GH and 1858-GH)
I. load Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RUMP)
A, General
1.       The objectives of the project were:
a.    to strengthen the road agencies under MRH and revitalize road
maintenance operations through support of increased private sector
participation, and the introduction of improved management in GHA
and DFR. coupled with staff incentives and systematic training
programs;
b.    to reduce transport costs and protect Ghana's large past and
future investments in the road sub-sector through improved
maintenance;
C.    to rehabilitate part of the most important trunk roads in the
country;
d.    to foster the rehabilitation and recovery of the agricultural
sector mainly through improved feeder roads maintenance;
e.    to improve transport planning and to reorient transport investment
through careful selection of high priority investments and
increased emphasis on rehabilitation and maintenance; and
f.    to assist in the rationalization of transport policies, including
adjustment of road user charges, thus ensuring better mobilization
and utilization of resources.
2.       The.SAR estimated total project cost was US$ 121.85 m and the
financing plan consisted of:
(a) IDA                   US$40.00 m;
(b) Japan Govt.           US$ 2.00 m;
(c) UNDP                  US$ 1.36 m;
(d) ADB                   US$18.18 m;
(e) WFP                   US$ 8.10 m;
(f) Government of Ghana   US$35.10 m;
(g) Duty and Tax          US$17.11 m.



-53-
ANNEX 2-6
Page 2 of 9
3.       IDA increased the funding for the project through the Africa
Facility from US$40.0 m to a total of SDRSO.5 m to replace the foreign
component of funds initially proposed in the SAR to be provided by the
Government, as well as cover the reduction in US$ value of the SDR due to
periodic changes in exchange rates.
B. Imnlementation Status
4.       ProRress Statues  The RRNP is almost completed and the undisbursed
balances of IDA funds of SDR6.49 m (14 percent of the total) ind the
Japanese Grant of Yen 312.67?m (45 percent of-Yen 700.0-m) are expected to
be fully disbursed within the present Closing Dates of 06130191 and
09130190 respectively. Overall, the progress of the project is very good
and the project is rated as a "no problem, project.
5.       Physical Works: Out of the total SAR estimated 4,120 km, a total
of 3,645 km (88 percent) of periodic maintenance have been completed and 14
bridges (100 percent of planned) were rehabilitated. Based on GHA figures,
total expenditure to date was 06,722 m for periodic maintenance works.
During the RRMP implementation period, an additional 720 km have received
major rehabilitation at a total cost of ¢22,141 m, mostly financed through
GOG's infrastructure development budget. Most of the periodic maintenance
and some of the bridge works were carried out by local contractors who,
under the project, were given loans to purchase equipment and spare parts
on an on-lending arrangement through the Ghana Bank of Housing and
Construction (BHC).
6.       Training:  The objectives of the training program were to
strengthen the institutional capability of GHA to prepare, implement and
supervise training courses to improve the skills of maintenance personnel
of GHA and DFR at all levels. The program was designed to train some 1600
GHA/DFR maintenance engineers. road superintendents, foremen, equipment
operators, drivers, mechanics, storekeepers and cost clerks engaged in road
and equipment maintenance. The training program was supported by two
consultants, one for road work and the second for mechanical personnel.
During the period of 1987 to 1989, a total of 1866 personnel (117 percent
of planned) have been trained. The training was provided mostly by GHA's
Shai Hills Training Center, and the Road Training and Production Unit
(RTPU), and the Mechanical Training and Production Unit (MTPU) (one each)
established under the project. The two TPU's could have trained more staff
had they been given sufficient operating funds and had sufficient training
facilities been provided on time. The consultant services for the training
of mechanics was more successful than that for civil works. Funds for the
training program were provided by IDA, CIDA of Canada, EEC and the Japanese
Government.
7.       Consultant Services and Technical Assistance:  GRA and DPR engaged
these services in good time. Performance of the technical assistance for
workshop and stores management; strengthening the planning and budgeting
unit in MRH and GEA; planning and project execution for DFR; project
management unit; and consultant services for engineering design were
successful.



-54 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 3 of 9
8.       Local Contractors:  There are about 400 local contractors
registered as class "Al and "B". Class *A" contractors are registered for
roads, airports and related structures and class "B" contractors for
bridges, culverts and other structures. The project provided funds for
acquisition of equipment, spare parts and other inputs to be made available
to contractors, quarry operators and Plant Pool, with sub-loans from BHC.
About 45 contractors working for GHAIDFR have been provided loans for
purchase of equipment and spare parts under the project. out of the 400
registered local contractors, about 12 contractors could be developed to
undertake larger and more complex projects eventuallv to a stage when they
could compete with large international contractors for ICB bids. Under the
project, some 45 local contractors have carried out LCB contracts most of
which had a value of about ¢100 m (US$320,000).  The local contractors are
doing good quality work on regravelling but are having problems in
attaining. quality on resealing and resurfacing of paved roads, and in
completing works within the contract time. The main problems are related
to the level of education and experience of the company owners, unbalanced
manpower force and equipment fleet, inability to effectively utilize the
available resources and shortage of operating funds.
9.       Present and future work loads will be too small to fully employ
all of the registered local contractors. Future Government effort will
need to focus on selected good performing contractors and by providing them
with needed inputs so that they compete for larger ICB contracts. The
remaining contractors could continue to participate in small and scattered
periodic and routine maintenance works with less complex contract
documents, and where appropriate they could merge with larger contractors,
or work as sub-contractors both for large local and international
contractors.
10.      Feeder Roads Program:  The three-year pilot feeder roads program
was based on a study prepared by DFR with assistance of consultants and the
ILO. All work was carried out by local contractors and force account using
labor intensive methods. Equipment was provided to the labor based
contractors through sub-loans by BHC or through rental arrangement with
Plant Pool. The feeder roads program included:
(a)   rehabilitating about 240 km of feeder roads in Sefwi-Wiawso
district;
(b)   spot improvements along 700 km and routine maintenance of 2,000 km
in the Western, Ashanti and Brong Ahafo region; and
(c)   strengthening DFR's planning and maintenance capacity.
11.      The Feeder Roads Project is considered a success story and has
received international attention in promoting the use of labor-intensive
methods. Under the project, 195 management and supervisory staff from
29 contracting firms and DFR have been trained in labor-based technology.
Contractors were provided appropriate equipment and hand tools and they
were guided by the training teams established under DFR for the purpose.



-55-
ANNEX 2-6
Page 4 of 9
The objective was to develop each of these contractors to do an average of
2 km per month and up to now an average of 1.4 km per month has been
achieved. During the training, a total of 184 km of feeder roads were
rehabilitated. The average per km cost was about ¢3.04 m (about
US$10.000lkm). Based on DFR's assessment report, some 470,000 man-days of
employment were created during the project period and 0144.48 m
(US$465,000) has been paid to workers engaged in the execution of the
works. The Government attaches significant importance to the creation of
jobs locally as well as to the dissemination of experience in road works to
the local communities. This program is being replicated in Ghana, and ILO
and other UN agencies are using a paper on this as a model for training
projects.
II.  Transtort Rehabilitation Project (TRP-1)
A.  General
12.      Though TRP-1 focussed on a two-year slice (1988-89) of the trunk
road stabilization program, it is effectively being implemented over the
1988-91 period, due to a delayed start, procurement delays, construction
time-lags and funding problems (see para 2.17). Slow disbursement under
TIP-i was due to: (i) initial delays in preparing, for the first time in
Ghana, standard bidding documents for ICB and LCB, which have since been
completed and successfully used; and (ii) Government's decision to keep IDA
funds for ICB contracts so as to attract foreign contractors, utilizing the
Government's own funds for LCB contracts already completed under the
project. All civil works contracts under ICB were awarded to foreign
contractors in June and August 1990 and disbursements are picking up fast.
They are expected to quickly catch up so as to reach SAR targets in 1991.
13.     The main objectives of TRP-l were to sustain and help consolidate
the momentum of Ghana's economic recovery program by:
a.    removing physical bottlenecks to the expansion of exports, farm
production and labor mobility through better maintenance and
further rehabilitation of the transport infrastructure;
b.    raising the efficiency of the transport sector through
i) promotion of market-oriented policies, ii) increasing
involvement of the private sector, iii) strengthening transport
institutions, and iv) improving productivity;
c.    facilitating rural transport by promoting appropriate low-cost
technology; and
d.    reducing transportation costs for both goods and passengers.
14.     The total project cost as estimated in the SAR was US$213.79 m and
the financing plan was composed of:



- 56 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page S of 9
(al IDA                          US$60.00 m;
(b) Private Sector               US$ 0.77 m4;
(c) Italy                        US$29.57 m;
(d) Other Cofinanciers           US$68.16 m;
(e) CIDA                         USS 2.84 m;
(f) Ghana Government             US$30.87 m.
(g) Duty and Tax                 US$21.58 m.
15.     Some of the funds expected from other co-financiers have not
materialized (for part of the road program, and for railway locomotives).
B. Road Comonents
16.      Phvsical Workss  A total of 57 individual LCB contracts amounting
to US$16.3 million, and three ICB contracts amounting to US$20.0 m covering
almost all of the civil works component allocation have already been
awarded. Most of the LCB contracts are nearing completion and the ICB
contracts were awarded in June and August, 1990. In physical terms, a
total of 2.393 km will be completed under the awarded contracts. All of
the on-going contracts are expected to be completed by the end of 1991.
The bridge component under the project is out to tender, contracts are
expected to be awarded in early 1991, and work completed by mid 1992.
Under the project, DFR has awarded contracts for 455 km of regravelling,
387 km of spot improvement, and improvement of 196 drainage structures
costing about ¢2,510 m (US$7.97 m). These works are expected to be
completed by mid 1991.
17.      A comparison between targets taken from the TRSP and likely
achievements under TRP-1 is given in Annex 2-7 (see lines 1 to 3 in the
table). There will be a shortfall of 326 km of resurfacing works while
regraveling and resealing will be in excess of 340 km and 159 km,
respectively. The shortfall in resurfacing will spill over into TRP-2.
Periodic road maintenance works in 1988 as executed under RRMP have been
included in the table since works under TRP-1 commenced only in 1989 while
the TRSP started in 1988.
18.      Training:  Up to now, the training program has been financed under
RRMP. The MTPU and the RTPU have been strengthened and are now operating
at an output of about 700 trainees per year including training abroad.
Renovation of a hostel and mechanics training shed is presently underway
and is expected to be completed by the end of 1990. The training output
could be increased to about 800 per year once the additional facilities are
completed and provided that sufficient operating funds are made available
for the two TPUs. Based on the increased output, it is expected that about
1800 staff will be trained during the TRP-2 implementation period. (See
Annex 3-4).
19.      Consultant Services and Technical Assistance:  Consultants engaged
for the engineering design of periodic maintenance works have completed the
assignment and are now engaged in supervising the contract works. A
contract management specialist engaged through a consultant is providing an
overall monitoring of a large number of on-going contracts. The PMU



57
ANNEX 2-6
Page 6 of 9
technical assistance started under RRMP is continuing the monitoring of the
project.
20.      Local Punds:  The Government's effort in providing local
counterpart funds has been encouraging and up to now works by contract have
not been affected due to shortage of local counterpart funds. However,
funds for force account routine maintenance (under recurrent budget) lately
have been slightly below requirements. As the Government is aware of the
consequences of neglect of routine maintenance, it is making efforts to
provide needed funds.
C. Railway Comwonent
21.      The railway components under TRP-1 consisted of (i) rehabilitation
of the Central and Eastern Lines, (ii) purchase of locomotives, and
(iii) management support and training. The work on (i) is proceedlng
satisfactorily, under Italian financing, though there have been initial
delays; item (iii), mostly funded by IDA, is progressing satisfactorily.
The purchase of new locomotives has been seriously delayed, since the
initial expectation of cofinancing did not materialize. There has also
been a delay in Government releasing funding for spare parts. These
factors have constrained GRC's ability to handle additional traffic being
offered in bauxite and other commodities. The Government has, however,
released annual funds for spares in full in 1990, and cofinancing
agreements with France and the U.K. are nearing finalization for purchase
of new locomotives and rehabilitation of existing locomotives under TRP-2
(Annex 3-6). GRC and the Government have signed a Performance Agreement
with performance targets as required in the TRP-1 Credit Agreement.
Railway traffic is steadily increasing but at a lesser pace than expected
due to the locomotive shortage, and this will delay by about two years
reaching the financial target of GRC not requiring the Government's revenue
subsidies.
D.   Other Transport Sector Components
22.      Strengthening of MTC and Institutional Improvements:  As part of
the institution building component of TRP-1, the Planning and
Implementation Division (PID) has been reorganized with a strength of
18 officers to handle and fulfil the MTC objectives. A comprehensive
training program was formulated to raise the capabilities of HTC staff and
so far 13 officers have been trained abroad under IDA with 7 more officers
trained under bilateral funding. A fully-fledged Implementation Unit
(including Project Accounting) has been established and officers of this
Unit are getting on-the-job training through IDA funded technical
assistance.
23.      MTC has conducted a number of sector studies under TRP-1.  MTC,
with IDA funding, has carried out a Road Transport Sub-sector Study (RTSS),
analyzing problems facing the transport sector and suggesting short- and
medium-term solutions. Two financial studies, one for Ghana Civil Aviation
Authority (GCAA) and the other for Black Star Line (BSL) have been done.
The objective of the GCAA study for establishment of proper financial



ANNEX 2-6
Page 7 of 9
systems has been met. The BSL study gave a., in-depth view of the status of
accounting and financing system in SSL. A study for data processing
systems for five public sector companies was conducted identifying their
basic requirements. A study for restructuring of the three Public Sector
Bus Companies has been completed and is under review by the Government.
"Accra Urban Transport Options Study" has been completed and this clearly
spells out the future line of action for Accra urban transport problems. A
study for commodity transport costs is underway. MTC conducted with its
own staff a 'Road Tariffs Survey" and a "Survey of Motor Trading Firms".
24.      The PID has been producing annual transport statistics, since
1988. This work will be continued and improved. For the first time, as
part of TRP-1, the MTC has set up a high level Transport Policy Review
Committee (TPRC) institutionalizing a framework for policy discussions
between the private sector, Chamber of Commerce, other concerned Government
agencies and MTC. The TPRC is now meeting regularly every quarter and has
gone a long way in building a climate of mutual confidence.
25.      As part of TRP-1, MTC has been provided with the much-needed
office equipment, including PCs. The working environment has been improved
to ease crowding.
26.      Support to Ghana Civil Aviation Authority (GCA):  The newly-
formed GCAA has been given support by way of imparting much-needed training
of its officers to build up its capabilities. Fourteen officers have been
trained in the field of communications, traffic control, engineering and
management and three more have been programmed for training. Exposure was
also given to top management by way of short courses abroad. The main
thrust of TRP-1 has been confined to training as other improvements are
planned through bilateral assistance (see Annex 2-4).
27.      ImProvement of Road Safety:  TRP-1 has supported institutional
development for improving road safety in Ghana where the accident record is
one of the worst in terms of casualties per 10,000 vehicle population.
28.      A new accident form comprising police prosecution requirements and
requirements of accident analysis has been designed and a proper accident
data collection, storage and analysis system has been established at the
Building Road and Research Institute (BRRI) with IDA-financed
infrastructure support including vehicles, computer and technical
assistance. The BRRI has already covered five (out of ten) regions of the
country for data collection and analysis. The National Road Safety
Committee (NRSC) has been reactivized with the support of IDA-funded
equipment including a computer and the NRSC has now launched a drive for
road safety. The Motor Traffic Unit (MTU) of Ghana police has been given
required equipment, training and technical assistance for law enforcement.
Technical assistance for training and setting up systems was made available
to MTU. MTU has now started using radar guns for speed checks and
alcometers for checking driver drunkenness.
29.      Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) and Department of Urban Road (DUR)
engineers have been trained to eliminate 'Black Spots' by consultants under



- 59 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 8 of 9
technical assistance programs, and they are getting regular feedback from
BRRI for exact spots which require improvements.
30.      TRP-1 has made provision for upgrading the Vehicle Examination and
Licensing Department (VELD) Centers. The Accra VELD has been refurbished
and extended and has been provided equipment. Construction of the Takoradi
VELD is about to start. Technical assistance to the executing agencies for
the road safety program is on schedule (see Annex 3-9).
31.      Sectorwide Training Program for Mechanies. Drivers and MaMaeers:
To improve road transport organization, vehicle maintenance and safety
standards, four training institutes have been strengthened by way of
provision of equipment and training aids. These are Kumasi Technical
Institute (KTI), Accra Technical Training Center (ATTC), National
Vocational and Technical Institute (NVTI), and Management Development and
Productivity Institute (MDPI). Up to March 1990, these institutes have
trained 709 mechanics, 916 drivers and driver instructors, and 379 managers
against a target of 1,500 mechanics, 2,316 drivers, and 1,000 managers set
for TRP-1. The feedback from trainees who have completed training has been
very encouraging. The training program is helping to upgrade the skills
and quality of work produced by a large number of auto mechanics and
service units with the informal sector which helps to keep Ghana's old
vehicle fleet in service.
32.      As envisaged in TRP-1, the MTC has set up a Training Steering
Committee (TSC) comprising the head of educational institutions,
beneficiary organizations, and representatives of concerned Government
agencies. The TSC has given a sense of involvement to all concerned and
has been instrumental to the success of the training subcomponent of TRP-
1.
33.      Introduction and Promotion of Intermediate Means of Transiport
(nMT): The Technology Consultancy Center (TCC) with the help of technical
assistance, institutional and funding support given under TRP-1 has been
able to develop a design for Cycle Trailer (CT) and a Small Farm Vehicles
(SFV) after extensive field trials of a number of prototypes, carried out
under this project. The TCC was assisted in development of the design by
ITT of the U.K. who were their consultants. Five hundred each of CT and
SFV are under production and distribution to identified users. The Bureau
of Integrated Rural Development (BIRD) and Ghana Regional Appropriate
Technology and Industrial Service (GRATIS) have been associated with
identification, promotion and reporting of impact of the INT. In the
Northern region, Amasachina, and the 31st of December Women's Movement,
both involved in rural women's development, have been associated to promote
and give feedback on IMT.
34.      The in.ttial feedback from users has been encouraging.  For the
rural areas whiLh have no means of transport and low income levels, the CTs
and SFVs will not only alleviate the drudgery of headloading by women who
carry farm produce from village to market centers, but will substantially
enhance the earning capacity with increased load carrying capacity of CTs
and SFVs. These are also generating spare time for other productive



- 60 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 9 of 9
activities to villagers. Rural women have particularly been very
enthusiastic about these vehicle type. The success of IHT can be gauged
from the fact that even at the initial stage of extended field trials,
farmers are making enquiries from TCC for purchase. The next stage in its
development should be comzercial production. Two hurdles are now standing
in the ways first, the tires and wheels of the unit need to be imported
while other components are locally produced which limits its easy
adaptation; second, local entrepreneurs are still generally hesitant to
invest in new ventures or on expansion of old ventures, as Government's new
liberal policies are yet? to fully'win overali private sector confidence,
and as obtaining bank credit is still difficult. One entrepreneur in
Tamale has now made a modest start in commercial production and may expand.
The Northern Region Pilot Scheme under TRP-2 will enable rural women to
purchase these vehicles through earnings they will make by working on road
projects; the women have shown keenness in participating in this program.
35.      Lines of Credit for Small Garage-Owners and Transprt Pilot
Proiects: The TRP-1 objective to improve road transport sector and vehicle
maintenance facitities has had its thrust felt through the subcomponent of
Lines of Credit to Small Garage Owners who lacked tools, equipment and
working capital. So far 250 such garage owners have benefitted under this
subcomponent to the amount of US$455,000 equivalent. Welding sets, working
tools, measuring instruments and sprayers are some of the equipment
acquired by them. The Social Security Bank (SSB) which is executing the
lines of credit, has also been assisted by way of technical assistance to
upgrade the capabilities of garages. The subcomponent is extremely popular
among small garage owners who could not afford working tools and had no
access to credit facilities at reasonable rates. The loans are on communal
rates (about 24 percent annual interest). The repayment of the loans is
however slower than expected; pending satisfactory loan recovery, further
disbursement of these small credits has been stopped.
AP4IN
October 1990



- 61 -
S                AnoeM~ub   2-7
Peg 1 df 1
RpINUC or  wA
$ECOl TRAIPOR RIHARUTATgiO PROJECTr
Too Year Trunk Rtoa Stebi IIsattoo Plea
per baking Clearance lto Perideic Mltlteneaae (1900-lU?)
RffVEL           DUSAL .RERF&CE                      TOM
1. STASILZATION PROGO  TARGET
1i0 - 10  (1W-i)                 1,012               1U               734             2,"0
m  - NW (190)              *            a00               10               20               680
TR-1 LCB10                        I   us8s                                                  640
UP-1 LC  2 .                           181               102              in                8
RP-1  CB 1.1 b/                        2"                162              211               an
R-1  LC *.1 b/                         420                a                so               517
2. EPECTED ACHIEVEMENT                   2,252               811              468             8,028
TUP-1 (OUDRNG 6-v1)
8. SHOARTFLL  P-1 (1-2)                   (840)             (159)             3*6              (178)
4. STASILZATION PRORM  TARE              2,21U               810              675             8,20S
1990-1601 (TRP-2)
S.  MOTAL RE lUJ4EN                      1,376               161            1,001             8,080
(8.4) 1991-1968
-2 XCI 1.2 c/                          275              1in               s                 718
-2 LCB 8.2 c/                          U4                 10              207               571
AD0, TUP-2 ROADS                       980                 6              856             1,294
6. EXPECTED ACHIEVEIMT
UP-f (TRNG 1001-0)                   1,55 19                              668             2,578
7. SHORTFALL llP-2 (5)                     U19                0               188               462
S. STABIUZATtUN PROGRAM TARGET
1992-1900  (cmP-$                    1,060               447              460             2,906
9. TOTAL REQJIREMT
(7.6) 13-1195                        2,801              447               598             8,848
10. EPECTED ACHOEVEMENT
UrP-$ (OURIN  10906)                 1,919               447              415             2,781
11. SHlORTFALL UPW-  (9-10)                U9                 0               176               56
12. sTA5tuZATION PROAM TART
1004-1006 (RP-4                       ,50                541              286             2,818
13. TOTAL R RMEN
(11+12) 1906-1997                    1,919              "47               414             2,630
14. EXPECTED ACHIEVEMENT
UP-4 DUMI  105-16)                   1,916               547              414             2,880
1t. TOTAL                                7,640             1,45             2,15             11,262
a/ Coplete
b/ xIu p.e,  e..  l ICB 1.1 *ed LCB 8.1 contracft have bee awarded
and work *III be phyvically completed during th second holf of 1991.
e/ IC6 1.2 and LC0 8.2 peckge have bee  prepre fully and are ready for endeing.
AF41I
Oct lW0



4nime  2-8
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table l. ANNEAL ROAD BUDGET, 1990 - MINISTRY OF ROADS AND DIGIVAYS
(in Xillion Cedis)
Trunk. Urban  .eeder
Description                            Roads    Roads    Roads    TOTAL
A.  Capital Budgetl/
1.  Periodic Maintenance           9,590    1,540       853   11,983
(including backlog
clearance)
2. Capital Expenditure2/
(a) Construction works
(Mainly Rehabilitation)
.i)  Roads               7,364    1,113       560    9,037
(ii)  Estates                131       90       22       243
(b) Plant, Equipment,
Furniture & Vehicles          40        -        18       58
4.  Cocoa Roads                        -         -    2,000    2,000
TOTAL                             17,125    2,743    3,453   23,321
B. Recurrent Budget
(Includes wages, and about ¢1.1 billion
for maintenance materials)
1.  Recurrent Expenditure          3,004      299       284    3,587
TOTAL ROAD BUDGET (A and B)           20,129    3,042    3,737   26,908
Source: Ministry of Roads and Highways, Project Management Unit
AF4IN
August 1990
11 As per classification in Government budget.
2/ Amounts under (1) include payments from Road Fund and regular budget.



- 63 -
Am"e 2-8
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT RERhBILITATION PROJECT
Table 2.  SUMMARY OF 1990 BUDGET FOR PERIODIC MAI1TENANCE AND MINOR WORKS
Description                                  Length Km          Amount
(Million 0)
1. Trunk Roads
1.1  Regravelling                               454          1,016
1.2  Resealing                                   81            567
1.3  Resurfacing                                403          6,445
1.4  Improvement                                 43            547
1.5  Drainage Structures                          -            140
1.6  Maintenatice of Town Roads                                491
1.7  Rehabilitation of Bridges                    -            384
TOTAL FOR TRUNK ROADS                                        9
2.  Urban Roads
2.1  Regravelling                                22            134
2.2  Resealing                                   60            379
2.3  Resurfacing                                 50            635
2.4  Drainage Structures                          5             75
2.5  Improvement                                  5             91
2.6  Sidewalk Construction                        2             90
2.7  Others                                120 No.              75
2.8  Road Marking                               100             61
TOTAL FOR URBAN ROADS                                        1,540
3. Feeder Roads
3.1  Regravelling                              100             150
3.2  Grading and Reshaping                   1,000             300
3.3  Improvement                                 50            113
3.4  Drainage Structures                   150 No.              65
3.5  Tarring Gravel Roads                                        -
3.6  4th Highway Project                          -              -
3.7  Labor-Intensive Road Rehabilitation       150             225
TOTAL FOR FEEDER ROADS                                         853
GRAND TOTAL                                                 11.983
Source: Ministry of Roads and Highways, Project Management Unit
AF4IN
October 1990



- 64 -
Annx 240
REPUIC OF OHANA                        Page 3 of 3
SECON TRSOT REIBILITATION PRJECT
T bl-J.      mUL RDIS IEOS (            S        P"no) FR PIRIC  1iNTAN   PROMW
A   RWI=  VAIDIwC  (II R         AlVATW  U# ULION  N 199l  PKCS)
1991           1992           199
A. Periodic Maintenance
1.  TRP-2 Road Stabiliation Program
(matnly GHA) 1                                       204            20.0           20.0
2. Other PeriodIc Malatenance
Coaponuta of 1A 3                                     7.1            Y.1            7.1
8. Urban Road. (OUR) $j                                   6.0            6.0            6.0
4. Feeder Roads (DFR) I                                   2.6            6.0            6.0
TOTAL                                                    35.6           38.1           89.1
(Rounded)                                               (3.0.)         (38.0)         (39.0)
B. Annual Routine Maintenance Needs for
Materials. Supolies and Plant Operating
Costs: Excludes Wogos p                                   6.5            6.5            6.5
General Note: The above annual totals are slightly above the 19S0 budget lovel for periodic
maintenance (311.9 billion a USS35 mIllIon; see Table 2 of this Annex).
/   Based on commitment needed under the 3-yer Stablization Program under TRP-2; tho
actual annual cash-flow may be different.
3    Eti mated from TRP-2 Cost Table for Road Works; Annox 3-12; Item A. 1. USS6 mlllion
frQo Governmnt funding over thre years.
t Based on 1990 budget level, with increses In bridge and drainage components (as Items
1.4 to 1.7 on Table 2 of this Annex; US81 * p49).
V    Based on Governmnt's *Urban-20 projoct ned  (USS1.5 million annual) plus-1999 budget
lIvel for other urban roads (se Item 2 on Table 2 of this Annex; US$S1 a 34).
I/  Based on National Feeder Road Project estimate.
fl Assumptions:
(a)    For Trunk Roads: 1991 coverage of network In routine maintenance; annual costs
US$700 per km of paved roads (6,400 km), and US$460 per km of gravel roads
(S 406 kin); material coats are S6X. (Resulting total annual coat -
USa4.9 m llI on.)
(b)    For Feeder Roads: S3X coverage of a network of 22,666 km; cot US$30 per in;
S6X material cost.  Result: annual cost a US1.6  TIllIon.
AF41N
flctober 1990



-65-
ANN£X 2-0
,SPJSC OF OUH
SECOND "RAMSPORT RHAsITATLro  PROJECT
Road TranoDort Vehilte Peonultion 1979-89
Private
Care               Tankers                               Total*
and                  and                                 Excluding
Veer  Motorcyclee    Tali    sux   e     Trcks    Tractors         Tot I       motorcycles
1to9     8,1W        25,48s    6,197      8,627          n         39s421        36,23s
l0ow     2,876       23,9       7,325     3,205         852       38,274         85,308
1981     1,96#       22,323    7,840      2,756         605        36,119        88,123
102      2,89a       25,225    8,181      2,684       1,037        39,8W         37,027
1983     2,617       23,825    6,09s      2,757         928        87,086        84,460
1064     2,332       20,203    s,678      2,671         807        81,601        20,350
1065     2,749       18,724   12,719      4,254       1,177        80,623        36,874
1066      4,202      31,664    11,256    6,113          961        54,106        49,904
1is7     4,429       44,086    15,173     7,600         466        72,6S         66,286
1066     4,560       s0,923    17,46    7,900           324        61,253        76,693
1989     4,773       60,162   21,196    9,916           408       90,440         01,667*.
Notes: * Figures repreent numbrs of privately-owned vehicles which obtaned rodworthines
certificates during * 6-month period; Certification is dons saml-annually.
se To estimato vehicle fleet, the above numbers are to be Increased by
(a about 2CX for vehicles not presented for examinatin and
ab about 16,000 for government vehicles.
ON THIS BASIS, VEHICLE FLEET FOR 1989 WILL BE ABWT 126,000.
Sourcn: Ministry of Transport and Communication (Vehiclo Examination and Liconstng
Departmnt)
AF41N
October 1900



-66 -
AE 2,-1
REPUBIIC OF CHA
Fust Confuwtiomon Dat. 10 1960
X Change
Over Previous
Yoer         Gn ol I I       0L     fuel         Totsl             Yar
1976         172,212           194,616           366.228
1971         199,68            199,18            389,809            4.2
1972         199,186           214,60M           418,780           +4.4
1978         206,752           219,Ut4          420,286            *1.6
1974         210,401           216,913           427,874           +1.7
1075         227,002           238,B81           460,388           .7.7
1976         289,842           288,818          477,656            +3.6
1977         226,286           295,77           624,005            +9.7
1978         266,558           276,196          534,743            +2.1
1979         216,680           265,766          482,626            -9.7
190          2465806           282,880          628,180            +9.5
1981         268,600           295,680          559,100            .6.0
1982         247,600           255,080           603,206          -10.0
1988         181,280           231,80            418,680          -18.0
1984         178,680           223,109          401,100            -8.9
1986         218,M             261,800          494,000           +23.9
1986         227,000           205,90           512,900            +8.6
1987         282,006           297,980           529,0             +3.8.
1988         286,611           292,809           678,980           +9.2
1989         841,0             820,000          661,606           +14.8
Source: Ghana Supply Comleelon and qusrterly Diget Of Statistics, December 1983, for yeare
1970-1981; Ministry of Fu.l and Power for 1982 to 1969.
National Energy Board, for years 1987 to 189.
AF4IN
October 1999



- 67 -
ANNEX 2-11
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ghana Railways: An Overview of Present Situation
A. Existing System
1.        Ghana Railways Corporation (GRC) is a public sector company
under the tutelage of the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC).
GRC owns and operates a network of about 950 km of metric gauge track. The
network consists principally of: (i) the Western Line (325 km) from the
port of Takoradi to Kumasi; (ii) the Eastern Line (300 km) linking the port
of Tema to Kumasi, with a short spur to Accra; and (iii) the Central Line
(175 km), linking the Eastern and Western Lines. There are also three
major branch lines of which two are connecting respectively the Western
Line to the bauxite mine of Awaso (about 75 km) and to the former gold mine
of Prestea (about 30 km).  The third branch line to Kade (about 40 km) is
connected to the Central Line. All the network is a single track system
with the exception of about 30 km of double track between Takoradi and
Manso justified by a relatively high density of traffic, including
manganese and commuter trains plus rolling stock movements between Takoradi
and the main maintenance facilities.
2.        The Western Line, between Takoradi and Kumasi, provides the
principal export corridor for four important export commoditiest cocoa,
timber, manganese and bauxite. The Central Line carries some timber and
cocoa to Takoradi. The main traffic on the Eastern Line has been cocoa and
timber towards Tema and petroleum products to the up-country destinations.
Many sectijns of the Western and Central Lines serve areas which lack other
means of transport. All three lines support significant passenger traffic.
Once a well-run system, the railways greatly deteriorated during the
decade-long economic crisis of the 1970's. The deterioration was reflected
in various unsatisfactory parameters, like frequent derailments, declining
traffic, high working ratio, and low staff productivity. Due to
rehabilitation works on the Western Line and institutional strengthening
undertaken from about 1983, GRC's performance has recently improved
considerably. Physical rehabilitation works on the Central and Eastern
Lines and overall system improvements are yet to be completed, which will
further improve GRC's performance.
3.        The Western Line is now equipped with 90 or 80 pounds rails
while the branch to the bauxite mine line is equipped with 75 pounds rails.
The Central Line and the Eastern Line are currently under thorough
rehabilitation financed by Italian aid and will at completion be equipped
with a mixture of old 80 pounds rails and new 80 pounds rails. The branch
lines are still equipped with the old and mostly original 60 pounds rails.



-68-
ANNEX 2-11
Page 2 of 6
4.        The axle load on the Western Line is 16 tons (except on some
bridges where 16 tons can be achieved only with speed restriction). On the
Central and Eastern Line., axle load will be 14 tons after the on-going
rehabilitation is completed.
5.        A new electric signaling system financed under the First
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1170-GH) is now in service on the Western Line
but will be completed under TRP-2 with locking devices to be mounted on
turns-ov't to improve safety operation. A similar system is being installed
on the Eastern Line during its rehabilitation under TRP-1.
6.        On the Western Line, the old open wires telecomvunication system
formerly owned by the Postal and Telegraph (P & T) authorities has been
replaced by a new cable put into service during the implementation of the
first project. The system will be complemented by a back-up micro wave
system on the three lines during the next two years. with the help of
Italian financing. On the other lines, the old system is in poor condition
and only the major stations can be contacted through a radio network.
7.        The headquarters and the main workshop facilities are located in
the Takoradi-Sekondi area: 2 major running sheds (depots) financed under
Cr. 1170-GH are located in Sekondi and Kumasi, while there are two minor
sheds in poor condition in Accra and Tema.
S.        GRC operates 42 main line and branch line locomotives of five
different classes and about 25 shunting locomotives of three different
classes.  The 10 branch line locomotives of about 700 HP are less than 8
years old, but the three classes of main line locomotives (between 1400 and
1800 HP) are on average 20 years old. The shunting locomotives are all
more than 15 years old with an average age of 25 years. The average
availability of the fleet is now about 50 percent.
9.        The former wagon fleet of about 3300 wagons has been reduced to
about 1,150 over the last 8 years under an intensive scrapping program
agreed with IDA. The remaining fleet is not in satisfactory condition with
an average availability of about 60 percent. Given the relatively low axle
load, the payload of most of the wagons is as low as 25 tons. For the long
term, this payload should be increased at least for selected types of
wagons operating only on heavy rail-track, in order to improve productivity
and reduce transportation costs. In addition, a program set up during TRP-
1, to repl4ce plain bearings by roller bearings on about 200 wagons is
being completed. New wagons are to be acquired under TRP-2 which will
consist of mostly heavier gondola type wagons.
10.       GRC now has 185 old coaches of which 30 percent are more than 25
years old, while 133 new coaches have been acquired under an East German
aid program in 1987-88. The availability of the old coaches is about
40 percent while the availability of the new coaches is above 90 percent.



-69 -
ANNEX 2-11
Page 3 of 6
8. Ob2rations
11.       Freight traffic on the Western Line is relatively well
organized. The turnaround of the mineral wagons is quite satisfactory
while some improvements have to be made on bolster wagons and vans,
handling timber, cocoa and general cargo. For these wagons, the problem
relates to loading-unloading difficulties rather than on operation of the
railway. The Eastern Line between Tema and Kumasi is in very poor
condition, but rehabilitation works with the help of Italian aid has
already started.  Formerly, the maim traffic on this line was cocoa to be
exported through the port of Tema, but because of the condition of the
track, no freight trains are operating on this line at present, which is
only used for two night passenger trains. The relatively low traffic on
the Central Line is mostly handled by mixed trains (passenger plus goods).
This operating pattern is probably an acceptable compromise given the
present shortage of locomotives.
12.       Formerly, all the three lines had significant passenger traffic
but it dropped steeply until 1987 because of:
-    Breakdown of passenger coaches due to severe deterioration;
-    Poor track condition which slowed down passenger trains to
unacceptable limits; and
-    Lack of hauling capacity leading to numerous and unpredictable
cancellation of services.
13.       A sharp recovery started in 1987 with the purchase of 133 new
coaches, but from a rolling stock utilization point of view this traffic is
not well organized and substantial savings are possible. As the old
coaches are unattractive, unreliable and therefore mostly devoted to local
commuter trains, the long distance trains are made up of the new coaches.
Given this situation, many sleeping coaches are utilized in day-operated
trains, leading to a waste of transport capacity and a higher operating
cost. As the average distance for passenger traffic is about 100 km/trip,
it is clear that the present fleet composition is inadequate and that the
quantity of sleeping coaches should be reduced in future train composition
in favor of seating coaches. However, this situation will change when the
Eastern and Central Lines now under rehabilitation become operational for
regular passenger traffic by 1992.
C. Main Problems and Recent Achievements
14.         The main problems that faced the railway in the early 1980s
were both of physical and institutional character and are listed as
follows:
-    Poor track condition and dilapidated signalling and
telecommunication system;
-    Inadequate maintenance facilities not properly equipped for
diesel technology;



-70-
ANNEX 2-11
Page 4 of 6
-    Lack of motive power with an availability of less than 40 percent
for several classes of locomotives;
-    Lack of coaches and wagons in operating conditions;
_    Lack of spare parts due to a shortage of foreign exchange;
-    Poor utilization of existing rolling stock;
-    Tariffs too low to recover even variable operating costs;
-    Excessive fixed costs due mainly to overstaffing which accounted
for about 70 percent of the total costs;
-    High subsidies to balance the gap between costs and revenue;
-    Lack of management autonomy which hindered appropriate personnel
management in terms of wages and numbers, and adequate financial
decisions in terms of tariffs and cost recovery.
15.       The above problems have been addressed and are being solved under
the recently completed Railway Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1170 GH), the
on-going TRP-1 ( Cr. 1858-GH), and will be further dealt with under the
proposed TRP-2. The first project in early 1983 and the railway component
of TRP-1 were designed to address the major weaknesses and urgent problems
of GRC. All of these issues were well identified during the preparation of
these two railway projects and the steps to correct the situation were
appropriate. In some fields such as staff reduction, rolling stock
availability, rehabilitation of the Western Line track and
telecommunication system, implementation of an adequate costing system,
etc., the results of the projects are quite satisfactory in spite of delays
in proj.-ct implementation and set-backs experienced during the first
project. However, several financial and institutional issues such as cost
recovery, overstaffing and management autonomy still exist, and the GRC has
not been able to meet expectations in terms of traffic projections, cost
recovery and therefore working ratios.
16.       The first project was fully completed by 1989 and as a result,
the railway system has turned around. The rehabilitated track,
locomotives, rolling stock, the new signalling and telecommunication system
and the revitalized management revived GRC as a freight hauler and set it
on a steady course towards improvement. Soon after the project began to
take effect, freight traffic rose steadily from 45.7 m ton-km in 1984 to
132 m ton-km in 1989. Total traffic in tons doubled from 374,000 in 1984
to 760,000 in 1989. Passenger traffic also improved from 2.2 million to
3.3 million passengers in the same period. The steady growth of traffic
has restored shippers' confidence in the system, and returned GRC to its
former role in the western export corridor.
17.       Improvements in track, signalling and rolling stock have
significantly reduced accidents, particularly on the rehabilitated Western
Line, where the number of accidents have declined and the time lost to
traffic in accidents has come down from 110 days in 1984 to 5 days in 1989.
Availability and utilization of locomotives and rolling stock have improved
considerably. In 1983, the availability of locomotives and wagons was
31 percent and 29 percent, which rose dramatically in 1989 to 62 percent
and 61 percent, respectively.



- 71 -
ANNEX 2-11
Page 5 of 6
-18.       Four important studies were completed under the first project and
were useful in (a) assessing the traffic potential and extent of
investments needed on the Central and Eastern Lines and culminated in TRP-
1; (b) developing pricing policy on a cost oriented tariff structure and
profit analysis of traffic (this study also helped in the timely adjustment
of freight rates); (c) drawing up a staff reduction plan and an effective
manpower development program; and (d) detenmining the feasibility of
linking GRC's land line communication system with the parallel microwave
system of P & T. The link, though tecbnically feasible, did not
materialize because of problems in the microwave system. The project met
its objectives in the financial area as detailed in Arinez 4. The Project
Completion Report documents its overall success of this project, showing a
turn-around of GRC and an 18 percent ERR on all investments undertaken
during 1983-88.
AF4lN
October, 1990



ms ~ us: 1.
WI  r9  So  r0   we   "   re  re   "               (m-t.u Js3U
in6; coo  u6'wg        m SK        au    w           (owel) "$
*t1Wi 1t1 *L
*    #    9   3    U    0U  IL  01   3                   W1t
s o       U    69        a    S          at c    o
so  so   a   as   aZ n   as              v  ulluet MR*9N
4j,1t* m uo mat *g
cm   cm   m   cm   ow   cii  cm   ou  cm  £,App  an 'n"iqe 's
IL  IL  tL   I    co  Is  OD   at   6    pI*amLoTr owI (q
, s    9   a9  Ca   O    O    oi   a    PI,wugor IR.owCe
^'l~~wll anigim  *,
X   x    Mt  m    M   M         -    -             A (P
wove  sn.  wo. awe  oe ose  two w     w 
193Io P F  P &F S'
no   MtanM UK            amT  an  U    Mt
-M -  6W IdW
uf mmmwa4mm" =Om
W  ii  mm  
9 ~ ~ ~~ M A°              Z 6i
I4-Z X3WtV
- U£-



-73-
ANNEX 2-12
Page I of 7
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
LECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ghana Railways: Past Traffic Trends and Proiections
ackaround
1.        The decline in rail traffic up to about 1970 was cased by road
transport asserting its due share through competition with the railway.
However, the decline since the early 19708 was due more to the physical
decline of the railway system which was such that by 1980 the railway could
hardly carry even its captive traffic in bauxite and manganese ore.
Another reason for the fall was the economic decline of Ghana during the
1970s, which depressed overall traffic levels. It is expected that with
the recovery of the economy, and with the rehabilitation of the railway
system, and strengthening of its management, the railway will regain the
traffic levels it hauled in the early 1970s.
Nature of the Railway Traffic
2.        GRC freight traffic is largely exports, and about 90 percent of
the tonnage is accounted for by four commodities: bauxite and manganese
ore, which are captive traffic, and cocoa and timber in which rail and road
actively compete for traffic. Competition has been strong and the
railway's share of non-captive traffic has declined. Other traffic
consists of cement from the cement processing plants in Takoradi and Tema,
and petroleum products from the refinery in Tema and bulk storage tanks in
Takoradi, moving up country. Cement and petroleum from Tema is not moving
by rail at present pending the rehabilitation of the Eastern Line,
currently in progress under TRP-1.
3.        Passenger traffic had been a major component of railway traffic,
until safety hazards crippled passenger services in the 1980g. Passenger
traffic consisted of mainly two categories, long distance passengers
(mainly traders and farmers who visited city markets and who preferred the
luggage space advantage of rail travel), and short distance passengers
between villages inadequately linked to the road system, as well as
commuters in the Accra area. Railways continue to retain a cost advantage
in the movement of freight traffic in bulk and offers more competitive
tariffs compared to road transport. Financial projections show that this
competitive edge will be retained even when subsidies are eliminated after
1993.
Recent Traffic Growth
4.        As noted in para 2.28 of the SAR for TRP-2, as a result of
recent railway rehabilitation efforts, freight traffic more than doubled
between 1984 and 1989 (to 770,000 tons) and freight ton-km increased more
than three times (to 132 million ton-km) (see Table A attached). Passenger
traffic increased by SOZ during the same period.



- 74 -
ANNEX 2-12
Page 2 of 7
Traffic Prolections
S.        Future traffic will increase steadily but the current set-back
due to delays in replacing locomotives will slow down the rate of growth up
to 1992-93, compared to earlier projections under TRP-1. Locomotive
requirements to meet current shortages and future replacement needs have
been reassessed, and are now being negotiated. The Government promptly
released funding for spares in 1990, and has agreed to release similar
funds regularly in future. Traffic projections have been worked out for
1992-95 assuming that locomotive availability would improve with the
rehabilitation of eight units of class 1851 loconotives in 1991-92 arnd the
procurement of at least seven new locomotives and their introduction in
1992. Additional replacement locomotives (about six) are to be introduced
during 1992-94. These projections have been worked out linewise and are in
close approximation with those projected for TRP-1 except for some change
in the traffic mix, and for higher volumes of bauxite. Passenger traffic
trends have been erratic and traffic levels have not come up to target
levels due to the shortage of locomotives. Also the expectation of higher
passenger traffic is linked to the rehabilitation of the Central and
Eastern Lines. Based on past growth and particularly the average trip
distance (100 km instead of 118 km estimated earlier), the projections of
passenger traffic have been revised downwards. Table A presents past
traffic data and revised future projections (along with past projections
under the TRP-1 SAR which have been revised downwards up to 1992); Table B
presents line-wise projections for 1990-95.
5.        Between 1986 and 1989 there has been a steady increase in
traffic following the rehabilitation of the Western Line. However, this
improvement has been checked primarily by the shortage of locomotives
arising from delays in purchase of four locomotives proposed under the
First Rehabilitation Project and TRP-1 and delays in getting Government
funding for spares. The major effect has been to curtail passenger trains
but the shortage of capacity has also had the effect of restricting GRC's
efforts to compete actively for cocoa and timber traffic through prompt
services, and has led to a more cautious marketing approach vis-a-vis
traffic. It has also resulted in GRC not being able to carry all the
captive mineral traffic offered affecting the freight traffic targets fixed
earlier.
6.        Traffic projections are based on detailed origin/destination
surveys, customer-interviews, and comparative cost analysis prepared by
GRC's consultants RITES in 1986, updated by GRC staff and modified by Bank
staff. The original detailed commodity-wise analysis and discussions are
presented in the consultants' reports (RITES Report on Economic Feasibility
- TRP-1 Project Documents Nos. D04732 and D04733). Changes made by Bank
staff had the general effect of making the projections for most commodities
more conservative. The impact of the recent locomotive constraint has been
taken into account in revising TRP-1 projections during 1990-92. The
following paragraphs summarize the main assumptions and findings:
8.        Cocoa Traffic: Cocoa exports declined from 370,000 tons in 1973
to 272,000 tons in 1978 and to 200,000 tons in 1986. Bank estimates,



- 75 -
ANNEX 2-12
Page 3 -of 7
considered conservative, expect an export level of 250,000 tons by 1991 and
300,000 tons by 1995, as a result of recent cocoa rehabilitation efforts.
Because of the cost advantage and convenience in delivering large
quantities from the regional depots to the ports to meet shipment
schedules, the Ghana Cocoa Board (COCOBOD) has indicated a strong
preference for increasing the use of the railway after the rehabilitation
of the Eastern Line when the flow of traffic to Tema could be restored to
GRC, and when the road vehicle fleets purchased during the railway crisis
wear out. About 75 percent of cocoa was carried by rail in the 1960s, but
this share declined to about 30 percent in 1989. Traffic has consistently
increased during 1987-89.  GRC and COCOBOD estimate that about 80 percent
will move by rail after full rehabilitation of the railway system as
proposed under TRP-2 has been achieved. The projections presented here
assume a share of about 70 percent for the railway.
9.        Timber Traffic: Timber exports declined from a peak of about
840,000 tons in 1972 to 103,000 tons in 1983 and picked up to 247,000 tons
in 1986 (1 ton = 1 m3). The Bank's forestry sector review for Ghana (1986)
recommended an export level of about 400,000 tons from 1990 onwards. While
it is the desirable export level in terms of conserving forest resources,
the actual export quantity is likely to reflect a number of conflicting
factors, good overseas markets, larger sawmills and milling capacity, poor
road links, multiplicity of shippers, increased local demand, Government
restrictions on export of some species in log form, and the increased
tendency to substitute sawn timber for log exports. In view of these
factors, the shortage of locomotive capacity and keen competition between
road and rail for timber, a modest projection of the rail share in exports
is assumed from 1991 onwards. There has been a set-back in timber exports
in 1989-90, due to Government's investigation into suspected illegal
shipping and under-invoicing practices, but these negative effects will not
last long.
10.       Manganese Ore:  Manganese ore is mined at Nsuta and carried
*          63 km in block trains to the Takoradi Port for export.  Average annual
traffic in the 1970s was about 350,000 tons. Traffic declined to 138,000
tons in 1983 due to the breakdown in rail capacity. With improvements in
the Western Line, traffic has increased to 290,000 tons in 1988.  More can
be exported, if rail capacity is adequate. With the recent discovery of
new sources of high grade ore within the mining area, an annual export
level of about 300,000 tons is considered realistic and maintainable for at
least up to the year 2000. If the ore enrichment plant being set up is
successful, this traffic will increase further and will last much longer;
no account is taken of the export in enriched ore in the current traffic
projections.
11.       Bauxite:  Bauxite is mined at Awaso, 241 km from Takoradi.  It
has znique qualities suitable for chemical industries and has a ready
market and large reserves exist. The export of bauxite has been
constrained by the limited capacity of the railway. In the last three
years, the growth of exports have been significant with improvement in rail
capacity after rehabilitation. Without any major investment, the
production levels could increase to 650,000 tons, while the export of 1



- 76 -
NNX2-12
Page 4 of 7
million tons of bauxite is being programed before the year 2000, which
will require additional investments. Traffic levels of export reached
375,000 tons in 1989 and the demand for 1990 is estimated at 475,000 tons
and 500,000 tons for 1991. The constraint on achieving these targets is
only the shortage of locomotives; production can be increased substantially
by introducing second-shift operations. The Bauxite Mining Company is
working on removing production constraints assuming rail capacity will be
adequate. With the provision of additional locomotives and rolling stock,
the present projections conservatively assume the traffic growing to
550,000 tons by 1995. GRC and the Bauxite Mining Company consider 650,000
tons more realistic.
12.       Other traffic: this traffic mainly consists of moving cement and
petroleum products. Petroleum traffic has good prospects after the new
petroleum tanker-wagons, provided under TRP-1, arrive. Modest increases
are expected in *other traffic, items, after rail rehabilitation. An
aggressive approach to handling container transportation between Tema and
Takoradi to Kumasi and in reverse, could help to restore GRC's competitive
edge and provides it with a significant potential volume of traffic.
Passenger Traffic and Parcels Traffic
13.       Recent growth of passenger traffic has been below expectations
because passenger trains have borne the brunt in cuts due to locomotive
shortages and the Central and Eastern Lines are not yet back to normal
operation. Revised projections are described in Tables A and B but these
are conservative and do not reflect the introduction of many new services.
The demand for additional services will be reviewed after the
rehabilitation of the Central and Eastern Lines.
1986-1989 Traffics Comnarison with Taraets
14.       There has been a steady increase in traffic on the Western Line
since 1984. Against the target of 750,000 tons of freight indicated in the
SAR for TRP-1 (November 1987), the traffic carried was 743,000 tons.
However, for 1989, the original target. (indicated in the SAR for TRP-1) at
905,000 tons had to be revised to 770,000 tons due to shortage of motive
power, while the actual traffic carried was 761,000 tons.
Future Prospects
15.       While traffic will steadily increase, traffic projections made
under TRP-1 for 1990-93 have been revised downwards, since locomotive
acquisition and rehabilitation will take some time, and their full impact
will be felt only by 1992-93. Traffic will increase gradually during this
period, reaching previous projection levels during 1994-95. Tables A and B
attached provide past traffic and future projections. The revised
projections for 1994-95 are in line with TRP-1 projections, except in the
case of bauxite, where recent traffic growth has been well above
expectations and the Bauxite Mining Company has made firm plans for
increased exports. It should be noted that the lower traffic projections
do not imply a failure of TRP-1, but reflect a delay in its implementation,



- - ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     -7
-   - -  - -   -   .                              --5~~~~~~)a  5of 7
rSi.s1au17 rq#413  ,ie sm of ru.td   p_nr. acw.lc  etu     f
the cmiaed-and oerlapping ?R-? end: 13-2* USins the r"eVJ*  traffie
projection, provide an  l of about 292 (see Asme  5 of the ").
I .~   A41



78
IN GMaMLU=-mrinsr1IN14 MrMM IuCTUS
A. M.I6%  (AM0 T.mfhq)
Tibw                 47r      as      U       a5      a8     U       a              40      5     12      22      12
swa*                 466      308            W4     2       US       M50   27        250      03          800    80
Patmi..              -        -        -       -      -       -      5      is      10      20     6      14      140
othur                83       5       3a      16     U       44      1      10      20            280    16       160D
Total Towim        116       704    P4    600       63      744    770    7g    010    ON0  1,2     1,470  1,85
(In MlIlII") 33.0 1220.0 45.7 100.4 203 13 13 IN 144 168 2 204 317
- v-
B.~~~ ~~                                                        . ~ _a                    ._
aIn mlII on)          s      447    120    ng       80        s    SW      M 308 M860 6040    GM0    6M
C.  Lap A P,m.
(I 'O   (Ton)    RA          R%       la     a       u       45     47      60      70     a       U       a     la
&uva. OCArik Mimics
Gb. 2890



* *N rn-23Sr
1.314S1E RAVY  TCM PJCrml=
PI,~I     GDN.                 U19S1I         C9                                        FSC3
Fr*lcF~~~2          6     )                        U                   IM                 Im                     4      (            W
(OM To"     IL  0.  a. ia      IL  .L mOTL MEAL   UL  .L EL OI1W  K.   . R. ELM.    UL  0. EL  l             IL   L lIL W. 0. IL TPL
cam         7      - 9  -              -so        de it-   s           08S-    11-   100         0   1       11a0     5 so0 noa   a  O    v    20
Tl*W         3    4  -    S    2D   5      -    a    0D   0 -  40    40 a   -    I       O 07     a 16        s 9 i 1   511       9a 0  .5      X
_t         50 - - -            M1  -   -  M      IN   -   - I O    4310  -   -   410   47 t-   -   47B    U   -   -               M 0 - -       0
_           0   -   -  n       27S  -   -  gm         -        -  M   0  -- -      0    3   -- -             10  -   -   JO0    0  -   -   8O0
P!%*"I      so  -       -a --il    10-                    -   10         - -    3        40 -  0              do  -    40      0  -   SO 20
OW&Aw       8    t-   a         7  *  -   la    10  0  - 10    1a   0  -    2                3     0   10 M    U   10  A       0    10 1       4 0
T.ST_  75  11 M   S   0  710   153   0 75        im  223   03  0       5      0   M 1,5  5  US 1    45  1,3.5  623  1,4M  135   2 1    1,111
T.TJO
(tI 1.)                 1n                188                144                   a                  m                     4                   1
(ht.)         *         8*.5   2.8 0.8 0.8 2.9   24 08 0.8 Lo    2.9 0.5 0.6  4.0   L.  1.0 1.8  oo    8. 1.7 1.0                8.8 1. 1.6  7.0
(Jin .)                 W k I                                                     80                  56                     0  g
Parls                    47                 so                 70                 9S                   as                                        3
isbi  Pa.wurtAb 1t mdi    anb  V      s at an  swq  d . It..
Of te1 eSlO l, m        Ound bid tt tI  *Wllsud to 95* lrt
flwo nms.                                                                                                                          m   -j x
o or ,
AF4N                                                                                                                                       -&
Occ 10



- 80 -
ANNEX 2-13
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHUNA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Transnort Parastatgls: Reforms Underway
1.   Actions in Prozresa and those Protosed under the Public Mntetrise
Project (PEP. ayproved by IDA Board in October 1987) for Reforming
Transnort Parastatals:
GRC:      The proposed TRP-2 will reinforce earlier reforms
introduced under TRP-1 to increase efficiency and eliminate
subsidies.
GPHA:    Needed reforms to improve performance being implemented
under the ongoing Ports Project (Credit 1674-GH).
G_:       The PEP is assisting in corporate planning.  The company
makes nominal profits and its operations have shown
considerable improvement during the last three years.
GCAA:     The Government is seeking to improve organization,
operational efficiency and cost-recovery with technical
assistance from bilateral agencies; negotiations in
progress.
BSL:      The Government has refused to provide any subsidies since
1984, and the company has been reorganized. It is seeking
foreign collaboration for joint operation which seems to be
the most appropriate solution. The PEP will assist in
financing studies on restructuring. Delineation of the
company's financial situation over the last four years is
still handicapped by lack of information and lack of
financial records. Outstanding debt exceeds the value of
the company's assets.
TSDC:     No Government subsidies are being given, and the Government
is actively negotiating with foreign firms for joint-
ownership and operation. The PEP will provide assistance
in completing a partial divestiture and restructuring.
2.   STC. OSA and CES (the three state-run bus companies)s  IDA's PEP
provided technical assistance for restructuring studies, and for
interim management support, though implementation is proceeding
slowly. TRP-1 financed restructuring studies which are being
reviewed by Government. Government provides no subsidies, but has
recently provided partial repayment of some pre-devaluation loans for
bus and imports since the companies are unable to cope with the
external shock of the 2000 percent devaluation, which raised the



- 81 -
ANNEX 2-13
Page 2 of 2
credit value of past loans many times. These companies have recently
reduced their excess staff significantly, and have considerably
improved operational efficiency. They compete with the larger
private sector very vell, at similar price levels, and are very
popular with the public as their buses are in good condition and they
provide back-up service in case of breakdown, and serve many
intercity routes where roads are bad and private sector buses refuse
to operate. However, they still have many organizational and
financial problems (such as inadequate middle-management-,
overstaffing, leakage of revenue, etc.). Government, under the PEP,
is trying to address these problems.
AP4IN
October 1990



- 82 -
ANNE£ 3-1
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Trunk Road Stabilization Program
Trunk Road Network
1.        Recent road inventory surveys of the trunk road network under
GMA put its total length at 14,430 km.  Table 1 in Annex 2-5 gives the
national breakdown by surface type and functional classification, while
Table 2 shows the distribution by surface type and surface condition as of
1988. Table 3 shows the distribution by region and functional
classification (A) as well as by region and surface type (B). The entire
trunk road inventory has been computerized by GHA's planning division into
a database system which is updated periodically.
2.        The trunk road network consists of 6,004 km of paved and 8,427
km of unpaved roads. The roads were classified into three condition
groups, namely good, fair, and poor. The road condition mixes in the paved
and unpaved road groups have been based on recent subjective surface
condition ratings by GHA's district and regional engineers. This is
expected to be updated during TRP-2 as a detailed roughness measurement
exercise for all roads in the trunk road network gets underway. For this
purpose a vehicle mounted Bump Integrator (BI) has been installed,
calibrated and properly tested on selected trunk road sections in the
Greater Accra area.
Required Naintenance and Rehabilitation Operations
3.        To bring a surface-treated road in poor condition (with a BI
reading of about 8,000 to 10,000 mm/km) to good (which has a BI reading of
about 2,500 to 3,500 mm/km), rehabilitation of the pavement in sections is
the required technical operation. This consists of the addition of a new
base course as necessary and a double bituminous surface treatment (DBST).
In some cases, embankments need to be raised or reconstructed together with
frequent shoulder repairs. The average base cost for this activity in
TRP-1 came to US$65,000 per km.
4.        For pavements that need restoration from fair to good condition
(BI readings of about 6,000 to 7,000 mm/km) resealing only is needed. This
includes the application of a single bituminous surface treatment (SBST) on
an otherwise still smooth and undamaged road surface, besides frequent
shoulder repairs. The average cost of this operation in TRP-1 was
US$30,000 per km. For major rehabilitation which includes complete
reconstruction of the road pavement and its lateral and cross drainage
system cost is taken as on average US$250,000 per km.
5.          Activities required on unpaved roads include reshaping and
resurfacing of the road formation as well as shoulder reconstruction and
improved cross-drainage, primarily using pre-cast pipe culverts or small



- 83 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 11
cast-in-place box culverts. Depending on the degree of deterioration,
gravel road treatment ranges from spot regraveling (periodic maintenance)
to complete reconstruction. Average cost of gravel road maintenance/
rehabilitation in TRP-1 amounted to US$15,500 per km.
Revised Trunk Road Stabilization Program
6.         Due to a serious lack of periodic and routine maintenance on
Ghana's trunk road network, a backlog had accumulated in the late 1980s, in
addition to the regular, maintenance needs of the trunk roads that make the
transition from good to fair and from fair to poor every year. The optimal
mix of the different conditions of roads in the entire network can be
determined on the basis of minimizing total transport cost over the whole
network. These costs are defined as the sum of new construction,
reconstruction, rehabilitation as well as periodic and routine maintenance
costs, in addition to vehicle operating costs which the country's motorized
vehicle fleet incurs. Given the limited data basis presently available
this optimal mix cannot be determined at this stage using analytical tools.
7.       For the purposes of the TRP series it is assumed that a desirable
mix (km) in the trunk road network is as follows:
Road Condition               Good       Fair        Poor       Total
Paved (Kin)                 4,395      1,079         530       6,004
in Z                           73         18           9         100
Unpaved                     5,409      1,896       1,123       8,427
in Z                           64         23          13         100
Total                       9,804      2,974       1,653      14,431
in 2                           68         21          11         100
8.         As regards paved roads, it was estimated that as of January
1988 (starting position for TRP-1) there were 1,704 km in good condition
(28Z), 2,655 km in fair condition (44S), and 1,645 km in poor condition
(272) (see Attachment 1, page 1). The corresponding lengths of unpaved
roads were, respectively, 1,432 km (17?), 3,344 km (40Z) and 3,651 km
(432). Overall trunk road conditions at that time were 3,136 km or
22 percent good, 5,999 km or 42 percent fair, and 5,296 km or 37 percent
poor. It is estimated that each year lflOth of the paved roads in good
condition make the transition to fair condition, and about 117th from fair
to poor condition. For unpaved roads, the corresponding fractions are both
1/7th.
9.        Since it is now planned to stabilize the trunk road network to
the desired mix shown in para 7 during a 10 year period (1988-1997), the
target mix each year can be determined by spreading the difference between
the desired condition mix as of January 1998 and the existing condition mix



- 84 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page-3- of 1-1
as of January 1988 over the ten year implementation period. Annual
physical outputs ar. shomn below which reflect 1908 and 1989 achievemnts
(RRMP and TRP-1, respectively), 1990 and 1991 expected outputs (TRP-1, TRP-
2) and 1992 to 1997 planned outputs (TIP-2, TRP-3. TRP-4). The latter were
fitted to likely budget and contracting capacities. Details of this
analysis are shown in Attachment 2.
Year    Resealing    Resurfacing    Regraveling      Total          Major
Periodic  Rebabilltation
__antenance .
1988        10            20               600        630            50
1989        83           141               750        974            50
1990       130           156               537        823            70
1991       150           398               615       1163           100
1992        87           355               579       1021           120
1993         4           256               730        990           120
1994       200           200               900       1300           120
1995       200           200               900       1300           120
1996       247           215              1019       1481           1S0
1997       347           214              1019       1580           150
Ioected Achievements under TRP-Series
10.       Attachment 1 (pages 1 and 2) shows the anticipated impacts of the
Ten Year Trunk Road Network Stabilization Program given in para 9 on the
annual road condition mixes, separately for paved, unpaved and all trunk
roads. The 1988 and 1989 periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works as
executed under RRMP and TRP-1 (January 1990 position) ;see Attachment 1,
page 1) have already brought the paved road condition mix to 302 good, 362
fair, and 34? poor, and the unpaved road condition mix to 29Z good, equally
292 fair, and 422 poor. This gives a combined road condition mix of 29Z
good, 32? fair, and 39? poor. At the end of TRP-1 (January 1992 position,
see Attachment 1, page 3) the paved road condition mix will be 38Z good,
28? fair, and 34? poor while the unpaved road condition mix will be 33?
good, 26? fair, and 422 poor. The combination of both paved and unpaved
road condition mixes will yield 35Z good, 262 fair, and 39? poor.
11.       The expected road condition mix at the end of TRP-2 (see
Attachment 1, page 2) (January 1994 position) would yield 51Z good,
26Z fair, and 23? poor under the paved road category. Under the unpaved
category the condition mix would be 43Z good, 23? fair, and 35? poor.
Accordingly, the combined mix would be 46Z good, 24? fair, and 30? poor.
TRP-3 would be completed by about the end of 1995 giving a road condition
mix of (January 1996 position) 61X good, 22? fair, and 17? poor for paved
roads, and 54? good, 212 fair and 25? poor for unpaved roads. The combined
mix at that time would be 572 good, 22? fair and 21? poor. TRP-4 would be
needed to achieve the desirable condition mix as given in para 7 above.
12.      The annual costs (in terms of base costs in mid-1990 prices) of
the required periodic maintenance and rehabilitation operations are given



- 85
ARMNE 3-1
Page 4 of 11
in the last two columns of Attachment 1, pages 1 and 2.  The annual costs
for periodic taintenance increase from US$10.6 m in 1988 to an estimated
US$41.9 m in 1997.  In the interim years the funding needs are between
US$25 m and US$35 m. This variation in annual funding needs for periodic
maintenance is related to the size of anticipated ICB and LCB lots and the
time overlaps of TRP-1, TRP-2, TRp-3, and TRP-4. The total base cost of
the ten year periodic maintenance program comes to US$ 315 m. Costing of
major rehabilitation works is of a more tentative nature and comes to some
US$263 m for a total of 1,050 km.
13.       Attachment 1, pages 3 and 4 shows the impact on the road
condition mix of Ghana's trunk road network if TRP-2, TRP-3 and TRP-4 would
not be implemented, e.g., if the periodic maintenance operations to remove
the vast maintenance backlog and the annual deterioration would be
abandoned at the end of TRP-1. It is, however, assumed that major
rehabilitation works and an annual MMU force account operation of 180 km
(30 km of resealing, 50 km of resurfacing, and 100 km of regraveling) would
be maintained. The results of this simulation show that the trunk road
condition mix (January 1998 position) without the trunk road stabilization
program would be 262 good, 242 fair and 502 poor, down from 222 good,
42? fair and 37? poor (January 1988 position).
14.       The results of the two analyses given in Attachment 1 (trunk
road network condition mixes with and without TRP-2, TiP-3 and TRP-4) are
shown graphically in Attachment 3. It is to be noted that the lengths in
'000 km shown are as of January of each year. Thus, 1988 shows the
starting position of the stabilization plan as of January of that year,
while 1998 shows the January position of that year after completion of the
10-year periodic road maintenance and rehabilitation works at the end of
1997.
AP4IN
October 1990



REPuSeU ar 0WA
Revised Tom Year Networl Stebiliatlo Plan
(1916-109)
NW Projected Roed Ceeditlo
Us# a111. Ift.er
Pavd 0(,004 VA)       Reb.         Unpaved (6,42? Km)       Ceabld (14,41 Mm)          w Amm
_ed    r.),   POOP  (I,OM V)   0ed   Fal    POeeO             Osd   F.ai    P"r          or.ute. M
Jm. lm Starting PeItio                     1704   26       1f4                1482   U4    61             81U     s" 
I Sietribstiem of te ate,               m       44X    173                 173    401    48t 25               4SX    873
Jam. 1SM Positioe w   1 IeIm.        b.  1,U4  2,446   2,025                 1,22? n,071  4,120          2,701  5,516. 4,164
1so6 lo""de    MeImt./Rshab. Pr*@.      80    -10    -20            50    No0   -200   -400           430   (291)   (410) C0.J   I1.3
Jam. i66 Peettlee u th 1M  UmIat.jIlbab. 1,614  2,4918 1655                  1,0   2,671   9,726         3,441  $,50   5664                                  0
X b)etblhubtle  of te abem 27X    41                    88o                        34      44X         243    873    55
Ja. 1860 Peeltem /* 1w66 NMmI*./Ibob.  .  1,461   2,40. 2,80                 1,50    ,M21  4,140         8,016  4,1!0 0,448
aM  ames""  "Ua.._ . Pre.              a04   -118   -161            5O    660   -263   -557         1,154    (386)  (76           26.115    12.6
Jan. 1860 Peettim with 1530 MmIst./lSomb.* 1,l06  S,l"   2,2                 2,416   2,486   8,578       4,222  4,54  5,68
I Oisteibutlee of tW abrve               0        3    8 4                 251    2M       425         26     a5    *so
Ja.. 1861 P?Ieloe *{  am MsImt.JRsheb.  1,029  2,011  2,867                  2,070  2,485  8,6n1         4,J9   4,446  0,199
16s0 Ispeate m.Imt.JIshab. Pere.        -     -1w0   -208           70    687   -212   -425         I,008    (O72)  (651)        24.9078    17.6
Jam. 1ef1 Poeliem with 153 Uelen.Jlehab. 2,05    1,1   21,061 .              2,707  2,22    8,498        4,769  4,074   $,56
X bielbteihte  of the                  tov34   55    $53                  SO      17X    411         8s3      Ml    so
Jam. 1661 Palte low  1661 Iba.jtboob.   1,J6   1,762  2,856                  2,820  2.162  8,614         4,176  4,065  6,170
11 Let             .                          -160   -44           100    nS   -28    -477          1.6S    (415    ()             .65        a z r     z
Jon. UM P2ete Io    th 1861 MmIat./1b. 2.          o16    low                6,085   2,0t4  3,887         6,410  3,5    5,145                            n
I Olirlibuttle  of the bre,.             483   2ox    801                  863   215       401         881    253   8so
Jan. 1963 Posltlao W.o 1861 MasltA.jeob.  2.525  1,640  2,049                2,S01   2,196  s,681        4,52   8,68    5,070
1662 Expected  sIn*t./fR.hb. Prog.     *22   -117   -406           120    679   -226   -468         1,201   (548)  to" 44".2646               s0
isn. 1963 Peoiton with 1962 U1amt./jIbRub. 2,897    1,52    1,514            8,20   1,6909  *,1t         0,247  8,462   4.02
3 Olatrlbbtlon of the above             491    253    253                   31    2414     W           483    243    *81



US mut ie  N/Yeer
Poved (8,004 ICA)     Roh*b.      UnpeWd (6,427 Kl)        Combeldw (14,481 IC)      per AnM*_
Good   Fa r   Poor  (1,060 Ku)  Good  FPir   Poor            CooW  FPlr   Poor        P*r.0*o. NOJ.Rhob,
Jan. 1904 Posltion w/o 1998 Mlant../R.b.  2,870  1,602   1,M81              2,611  2,1C0  8,400        5,462  8,766   5,101
190S Expotd  aialt./Rhobb. Proo.       284    434   -250          120    600   -267   -u88        1,064   (801)  (7)             21.92      s0
Jan. 1904 Poeition with 1M  Nuint./Rob. 8,074  1,566   1,51                8,611  1,618  2,62.7       6,66    ,417  4,266
X Distribution of Wm abov               5X    2an      2813               481    23       so         413    24X    80S
Jon. 162 Position w/o 1004 Maat.fftohab.  2,767  1,66    1,568              8,o6   2,1"   8,1O7        5,662   S,77  4,78
1*4 Expedted Vait.j.halb. Pro.         a6    -280   -a0           120   1080    443    -6         1,666   (57)   (0o)               4       8 10
Jn. 162 Position with 1604  ablat.11siab. 8,428  1,421   1,160              4,126  1,762  2,510        7,64    8,214  8,66
S Dlisrlbutlon of th  above *7X    24X    1og                             453    2Us    80n          52X    22       go
Joe. 16 Position W/o 12o  vlet./1 .  8,01   1,660   1,6                      8,56   2,128  2,76        6,8616  8.66    4,126
1S6n Expee loalt./ISshob. Pro".        400   -no   -2o0           120   1000   -8       -667      1,480   (66)   (01?)           84.90      80
Jon. 1096 Position with l06  oInt.1R1hob. 8,661   1,880    0                4,586   1,706   2,02       0,216   2,128   8,0o
3 DlislUtlon ot tmeab                   013    22X    173                 544X            253       257,      2s   2i
Jon. 10  Postlion W/o 1006 se at./    .  4,81    1,060    116               8,66    2,16   2,86        7,t00   8,6"   8,
1606 Expoete  Maint./Reh.b. Pr".       542   -277   -2            150   1119   -878   -740        1,66    (60) (1,011)           66.60   075*
Joe. 1907 Position with 1066 Malt./Rohb. 4;00C   1,281    76                5,006  1,812   1,006       0,01   8,048   2,87
S Distribution ofth  *bow               67X    213    18X                  SIX    223   1o          6n      21X    1N
Joe. 1991 Position w.o 1W M9T  t./teMhb.  8,604  1,466    0U                4,260  2,2609  1&,0        7,04  8,724  2,61U
1907 ExpectAd Maint./Rhb. Pr.o.        641   -877   -204          150   1119   478    -746        1,700   (760) (lo,1)          41,62    P.s
Jan. 1990 PosItlon wIth 1007 kist./Afhob. 4,896   1,079    580              5,409  1,66   1,1228       90,04  2*074  1,668
3 Distributioon   the *bove            7in      lOX     ON                64X    28X    183          soX    21X    11X
TOtAlSj   114640   A2.5
0 I
.b .4



REPUJLC OF  4ANA
SECOND TRASPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD CONDIMTONS W       PERIODIC MAIeMT
U   lR nR-2, TRP-  end TP-4
Pwve  (*,004 VA)      Robsb.      Unpeved (0,427 Ko)        Cbskld (1,481 lb)
Good   Fair   Poor  (1,060 go)  4ood   Fair   Poor            GO"d   fair   Poor
A. Situalion at End of TRP-1s
Jao.1991 Poo.with  P-I 1000 I In./R . 2,062   1,651  1,00t                   2,707   2,21   8.406        4,7    4,074   C,
3 Distribution of the aboe                8      SIX    853                 8       273   4413          S5      1       is
Jn.19# Poo. W/o loft  Iblnt.j     . Pr".  1,#5   1,7   21,816                2,810  2,M    8,614         4,176  4,06   6,o0
1901 EsxpooW ISP-1 Vlot.ib."Pr.   811   -120   -191                 100    464   -15    -800           775    (m      (600)
J84.1026 po..with Tl-P  101oI.' m. 1,16    11   1,066                        2,"4   2,1"   8,606         $,o1  5,010  5,70
X 3l0tributtoe of tt_bo.                  s      2o 1    8s                 88l    S6O    42            so      so1   s8
S. Trash Roa Coiltlon. v/0 U-It
J".1911 Positton  /66 ton    it./R   .   2,040   1,600  2,804                1,86   2180   8,11          4,^40  6,00    0,1
100 ftp.ud IEU mbon.Jsbab. Pr"o.         s0    -80    -40           120    1o0     -8      -7          110    (68)   (UT)
Ja".1666 Position with UN  Mbc../Rabob.    2,240   1,60   2,184              2,400   2,107  8,744        4,711  $,807   $,076
X Distribution of the obove               713X   213    #X                   u0     26      44S         883    273    41X
Joo.104 Positl.o W/o 1090 U.)nt.jRshob.   1,01   1,01  2,867                 2,181  2,t18   4,406        4,144  8,460  0,41
1908 Expectod NW Utboo.jhAb. Pr"g.       s0    -80    -60           120    a0    -88    -47           ;10    (61)  (117)
Jam.1994 Position with MWU 1ew../ eh.    2,11    1,5n1  2,1 ,               1,2n1  2,206   8,991        4,44   8,790  0,100
X botrluWtlo  of the abo eTX    20X 163    286                                      263    47X          s1i    863    4J1
C. Trurk Rood Condtiloo. */9 UP-I A -8
Ja.19116 Position w/a 1004 Urint./Rshab.   1,904  1,611  2,425               1,912  2,209  4,80          8906   8,7t    6,781
1004 Expse td VU Mbem./Rehab. Pro.       s0    -80    -a0           120    100    -8       -7 t         "0    (6)   (T17)
J e.1005 Position with kw lbUos./Rohab.    1,194  1,555   1,255              2,012  2,170  4,201         4,206   6,781   484          -      o
X Olstribetlon of the sov                 8       C as   as                  24#    20#    50           III    2 5    463           s .oc
Jon. 1066 Poition v/a 1066 IMWat.Rrbb.  1,675   1,562  2,477                 1,24  2,151   4,581          P0M   8,704  7,066             .
1am6 EaxpeotOd EU mboo./Reb. Preg.       0     -80    -50          10    100    -8    -4             10    (6)   (UT7)            U.  .._
Jn. 1990 Position with EWU Mbe./JRhnb.   2,175   1,521  2,807                1,624  2,119  4,494         8,665   $.041  d,701              "
# Distributioon of the above             as     aS      as                  221     to S               1to     263    471



Pavd (6,004 Ka)      R*hab       Unpave (t,427 KV)        Co*to4e  (14,431 1X)
Good   fair   Poor  (1.050 KM)  Good   Fair   Poos         Good   Fair   PO"r
D. Tndk Road CoaWilose w/o TlP-2, 4 -1 4
Jan.19? Position s/o 16M Iblab.h.   1,96?  1,52  2,125                    1,36    2,077  4,07          $0 *,    7,SU
1910 Expebed MM Vt.JII . Prg.           s0    -0    -a0          10    100    -3         7         IL"    ()   (It4)
J.1-    Poeltton wlth 1W   M t.jl .    2,15   1,492  2,326               1,6    2,044  4,720        3,0  3,5    ?,O
X Dietr)bwtboo *f Wheabo                s6x     11    so                 106    241    sx           2711  2416    41
JA.1m  Position W/o am             .    1,      1,407  1,"                1,45  1,    6,013                         7.61500
10 lapeeteW    i   o..jbsb. Pie.              40      -0         10    100    43       -7            S       )  ()
J..116 Peeitbo with MW 66e..       .    2,116    1,467  2,3               1,5    1X,65   4,06        3,714  1,414  7,33
X Slotribeb.. at Vh  ahoy               3x     t 241    3o               1       2X 2JX1    as       1     24      Us
10 I*
lob 1660~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



REPmL1C OF OKaIW
SECOND TRMT  REHABILITATION PROJECT
REVISED TEN YEAR TRW  11D  STABILIZATION PROOAM1 (1M  - SWt
Original
Stab IIblion Proram                  AcUal / Revlse  Program                   $bow*$ll
Y"a  *rn Typ of Opewation       Ragravel  Rose.I   Retrt.   Totl          Regrovol  Reool   Rswrt.   Trol          Per YTr  _culative
132 Per                              916       s0       409    187             000       10        20      080
190  Cmpleted   (W)                                                                                                      747      747
1s"  Prgrm_                          094      154       87S    1,473
101W La9 PhtS'(I-)                                                              4                            #8  7
10W9 LO  Ph"A    2 (1W-i                                                       106       62       109      206          409    1,240
974
1990 Program                       1,071      1S0       845    l,5S6
low Lc Pha        (-I                                                          161                         i -  161
1s0o  LCB Ph   2    Csl-                                                        26       20        27       78
190W  ice P    It 11 (1Wi                                                      160      100       100     8S0
S90, L.09   $e.  (P-i)                                                        200       10        29      289
1991 Peogram                       1,147      100       U80    1,087                                                     748    10,W
1of1 LCB Pbse  8.1 (P-i                                                        220       2         80      276
1601 Ice Phase 1.1 (U-)148                                                               62       lit      316
169S1  C Poto et 1TP-)                                                         100       10       107      217
s1091 Ic  Phas 1.2  SP-)                                                       160       60       160      8 0 n
so0t Prog"rm                       1,224      22        200    1,781                                                    474    1,466
106n  DC09  _    M                                                             254     -          100     8s4
166t 1EW  1C0AM                                                                280        4       100      804
i,on
190W Prora                           70       2         in     1,16                                                     no 7,178
190W  EW  0/l .tA   (UP-2)                           no                                   4       26      o0n
1904 FPogram                         76       262       15     1,160 .                   2               1,i l32;
1004 NE  20/CDA  (1W-8)                                                                  0       to      I'
199  Prgram                          76       265        6s    1,188
1696 NEW  09C/LCBA  (W4)                      2                                         200       200    1,3-
1,461
1997 Prsoe.                         -        -         -           0                                                  (1.461)   1,U60
1917 NEW 20/LCD   (UT-4)                                                     1,019      847       214    1,50
Total:          7,049    1,456    2,155  11,262           7,049    1,456    2,155   11,262              0        0
AF4DX
Oct 1590



Republic of Ghana
Second Transport Rehabilitation Project
Ten Year Trunk Road Network
Stabilization Plan
Length in '000 KM          (1988 - 1997)
12
10 
~~~~~~~~~~~~.                     ..   .   .,  .  ..   .  ..  ..   ,.   .   .     , .,....!
8-
8 .     .   .. ... . . . . . . ..   .. . . .   .    ... .   ......   .....=-.   ......
4-
2-
0 c
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998
Projected Road Conditions
IM    Good     1  Fair    -  Poor
Combined (Paved & Unpaved) Roads                                   ° =O.
f+ - A



Republic of Ghana
Second Transport Rehabilitation Project
Without Periodic Maintenance
(Under TRP-2, TRP-3 and TRP-4)
Lengt in '000 KM
12
10
8
6*
2
0
1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1.997 1998
Good   [:  Fair      Poor
0 (
Combined (Paved & Unpaved) Roads



- 93 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Bridge Rehabilitation Program
I.   Progress Report on Brid*e Works
1.        During the years 1982-1986, a country-wide inventory of all
bridges longer than 10 m on the national road network of Ghana was
conducted under a feasibility study. A total of 434 existing bridges were
inspected and 80 of them were found to be unsuitable or had already
collapsed. Fourteen bridges (3 new and 11 rehabilitated structures)
totalling 305 m have been completed under RRMP (BDP-1, see Table 1). Under
BDP-2, 20 bridges were earmarked for TRP-1 rehabilitation. However, due to
limited funds, the number of bridges was reduced to nine. An agreement was
signed between GHA and its bridge consultant in 1987 to design the
rehabilitation of the additional 20 bridges, now known as BDP-2 (9 bridges)
and BDP-3 (11 bridges). In 1989 final designs and tender documents were
submitted to GHA. A bridge package of nine bridges (BDP-2) will soon be
tendered under the ongoing TRP-1 (see Table 2).
2.        Table 3 shows the list of seven bridges (BDP-3) selected for
rehabilitation during TRP-2 and their cost breakdown. Detailed designs and
contract documents have already been prepared. Due to funding constraints
under TRP-2 four bridges from the original BDP-3 package had to be
discarded. All bridges listed in Tables 1, 2 and 3 are shown on the
attached bridge map (IBRD No. 22089).
II.  Bridge Maintenance Units (EMU)
3.        The feasibility study conducted by GHA's bridge consultant
brought out the need for systematic bridge maintenance. The recommendation
to set up Bridge Maintenance Units was accepted by both GHA and IDA in
1985.
4.        In February 1988 the first BMU was formed.  The Unit was set up
with the aim of performing the following tasks:
-    Plan and execute bridge repair works, including emergency
repairs;
-    Estimate the need for equipment and materials, handle their
repair, storage and distribution;
-    Serve as training centers for bridge personnel;
-    Estimate, request and account for budgetary allocations for
bridge maintenance;
-    Evaluate its own performance once a year.



-94-
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 3
5.        The plant and equipment on hand is not sufficient.  The number
of vehicles available is inadequate, besides, they are getting old and they
need more spares. The Unit needs the following additional vehicles which
will be provided under TRP-2.
Additional Vehicles for WU 1
No.    Description    Quantity            sttimated Cost (iv S)
Unit Cost       Total Cost
I      Tipper 8            2             30,000           60,000
2      Pick Up             2             12,000           24,000
3      Cross Country       1             13,000           13,000
4      Spares             202                             19,000
116,000
Say             120,000
6.        The BMU has two main sections namely:
-    Concrete Section, and
-    Steel/Bailey and Timber Section
Work such as formwork for concretes, cutting and bending of reinforcement,
precast elements, timber members and production of handrailings are done at
the Unit's Camp and carried to the various sites for installation.
7.        At present the Unit does not have the full complement of plant
and equipment and there are still vacant positions to be filled. Despite
the several obstacles such as delay in arrival of equipment and supplies,
the Unit has fulfilled its obligations.
8.        The running costs of the Unit were estimated to be about
033 m in 1989. The main objective of the BMU is to carry out routine and
periodic maintenance works on bridges. However, owing to the need to
attend to emergency works throughout the country, the pilot BMU is tied
down to only emergency works, excluding routine maintenance.



- 95 -
ANNE 3-2
Page 3 of 3
Tob4, 1.  LIST _           COULSW          3W-i   A)
Rfouie      Re"ko l       rtis No.       Te of Work
Northrn            6            19       Reontruetion
lEtern            43             1       Reconstru"lot
Accra              1 -, 9 eNd is         Rpair Works
Accra              1            11       Reooetrueion
Accra            1i        1 and 2       Replr Worko
Accr             412             1       Replr Works
shatl              4            is       RonstrucstAon of WingWall.
Ashanti          441             ?       Rconsttlon  kf Ik
llpet      ~         1   Mend J2         Rapal r *rke
Volts              s             1       ReoXntrution of Dock
Table 2.  LIST OU ORIORS     NSRAZLAT            I UI IDP-2 (TR-1)
Road  Bridge       I.v,.t.nt (in 3066)
Region        No.      No.    Local  Forelmn   Total         Tp of Work
Brong-Ahafo  321         2       so       176      284       Ropet r
Contra        118       6       573    1,832    2,406        Repalr
Northern       25        1       48       998   1,04         Reconstruction (frry)
Northorn      6a         C      1S       664      822       Reconstruction
Upper           7    11,12      163       378      526       Repai r
Upper         6s5        1       14        U8       67       Repair
volta          28        2       26       182    1S         Repair
Western        19        5      1SO       677      82n       Repair
Total                         1,178    4,907   6,868
Note: Coot estimates reflect end 1990 prlce.
Tabl 3.  LST OF IDRES SELECI  FOR OM-3: (TSP-2)
Road  Bridg           Investment         Type of
Region        No.     No.               s0lo          Work
Northern    6s1          1                637         Reconstruction
Northern       65        4                665         Reconstruction
Western        61        1              1,789         Reconstruction
Western        61        3                461         Reconstruction
Ashanti        63        6              1,16          Reconstruction
Ashanti        16        8              2.00          Reconstruction
6,962
Note: Cost estimates ref let end-1990 prices.
AF4IN
October 1990



-96-
ANNEX 3-3
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Rehabilitation of Major Trunk Roads
Backaround
1.        A total of US$1.43 m has been provided for detailed engineering
design and preparation of tender documents of major rehabilitation works on
three of the country's primary roads. Total rehabilitation costs in end
1990 prices are estimated at US$68.5 m (base cost). This amount would have
to come from co-financing agencies since the financing of rehabilitation
works is not part of TRP-2, only their engineering preparation.
2.        GHA has prepared separate terms of reference for each of the
three sub-projects. It was agreed that foreign consultancy input would put
emphasis on detailed pavement investigation and redesign. Shortlisted
foreign firms would associate with local firms. On each sub-project, the
foreign firm would provide an experienced pavement engineer for the
duration of the engineering investigations and design period.
ACCRA - YAMORANSA Road Rehabilitation (115 Km)
3.        The 115 km Accra - Yamoransa road is part of the Accra -
Takoradi road which constitutes an integral part of the ECOWAS Coastal
Trans-West African Highway in Ghana. The road also links Accra with the
port of Takoradi and serves the administrative and socio-economic needs of
the Central and Western Regions.
4.        Since its construction many years ago, the lowest traffic volume
ever recorded on the road was 1,600 vehicles per day (vpd) while the peak
volume recorded was 3,600 vp'd. The high traffic volume confirms the road's
importance to the country.
5.        A recent pavement survey conducted by GHA established that on
account of the intense use over the years, about 75X of the surface
treatment and 35Z of the base course are exhibiting signs of severe stress
and are beginning to fail. These indications of advanced pavement
deterioration confirm that early rehabilitation is urgently required before
the pavement fails completely and reconstruction is required which would be
even more costly.
6.        In light of the foregoing and the given ECOWAS Transport Accord
(ETA) that all sections of the Trans-West African Highway are to meet
asphaltic concrete design standards, the road has been programmed for
rehabilitation during the 1991 - 1995 period. By the time it is completed,



-97
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 3
about 901 of the coastal Trans-West African highway network in Ghana will
also be completed.
7.        Engineering design and feasibility studies are planned for
1991192. Rehabilitation cost are estimated at US$27.1 m at end 1990 prices
in terms of base cost. Design and supervision consultancies would add
about 6Z. If 10X physical contingencies are added, total costs (excluding
price contingencies) come to US$31.6 m or US$280,000 per km. More detailed
costing would become available when engineering and design are completed.
TEMA - AFLAO Road Rehabilitation (166 Km)
8.        The Tema - Aflao road has a length of 166 km and links Ghana's
capital city Accra to Lome in Togo. The road also serves administrative
and socio-economic purposes in south-east Ghana.
9.        Due to lack of effective maintenance in the past, the road has
severely failed over many sections. GHA's mobile construction unit was
used in 1986 to resurface the section between Tema and Sogakope at the
Lower Volta Bridge. This work has been completed and makes the road
motorable again. Presently selected sections between Sogakope and Aflao
are being resurfaced, especially the section between Denu and Aflao.
10.       In 1988, Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW), Frankfurt,
Germany, agreed to finance the rehabilitation of the Lower Volta Bridge.
This investment needs to be complemented by the rehabilitation of the Tema
- Aflao road to serve the needs of both local and regional traffic.
11.       Prefeasibility studies were completed in 1987 for the
rehabilitation of the entire road. Preliminary economic analyses yielded
rates of return of 20? for an asphalt wearing course and 25? for double
surface dressing.
12.       The present cost estimate in end 1990 prices comes to US$29.2 m.
If design and supervision cost (6Z) as well as 102 physical contingency are
added, total cost (excluding price contingencies) would come to US$34.0 m.
The average rehabilitation cost therefore would be about US$205,000 per km.
TAKORADI - AXI( Road Rehabilitation (63 1m)
13.       The port of Takoradi was opened to seaborne traffic in the mid-
1950s. It has since served as the collector point for the export of
minerals and the import of goods into the Western Region of Ghana.
14.       The Takoradi - Axim Road has a length of 63 km and primarily
serves export/import flows between Takoradi port and the Western, Brong
Ahafo and Ashanti regions. Present daily traffic volume is around 1,800
vehicles. The road was built 30 years ago with a bitumen surface and has
since long outlived its useful life. Despite some maintenance operations



ANNMX 3-3
Page 3 of 3
in the recent past. there are signs of severe failure over most sections of
the road. Bridges are narrow and structurally unsound and will not be able
to safely carry future traffic loads.
15.       In view of the critical role this road has to play under the
ERP, GHA has proposed rehabilitation of the road and upgrading it to an
asphaltic concrete surface. With anticipated increases in timber, cocoa,
copra and rubber production and the opening of the Axim - Elubo road to the
Ivory Coast, traffic on the road will increase in volume and axle loads.
16      - The propoaed rehabilitation project involves-the-widening of the
carriageway to 7.3 m with 2 m shoulders on both sides. Lay-bys are to be
designed to cater to the large volume of medium and heavy vehicles which
use the road. All bridges need reconstruction, while the pavement needs to
be widened and reconstructed.
17.       A preliminary economic evaluation of the Takoradi - Azim road
gives a rate of return of 43S. Rehabilitation cost are estimated at
US$12.2 m (base cost in end 1990 prices). When design and supervision cost
(OX) as well as 1OS physical contingencies are added, total cost (excluding
price contingencies) come to US$14.2 m. This figure does not include
bridge reconstruction cost. Rehabilitation cost per km would come to
US$225,000.
AF4IN
October 1990



-99-
Annex 3-4
Page 1 of S
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ministrv of Roads & Highways
Workforce Development & Training Component
Imtroduction
1.        Despite extensive Government and donor inputs since
independence, productivity in the road transport sector continues to be
affected by shortages of skilled workers and managers at all levels. This
problem was identified in the early 1970s during the appraisal of the First
Highway Project financed by the Bank and was further substantiated in the
Project Performance Audit Reports of the First and Second Highway Projects
prepared in 1984. In all, roughly $17 million was invested in technical
assistance (about 114 manlyears) and training to alleviate skill shortages
and provide longer term institutional development. Although information is
not available regarding the numbers of workers trained during the First,
Second, and Third Highway Projects, the Fourth Highway Project (RRMP) and
TRP-1 provided training for 4300 workers in both the public and private
segments of the sector. Although workforce development is a never-ending
process due to attrition and continual changes in the workplace, a critical
mass of skilled managers and technicians has yet to be achieved.  In this
regard, it has become evident that improvements in productivity and
vorkforce efficiency cannot be achieved without parallel improvements in
the workplace environment, the reward and incentive system, and the work
culture in general. Most importantly, it is essential that changes be made
in the level of commitment to these issues by both the Government and the
Bank during subsequent projects.
2.        The implications of this commitment require a combined effort to
address the various issues that impact upon workforce productivity in an
integrated manner. These issues includet
(a)  The provision of the necessary means (i.e.; tools, equipment,
supplies, etc.) for workers and managers to perform their daily
work assignments. This implies also, the provision of adequate
operating budgets.
(b)  The development of quality control attitudes and accountability
in all aspects of work outputs.
(c)  The implementation of an adequate reward system in the public
sector and the encouragement of premium pay scales in the
private sector for scarce skills and quality work outputs.
(d)  The development of proper workforce deployment practices in the
public sector, similar to the private sector, whereby only those



- 100
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 5
workers essential to the functions of each organization are
employed.
It is important to understand that any attempts to resolve some, but not
all, of the above factors will prevent achievement of the workforce
development objectives and general sustainability of the project.
3.        As a continuation of workforce development efforts carried out
under the RRMP and TRP-l, the proposed TRP-2 will support training programs
for GHA, MRH, and private road contractors as outlined in the following
paragraphs.
Ghana Highway Authority
4.        While precise figures are unavailable, it is estimated that
between 3,000 to 5,000 GHA employees have received some type of training
over the past ten years. This includes a variety of overseas courses for
high level staff (estimated at approximately 60 to 100 persons), training
at local institutions, short courses in-house, and on-the-job training
exercises. These inputs were augmented by the extensive use of technical
assistance experts whose dual function was to assist in the management and
operation of GRA and also to transfer their expertise to local
counterparts. With an existing workforce of approximately 6500 employees
it will be necessary to continue further support for training in
conjunction with other efforts to improve workforce management. Under the
proposed project, support will be provided for the Road Training and
Production Unit (RTPU), the Mechanical Training and Production Unit (MTPU),
external seminars, short courses and work attachments, and in-house
training courses as follows:
(a)  RTPU.  Operating under severe budgetary constraints, the RTPU
only managed to achieve 8 percent of its 1990 training and
production targets during the first quarter. It is noteworthy,
that this percentage corresponds to the 8 percent of requested
budget (¢70.0 m) for the same time period. If support to the
existing RTPU, and the creation of a second RTPU, is to be
effective, it is essential that a minimal operating budget
(¢80.0 m per RPTU per year for a total of 0160.0 m) be
guaranteed by GHA and that a financial plan be drafted to
support the RTPU's beyond project completion. Under these
conditions, the following investments are included in the
project:
(i)     Heavy Equipment, Light Equipment, & Tools    $500.000
(ii)     Supplies and Materials                          270,000
(iii)     Technical Assistance (24 mlm)                   312,000
$1,082,000
Under appropriate conditions, it is estimated that each RTPU
could train about 150 employees (versus the present average of
54/year) and repair and/or maintain approximately 30 kilometers
of road annually. It is important to stress that based upon



- 401 -
Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 5
experience to date, these investments will be useless unless
they are supported by the annual budgetary allocations necessary
for the RTPU's to carry out their planned activities.
(b)  tTPU. In part due to its close proximity to the Central Stores
and access to spare parts, the MTPU has been able to achieve
reasonable training and production targets during the past
several years. In 1988, 90 employees participated in training
activities while 4 tractors, 4 light trucks, and 2 engines were
placed in gervice. During. 1989, 269.employees (of which 150
were drivers and equipment operators) received instruction while
2 heavy trucks, 1 loader, and 2 bulldozers were repaired. With
projected training requirements of approximately 550 employees
for the period 199111993, investments for the MTPU include the
followings
(i)     Shop Equipment and Hand Tools                 $100,000
(ii)     Technical Assistance (24 mlm)                  312,000
$412,000
Operating budgets for the MTPU during this three year period are
estimated to be ¢25.0 m per year.
'c)  Staff Training.  As a continuation of both overseas and in-
country staff training activities carried out under earlier
projects, TRP-2 will provide support for the attendance of
senior and mid-level staff at (i) international conferences and
seminars, (ii) short courses, (iii) work attachments with
similar highway authorities and related agencies in other
countries, and (iv) seminars, conferences, and short courses
conducted at local training and management institutions. Costs
for these activities are as follows:
(i)     International Conferences and Seminars         $100,000
(ii)     Short Courses and Higher Level Training         220,000
(iii)     Work Attachments                                100.000
$420,000
(iv)     Local Seminars and Short Courses                 60,000
International conferences and seminars are estimated to run one
to two weeks in duration and would be available for
approximately 25 persons at an average cost of US$4,000 each.
Short courses are estimated to run from two weeks to a maximum
of three months and would be available for approximately 20
persons at an average cost of US$8,000 each. Work attachments
are estimated to run from one month to three months and would be
available for approximately 20 persons at an average cost of
US$8,000 each. Disbursements for these activities would be
based upon actual expenditures and as part of an annual overseas
training plan to be prepared in advance by GRA. Local seminars



-102 -
Annez 3-4
Page 4 of 5
and short courses would also be Implemented as part of an annual
GHA training plan.
Ministry of Roads and Hithwaas
5.        To assist senior and mid-level staff in maintaining contacts
with their peers in other countries and to obtain current information on
roads technology and management, the project will provide support for staff
participation at overseas conferences, seminars and short courses. As more
support for these types of activities will be forthcoming in the proposed
Feeder Roads Project, this support is intended to act as a bridge between
present training needs and the implementation of the proposed project.
US$50,000 will be allocated for this category for implementation according
to an 18 month training plan to be prepared at the beginning of the
project.
Contractor Training
6.        Due to severe economic conditions and lack of contract
management experience over the past three decades, the local construction
industry has not yet attained a suitable level of proficiency needed for
the successful implementation of road maintenance contracts. In an effort
to alleviate this situation, the project will finanie a variety of training
and information dissemination activities for the benefit of private
contractors. A series of contract management workshops will be conducted
at various locations around the country providing instruction in (i)
contract bidding procedures, (ii) contract administration, (iii) site
management, (iv) road maintenance and repair technology, and (v) other
topics of concern to local contractors. These workshops, covering periods
of one day to one week, will be conducted by GRA training personnel, GRA
senior staff, technical assistance experts, and local consultants as
required. In addition, a number of training positions in the RTPU's will
be made available to foremen and road supervisors employed by private
contractors. Both activities will be financed from a US$540,000 allocation
to cover the costs of conducting the workshops, logistical support, and
RTPU operational expenses based upon a unit cost per trainee. GRA will
draw up an annual countrywide training plan commencing with the first year
of the project with the objective of conducting 8-10 workshops during each
year of the project. Efforts will also be made to invite 2 - 4 road
foremen or supervisors from the private sector to each RTPU training
session.
Cost
7.        The total cost of this project component is US$2,564,000 (see
following Table for details.)
AP41N
October 1990



hO      - -- -- - -- - - -- -- - -- a - -- -- -- -- -
.  - ~~~I1    I} 1I
1     tIi..A            I I
S lF    1 3 l---- ----- -- - ---1|
i    I } I----                 - 
i~I 



-104-
ANNEX 3-5
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
OHA Eauipment Status and Requirements
1.          Even though GHA carries out all construction, periodic and portion
of routine maintenance by contract, a large volume of routine maintenance and
emergency works also has to be carried out by force account due to the high
percentage of roads in poor condition. As the implementation of the trunk road
network stabilization program progresses, the annual routine maintenance effort
will reduce in both physical terms and resource requirement to a normal level
of effort by 1998. GHA will need to review and balance the size of its force
account with its road maintenance work load determined annually, using the
maintenance management system (MMS). As the percentage of the roads in good
condition increases and the periodic maintenance effort decreases, GHA should
reduce its equipment holding and size of its labor force.
2.          The attached table shows GHA's present equipment holding, new
equipment already ordered, requirement based on the HMS, and replacement and
additional requirements.   Based on mid-1990 prices, the replacement cost is
estimated to amount to US$12.4 m. This is an amount accumulated over the past
several years due to a shortage of funds. Replacement of all the US$12.4 m worth
of equipment at one time would have to be viewed in the light of GHA's ability
to effectively utilize the equipment both in increased demand of manpower and
operating funds. It would be unrealistic to assume that GHA would be able to
match the manpower and operating costs for a one time order of US$12.4 m worth
of equipment. Thus, it was decided to finance under TRP-2 one quarter of the
total equipment replacement requirement of US$3.0 m and US$2.0 m worth of spare
parts. However, since this falls short to cover the routine maintenance and
emergency work load, Government will need to seek additional funds from other
donors.
AP41N
October 1990



-105-                          A       I3-5
t         .     .   .   .    -   ---  -   -   --        -   -    --  -    2 d 
*                                                   NrrwT~~~n 1 ODI  1 
----       ~.  .. .- ..-     ...- - - - -- ---- - - - - -
-__-----------__------------------
t~~ *1*SSSSSISISSISIIISSISUUCR'''
--------------0---- --------
i ~        ~        t !                     U  TXta 
----------------------------------
-                 - -  - -h--- - -------a-a  -  -a-a ---- -   - -
t ~~~~ .   ,         . ..  ... =       .. .se    e
- -------------------------------
llll,l||l'll*||*||||l'll.||    goT|
I  .      ________________________________
c   &                                     
p.~_              _   _   _   _  _   _ _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _  _
aI - --------…-
_ _    _   _   _ _   _   _  _   _ _   _   _   _   _ _   _   _   _
-!    -    .  .4                  uu.4               .4.4,4|s*ast2
__________________________________f
'(Ii~~~     o    **o""     
| § 2 pp Ri! 2



Ui Xm    Currt Se
us$
ItemS.. keer4ptl.e          Seg. Ult    Ava I.   OvLlor.    id-1M0         c". X              0 
1 -I -                         -  I   ."___1 _I 
#0. -  TsIP    4 0         1             24    1   0   141,600    101   0         1     0    I       I        Of
U4.      ACTw (*AIC)            6    I        1  12?   1 23,000   11U1  414,O001    0    9           I        0 
#5.    JUAXCAVAlU              12    I   *   I   1    1 00,000   1 01           0 1    0    1        I        0 1
00.    VASiNK                   6 I      10    1  0       46.000  1                     0    1 0  01
V.    VS.R UU3(8       )        S    I   S 1       4       6,600     S J  199,SO1    0 W o                    o
Is.     mTti                    S    I   17   1   9     4,000   1111  604,0001    4               1   4f 1   ,
So.    _IL L                         1   21   I   12      60,000        O1,260,0        0t 1 o           "s0,01I
40.    IL1U11 lIM=R           *0   I   0   18,001  1261   100,60001    2                          2S    10060
41.        VA                  12    1   2   I   0   1lt00   l0  0l                     0 l          I l 
42.    IhM   I n o                        1 1    60,000    60,000    14      00         4                 86006
|   |   |    | X1l  U,  tO |   tU    |  "   12,M,40     
WP41M
M4tim
^_ s0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
w_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



- 107 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Railway Rehabilitation Program
Locomotives
1..       As noted in pars 2.32 and Annex 2.11, GRC is currently facing
capacity constraints arising from shortage of locomotives and is unable to
carry freight offered to it. The only major relief which can be expected
in the short term will come from the rehabilitation of class 1851
locomotives, to be carried out under British ODA financing which is under
negotiation.
2.        The general overhaul of the GM-Henschel class 1651 locomotives
which were put into service in 1979 is overdue. The project will finance
this overhaul which will be carried out either by the manufacturer or a
specialized firm to be selected after limited competitive bidding.
However, in order to keep a maximum number of locomotives operating, this
overhaul should not be undertaken before the completion of Class 1851
rehabilitation. Altogether, it is expected that the locomotives component
of the project will eventually provide to GRC the motive power capacity
required to meet current traffic needs and expectations for the next five
years.
3.        The proposed contract being negotiated with France (CCCE) is for
nine new mainline locomotives of 2250 HP with Caterpillar engines. The
package will include installing special maintenance facilities in GRC
premises, and a four-year maintenance contract. While there is not much
field experience in Africa in using this engine with the proposed French
locomotives, the maintenance agreement will reduce associated risks. These
heavy locomotives with 16 ton axle loads can be used only on the Western
Line; the project therefore includes strengthening of some bridges on the
Western Line to make full use of the locomotives. The remaining new
locomotives to be bought will be of 1600-1800 HP range, to enable them to
operate on all the three lines.
Throudh Sleeler Renewal
4.        In order to complete the renewal of the sleepers in bad
condition on the Western Line, the project will finance the replacement of
about 165,000 sleepers on the northern part of the line, for an estimated
cost of US$2.6 m.
ImLrovements to Sianallint System
5.        During the first project, the old manual signalling system of
the Western Line was replaced by a new electric system locally operated,



ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 3
but for the present time, there is no locking between the signals and the
position of the turnouts. Therefore, in order to improve safety of
operation, the project will finance the installation of facing Points locks
for an estimated cost of US$1.5 m.
6.        At the present time, the signalling and telecommunication system
cannot be repaired with the desired speed.  Given the lack of
transportation means, field engineers and trouble shooters have to travel
most of the time on regular trains leading to waste of time and operation
disruptions. In order to improve the efficiency of the repair-crews, the
project will finance three vehicles (two rail cars and one 4X4 truck) which
will be equipped with adequate-tools and measurement devices for an
estimated cost of US$0.9 m
Vamons
7.        There is a shortage of some selected types of wagons for which
the demand is increasing. This is especially the case for low siders as
well as modern vans with sliding doors, of which the procurement will be
financed by the project. Some of the new wagons to be bought from France
will be the heavy gondola type, to be consistent with the heavy (2250 HP)
locomotives.
Crane
8.        Given the recently acquired new 80 tons crane, IDA has endorsed
the recommendation of the consultant that the acquisition of an additional
80 ton crane to remove derailed rolling stock is not necessary. Instead,
it is proposed to rehabilitate one existing diesel 60 tons crane, at an
estimated cost of US$0.6 m.
Workshol EQuipment
9.        The equipment at the Sekondi main workshop is generally in poor
condition. Therefore, it is proposed to carry out under the project a
diagnostic survey of this equipment and to refurbish as first priority the
most needed machines and travelling cranes. These two components will be
car-ied out by a firm specialized in the maintenance of industrial
facilities after limited competitive bidding. The cost of this component
is estimated at US$1.0 m.
10.       An amount of about US$5.1 m for spare parts purchase over three
years is included in the project to supplement the amount of US$1.5 m in
foreign exchange which is released each year up to 1993 by GOG.
Drainage
11.       Some short portions of the Western Line are occasionally subject
to wash out and floods due to the poor initial design of the drainage
system. The improvements of these sections which include some short



- 109
ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 3
realignments, are included in the project at an estimated cost of
US$0.6 m.
Studies
12.       Given the traffic growth expectations on the Western Line, the
improvement of its transport capacity should be considered in a co-
ordinated and comprehensive way. A study is included in the project to
assess the need for and the economic feasibility of the various components
of a global and coherent improvement of the Western Line capacity over the
next 5 to 10 years which is designated as the Western Line Development
Plan. These components include:
-    Track realignment, to ease sharp curves and steep gradients
which contribute to accidents;
-    Increase of axle load and wagon's pay load;
-    Utilization of heavier and more powerful locomotives;
-    Lengthening of crossing loops;
-    Utilization of air brakes on selected types of rolling stock;
-    Possible increase of tipping capacity at Takoradi for manganese
and bauxite wagons;
-    Study on container handling facilities at Kumasi.
13.       Technical assistance will be provided under the project for an
estimated cost of US$2.6 m with the following distribution:
(a)  108 man-months for the functions listed below:
(i)     Computerization of procurement and stock keeping;
(ii)     Mechanical engineer specialized in diesel technology
for the main workshop;
(iii)     Electrical engineer for the main workshop; and
(iv)     Running sheds supervisor for Sekondi and Kumasi.
(b) 108 man-months for essentially line positions in the following
fields:
(i)     Signalling and telecommunications;
(ii)     Finance and accounting;
(iii)     Carriage and wagon maintenance; and
(iv)     Operation and marketing;
Training
14.       The Project also provides training of GRC staff at a total cost
of US$1.2 m. Details are shown in Attachment 1.
AP4IN
October 1990



-  110-....   ..,'
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 1
Page   of 3
Ghana Railway Corporation
Workforce DeveloDment & Training Component
lackstround
1.        During the past decade, the steady decline in rail service and
the deterioration of GRC's physical assets have been closely related to the
low level of worker productivity. As part of GRC's awareness of the
negative impact of poor workforce management, it made substantial progress
in dealing with this-issue. -In 1.984, GRC has approximately 13,Q000
authorized job positions of which 11,082 were actually filled. At that
time, productivity in terms of traffic units per employee was approximately
28,000. Adhering to targets that would gradually reduce the overall
numbers of employees to 6,000 by 1995, GRC had almost achieved this
objective by 1990 with about 6,900 on the payroll. Confirming the wisdom
of this strategy, the number of traffic units per employee has risen to
70,000 indicating a 250 percent increase in productivity in parallel with a
40 percent reduction in staff. In addition to the improvements in staff
deployment, GRC has also initiated an incentive system tied to occupational
status and productivity. Key personnel are given professional allowances
ranging from 10 percent to 25 percent of their normal salaries, while all
employees receive a yearly bonus (one month's extra salary) tied to the
achievement of annual productivity targets. Bonuses are also given to
employees for 'Best Worker Award', 'Best Kept Section Award' and "Special
Achievement Award'.
2.        Another factor that has specifically affected the operating
status of the locomotive fleet was the traditional system for recruiting
and deploying locomotive drivers. Until recently, locomotive drivers were
drawn from the lowest grade levels of GRC. Unskilled and mostly illiterate
employees would gradually be promoted to driver assistants and ultimately
would assume full responsibility for train operation as a result of their
seniority. Recognizing the effect of deploying drivers with limited
capacity to properly operate and maintain this costly and sophisticated
equipment, GRC has recently raised job entry requirements for the
recruitment and deployment of locomotive drivers who must now have at least
an 'O' level education. With the continued reduction of the overall
payroll and through normal attrition, it is anticipated that within several
years, locomotive drivers will be of a higher caliber and much more
competent to properly operate and maintain the locomotive fleet.
3.        In addition to addressing the issues of workforce deployment and
productivity incentives, GRC has long been concerned with the training and
upgrading of staff in all departments. To this end GRC has operated a
training center at Takoradi and has supported the participation of
employees in external training courses and programs both in-country and
overseas. Due to lack of operating budgets, training aids and staffing
problems, the training center has deteriorated over the years and has been
operated at a very low level of efficiency. Trainees used to spend almost
all of their time on theoretical topics and receive very little practical



,, -111 -..
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 3
instruction. In an effort to correct this situation, support was provided
under the Railway Rehabilitation Project and TRP-1 to construct a new
training center adjacent to the Takoradi Workshop.
Support for Workforce Development Under TRP-2
4.        Although previous investments only partially achieved their
training objectives, GRC has made progress in the areas of workforce
deployment and management. The major tasks remaining in this area are the
equipping af the new training center, the start-up and scheduling of the
new training curriculum, the provision of adequate training budgets, and
the continuation of management training at external institutions. In this
regard, TRP-2 will provide support in the following manner:
(a) Training Equipment. Supplementing equipment to be purchased
under TRP-1, US$500,000 will be allocated for additional tools
and training aids needed to achieve the level of practical
instruction required by the new curriculum. This will include
items such as machine tools, electrical test equipment, hand
tools, teaching aids, demonstration devices, and duplicating
machines. An allocation of US$250,000 will also be provided for
training supplies and materials that will be consumed during the
training process such as steel stock, sheet metal, welding rods,
fasteners, wire, paint, etc.
(b) Conferences, Seminars, and Work Attachments. In order to permit
senior and mid-level staff to attend international conferences
and seminars related to their professional fields, the project
will provide funds for travel and related expenses over a five
year period. In addition, the costs related to work attachments
in similar institutions and organizations in other countries
will be covered under this component. US$200,000 will be
allocated for these international activities, while an
additional $50,000 will be allocated for conferences and
seminars conducted within Ghana. The above activities will be
implemented according to a semi-annual plan to be prepared by
GRC's Training Section.
(c) In-House Training. In addition to normal training to be
conducted at the new training center, GRC staff will
periodically benefit from special courses and seminars that will
be conducted by recognized railway and management specialists.
The fees, travel expenses and related local costs of these
activities will be financed under the project at a cost of
US$150,000.
(d) Logistical Support. An integral part of in-house training will
involve the transportation of trainees to and from the training
center and to field sites for practical instruction. Assistance
will be provided under the project for the procurement of one
minibus and one light truck at a cost of US$50,000.



- 112 -
ANNEX 3-6
Attachment I
Page 3 of 3
5.        GRC has not yet completed an adequate plan for the remaining
investments for the training center under TRP-l, nor for future investments
under TRP-2. It is essential that GRC prepare a detailed training plan for
the coming five year period covering the following topics:
(a)  A full list of training equipment and training aid requirements
including courses where they will be used, specifications, and
estimated costs.
(b)  A program schedule and staffing plan for the first year of
operation.
(c)  An annual budget for the first year of operation including
salaries, overhead costs, costs of lodging and feeding trainees,
and costs of materials and supplies.
Cost
6.        The total cost of this component is shown below.
OHANA RAILWAY CORPORATION
Training Costs
Equip-   mater-   Exten.    Inst.     Tech.   F..a/      Total
mont     iaIs      T       Trg.      Acst.   A low.
a.  Training      500,600   250,000                                        750,000
FacilItiet
b.  Contfr.nces/                    2,000   60,00                         260,00
Soi nart/Work
Attachments
c.  In-house                                  5,000    100,000            150,000
Training
d.  Logistic      50,000                                                   50,000
Support
TOTAL        55,0m    250,000   200,000  100,000       100,000   0  1,200,000
AF4IN
October 1990



-  -  - 113 -  --                 ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Institutional Suinport to MTC
Back_ground
1.        In March 1986, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDPY
provided assistance to MTC by vay of two experts to set up a proper
planning division and train planning staff in different aspects of
transport planning. The UNDP assistance was very timely and gave the
needed support to MTC's newly created planning division. The UNDP experts
set up an information center which was provided with a computer. A library
in MTC was established and the staff was trained in transport planning and
project appraisal. With growing activities, the planning division strength
which was a mere four in 1986, grew to eighteen by 1988 and it covered all
modes of transport. The UNDP experts completed their assignment in
September 1988.
2.        At the start of TRP-1, even though foundations for a proper
planning division had been laid, it was still not fully matured as it had
hired a number of young graduates who required training and exposure. The
transport sector needed institutional support and studies of a number of
issues facing it. The MTC requires additional accommodation and office
improvement as it was badly congested and ill equipped. These issues were
addressed in TRP-1 which provided IDA assistance in the form of sector
policy studies, MTC staff training and office improvement.
Proaress under TRP-1
3.        In 1988 MTC was, for the first time, given the responsibility of
directly executing an IDA project which involved project management,
monitoring, implementation, procurement according to IDA guidelines, and
project accounting. This required reorganization of the planning division.
Subsequently it was therefore bifurcated into two units - the Planning,
Budget and Research Unit (PBRU) and the Implementation and Monitoring Unit
(IMU). Each of these units are headed by a Director and the two Directors
report to the Chief Director of the planning and implementation division
(PID). Technical assistance was made available to the PID to implement the
project and to give on-the-job training for implementation.
4.        The MTC conducted a number of studies under TRP-1 to seek
solutions facing the transport sector. A comprehensive 'Road Transport
Sub-sector Study" (RTSS) was conducted in which the various transport
problems and possible solutions were identified. Government has acted on
most of the recommendations of this study. A Bus Company Restructuring
Study (BCRS) has been completed which is assisting Government in its
ongoing work on reorganizing the three public sector bus companies. A



-  114 -             --
ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 3
financial systems study was conducted for the Ghana Civil Aviation
Authority (GCAA) and this will enable setting up of proper financial
systems in GCAA. A financial information study was conducted for Black
Star Line (BSL) to identify problems of accounting and financial health of
BSL. A 'Data Processing* study to establish the needs of four parastatals
(OSA, STC, CES and GCAA) was conducted. The growing transport bottlenecks.
congestion of roads and comnuter problems of Accra were studied through an
'Accra Urban Transport Options Study'. In addition to these studies which
were conducted by consultants (both local and foreign) with PID staff
assistance, the PID itself conducted two major surveys, 'The Road Tariff
Survey" and 'The Motor Trading Firms Survey" to analyze the actual
situation in the field.
5.        The studies conducted so far will prove useful in streamlining
working in the respective fields. The MTC is also starting, through local
consultants, a study on "Transport Cost and its Effect on Commodity Prices"
and a "Manpower and Training Needs Study".
6.        The MTC under TRP-l has been able to give exposure to a large
number of officers in planning, project management and other related
aspects, by way of training which has already led to a building of
capabilities of the PID. However, not all work has been up to desired
standard, because staff require more experience and exposure. Nonetheless,
the PID is developing confidence in handling IDA funded projects.
Pronosed TRP-2 Components
Studies
7.        The MTC has not been able to conduct studies in a number of
fields due to fund constraints in TRP-l. These studies are included in
TRP-2, and are listed at the end of this annex.
MTC Training
8.        To enable MTC to come up to desired standards and to enable it
to overcome problems of proper planning and project implementation, it is
necessary to give junior staff further exposure by way of training and
secondment in transport related fields. An allocation of US$0.1 m has been
made for this sub-component. Details are given in Annex 3-8.
Office ]mDrovement
9.        This component includes furnishings for new offices, office
equipment, office supplies and limited operating costs for data collection,
research, reports, etc.



- 11S- 
'Pago 3 of 3-
Techaical Assistanco e
10.       This is mainly to provide project implementation coordination
for )TC components, and for advising MTC on implementation of TRP-2 and
other ongoing MTC projects and both ongoing and future planning, to be
provided through a project impleuletation adviser (12 amI; cost
US$150,000).
- SEGTOR &STUS PROPOSED  MM  TIP-I
Consultants 1nnut
(Man-Months)
1.   Public Passenger Transport Study:              4 PC -  9 LC  -  8 PID
(Role of private/public sector,
removal of constraints to private
sector, improvement of efficiency
of public sector, introduction of
concept of Public Service Obligation
(PSO) for public and private sector
firms, and ways for improving Govt.
policies in public transport).
2.   Transport Policy and Strategy Study            3 PC -  6 LC  -  6 PID
3.   Rectification of anomalies in Motor            4 YC -  4 LC  -  4 PID
Vehicle Act and other related
legislation, and assistance in
updating.
4.   Review of Road Taxation and User               2 FC -  4 LC  - 10 PID
Charge Levels, structure and
adjustments needed.
5.   Accra Route Rationalization Study              2 FC -  4 LC  -  4 PID
for Public Transport.
6.   Economic Feasibility Studies on                3 FC - 10 LC  - 12 PID
Selected Transport Projects
18 PC - 37 LC - 44 PID
FC - Foreign Consultant
LC - Local Consultant
PID - MTC (Planning & Implementation Division)
AP41N
October 1990



- 116 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Training Program for HTC
BackLround
1.        The transport sector in general is faced with the same werkforce
and productivity problems as described in Annex 3-4 for the roads and
highways sub-sector. In the public segment of the sector, these problems
include shortages of skilled managers and technicians, lack of incentives
and motivation, and inadequate means to carry out work assignments. In the
private segment of the sector, despite a high degree of motivation and
initiative related to the dynamics of the marketplace, productivity and the
quality of work output remain well below accepted standards due to the lack
of managerial and technical skills and severe shortages of spare parts,
tools, and equipment as briefly described below.
2.        In general, vehicle repairs are conducted in small garages
located in the regional capitals and local commercial centers. Garage
owners are organized under the Ghana National Association of Garages (GNAG)
which performs a variety of supportive functions for its members. The
conditions within these garages frequently range from poor to completely
untenable vis-a-vis quality, and quantity of tools and equipment available
to perform even the most basic repair operations. While workers somehow
manage to complete vehicle repairs under extremely difficult conditions,
the poor quality of work performed and the high rate of vehicles being
brought back for follow-up repairs create a high cost to vehicle owners,
garage owners, and the sector as a whole. Older mechanics, who are often
poorly trained and underqualified, pass on limited skills to their
apprentices in an uncoordinated manner resulting in a continuation of poor
mechanical practices from generation to generation.
3.        The condition of the motor vehicle fleet is also affected by
poor driving practices which lead to frequent breakdowns, accidents and
lost time en route. Driving skills are passed on in much the same manner
as experienced in the garages with the resulting continuation of bad
practices carried over from one generation to the next. In addition to the
technical skill deficiencies among garage owners and transport operators,
is the lack of managerial know-how needed for efficient small business
operation.
Previous Support for Workforce Develonment
4.        Under the First Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP-l)
extensive support was provided for workforce development in an attempt to
alleviate the above problems. Significant efforts were initiated for the
training of MTC staff dealing with sector issues, and for the training of
private sector mechanics and vehicle operators as described below:



117 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 9
(a)  MTC. Approximately 20 senior and mid-level staff participated
in various overseas technical and managerial seminars,
conferences and/or short courses related to the transport
sector. In-addition, a local training advisor was employed for
24 m/m to assist with the coordination of training for MTC staff
and the training of private sector mechanics and drivers.
(b)  Mechanics Training.  Two local training institutions, the Accra
Technical Training Center (ATTC) and the Kumasi Technical
Institute (KTI), were provided with equipment and the training
aids for six week mechanical courses for "master' mechanics and
apprentices. Original targets called for the participation of
approximately 1500 trainees, but present estimates indicate that
roughly 1650 will actually receive training due to high demand.
Results so far show a measurable improvement in the quality of
work output when the trainees return to their garages.
(c) Driver Training. The National Vocational Training Institute
(NVTI) was provided with equipment, vehicles, and training aids
for two week courses offered in vehicle operation and driver
safety. Original targets called for the participation of
approximately 900 drivers, but it is expected that these numbers
will also be exceeded and that roughly 2300 drivers will receive
training by the end of the project. Results of this program
have not been as easy to measure as the mechanics program, but
it is assumed that a better understanding of road safety,
vehicle handling, load limitations, etc., will result in more
efficient operation of the road transport fleet, benefitting the
economy.
(d) Management Training. The Management Development and
Productivity Institute (MDPI) was provided with training aids
and logistical support to conduct management seminars for
approximately 1000 private and public transport sector managers
and small business operators. Although these targets will be
achieved during the project, there is as yet insufficient
feedback on the positive effects this training has had on
management in the sector.
Transaort Sector Workforce Develonment under TRP-2
5.        Based upon experience gained in TRP-1 and the demand by the
Ghana Road Transport Council (GROTRAC) for the continuation of the skills
upgrading program, the Government has proposed to continue the various
courses at ATTC, KTI, NVTI and MDPI under TRP-2.  It is also proposed to
expand program offerings to the cities of 1io, Takoradi, and Tamale to
provide training for those workers unable to benefit from the courses in
Accra and Kumasi. As shown in Attachment 1, a total of 5100 managers
(900), mechanics (2200), and drivers (2000) will receive training during



- 118 - 
ANNEX 3-8
Page 3 of 9
the life of the project. Support for these activities will be provided as
follows:
(a)  Losistical SUPport. Seven vehicles are requested to provide for
the transportation of trainees both to school and field
locations during course implementation. Total vehicle costs are
estimated at US$136,000.
(b) Mechanics and Drivers Training. US$350,000 will be provided for
training equipment of which US$285.000 will be for new training
programs at Ho, Takoradi and Tamale. As the programs will be
identical to those at ATTC and KTI, the equipment requirements
will parallel those installed at these two institutions. Proper
technical training requires substantial amounts of consumable
materials, and experience under TRP-1 has shown that
approximately US$70 per trainee is necessary to achieve the
objectives of the mechanics training program. To accommodate
2200 trainees under TRP-2, US$154,000 (of which 15 percent will
be provided in local currency by MTC) will be required for
consumable training materials. In order to strengthen the
Government's ability to continue these activities after project
completion, it will be necessary to increase MTC budgetary
allocations for consumable materials to at least 50 percent of
the US$70 per trainee requirement by the end of the project
period. The total amount of this component is US$504,000.
(c) Support Services. Institutions providing the venue and related
operational overhead for the implementation of the training
programs will incur costs not included in their normal operating
budgets. Under TRP-1, a schedule of institutional fees and
program operating expenses was established to compensate the
participating institutions for related expenses. Based upon
experience with TRP-1, a flat fee (01500) for administrative
costs will be paid to each institution according to the number
of trainees they will accommodate (totalling US$24,000). Direct
operating expenses have been calculated at ¢40.0 m (US$113,000)
bringing the total cost of support services to US$137,000.
(d) Staffing Costs. Initiated under TRP-1, fees have been paid to
instructors and supporting staff involved in project training
activities to compensate them for work beyond their normal
assignments. A fee structure has been developed based upon
actual classlworkshop hours conducted for each group which is
then divided proportionately among those faculty and support
staff directly associated with the program. At an average cost
of US$24 per trainee, the amount required for this incentive
program has been estimated at US$124,000 (043.4 m) for the 5100
trainees to be enrolled in the various programs.
(e) Meal Allowance. As a continuation of procedures established
under the TRP-1 training program, meal allowances will be



-119-
ANNEX 3-8
Page 4 of 9
provided to trainees at the rate of ¢350 (US$1) per trainee per
day. With an estimated 134,000 trainee-days scheduled to be
conducted during the project, approximately ¢47.0 m (US$134,000)
will be required for this component.
(f) Workulace Imirovements. During the implementation of training
under TRP-1, it was recognized that trainees were not always
able to use the skills they had acquired in the program due to
the lack of proper tools and equipment in their own workshops.
In an effort to alleviate this situation, those who successfully
completed their training were presented with a small complement
of tools to assist them in their work. Although this program of
tool awards encountered some difficulties during its first year
of operation, most of these problems have been resolved and
feedback from the participants indicates that these tool kits
are being used with good results. For this reason, an
allocation of US$165,000 will be provided under TRP-2 for tools
that are not normally available in the local market (at a cost
of US$75 per trainee).
(g) Program Coordination. Under TRP-1 a local consultant was hired
as a Training Advisor to assist the training personnel of MTC in
the coordination of the previously mentioned training
activities. Both MTC training staff and the advisor have
performed well as evidenced by the overall success of the
mechanics and drivers training programs. However, a problem has
arisen regarding the extended overseas training presently taken
by the Principal Training Officer who has elected to remain in
the United States at his own discretion for a Masters Degree
Program. To assist his successor, it is proposed to continue
the position of Training Advisor under TRP-2 on a part-time
basis. Total Training Advisor inputs for the three year period
are estimated at 12 mlm at a cost of US$20,000. The terms of
reference for the Training Advisor position will be continued
from TRP-1.
As shown in the following table, the total cost for a four-year transport
sector training program is US$1,220,000.
MTC Staff Develoument
6.        As a continuation of training activities carried out under TRP-
1, an allocation of US$100,000 will be included in TRP-2 for the
participation of MTC senior and mid-level staff to attend various
international short courses, conferences, study tours and work attachments
designed to increase their exposure to the latest techniques in transport
sector operations and management. Participation in these various
activities will be based upon a semi-annual plan prepared by the MTC
Training Sector.



-   '    '  -  120 -     '''''- 
ANN- X 3-8
Page 3 of 9
1M1_ OF IRtIPO   -0 aI
Training Coat
Lgtgp   Vater. Ext Tr9. lot Tir. Teak Ast.  FeeAllow.         tal
I.  MTC STAFF TRAININ
a. CoftfInrRCe
Short Cou                              90,000    10,000                          100,000
II. PRIVATE SECTO TRAININ
a. Loglitticl Support    136,000                                                    186,000
b. M.chasice/Driv*rn
Training Progras     3E0,000  154,000                                            504,000
C. Support Service              113,000                                   24,000   187,000
d. Staftfng Costa                                                        124,000   124,000
e. IMel AllInowne                                                       184,000   184,000
. Workplace Imprvemnt 165,000                                                       165,000
g. Progrm Coordination                                        20,000                 20,000
661,000  267,000   90,000    10,000    20,000    2M2,000  1,320,000



-~~~~~~~ 121- 
AW=E 3-8
Pae 6 of 9
Attachunt 1
DlptttOSt Or 0 UI13m    20 
TNSTI TUTIONICIARXIS PIAS Tum=
MDPI         W      SACCRA                 100
ACCOUNTANTS
ETC.
HDPI         MASTER MICH.   ACCRA          300
NDPI         MASTER MMCH.   ICKASI         300.
MDPI         PRIVATE BUS    ACCRA          100
COS.
MDPI         PRIVATE BUS    KUJASI         100
COS.
SUB TOTAL                     900
MECHACS
ATTC        MASTER MC.    ACCRA            400
ATTC        ASST. HECH.    ACCRA           400
ITI         MASTER MRH.   KUWASI           400
KTI         ASST. MICH.     KUwi           400
TTI         NSTER &
ASST. MUHE.    TAKORADI       200
T1MA   PLY. WASTER &
ASST. MUCH.    TAMAE          200
Ho POLY.    MASTER &
ASST. MECH.    HO             200
SUB TOTAL                   2,200
DRIVERS            NVSI         DRIVERS         ACCRA       1,000
NVTI        DRIVERS       - m AI         1,000
SUB TOTAL                   2,000
TOTAL OF ALL INSTITUTES                  5,100



- 122 -
ANEX 3-8
Page 7 of 9
Attachment 2
CoST ESTIMATES FOR FOM-^EAR TRAOWV)    AMF
IDA Funding          GOC Funding In
In USS          Equlvatent US
r.     Kumasi Tochnical Institute (KTI)
(a)  1  edlum *Isi  bus                             -        26,000                  1l
(b)  Equipment: typewriter, photocoplir,
P.C., audio viwual aide and tools              -        20,0eW                  la
(c)  Consumables at U0 per traine                    -       47,6W                 8,4W
(d)  Instructor* tn and supporting staff
at 86.90 per tratneo day and meal* at
81 per day:
(1) 400 master mechanics 6 wooks
coure (30 working days)                 -       22,80
(1;) 400 apprentice mechanics 12
woeks course (60 working dayo)          -       45,606
(e)  Matntenance fte to Institution                  -        5,0W
(t)  Fuel, stationary and operating expensw         -        15,600
TOTAL                                          181,-la                86600
I.    Accra Technical Training Center (ATTC)
(a)  1 mini bus                                      -       12,00                   la
(b)  Equipment: typewriter, photocopier,
P.C., audio visual aids and tools              -        20,000                  1W
(c)  Consumables at 170 per trainee                  -       47,800                8,400
(d)  Instructor ftees and supporting staff
at 80.90 per traines day and meals at
31 per day:
(i) 400 master mechanics 6 weeke
course (80 working days)                -       22,800
(il) 466 apprentice mechanics 12
weeks course (60 working days)          -       45,600
(e)  Maintenance fte to lnstitute                    -        5,000
(f)  Fuel, stationary and operating expense          -       10,000
TOTAL                                        -IUU W O
III.   Takoradi Technical Institute CTTI)
(a)  1 mini bus                                      -       12,066                  150
(b)  Sectioned enginos and accessories               -       45,006                  200
(c)  Other equipment and tools                      -        5O,000                  S00
(dI  Consumables at 876 per trainee                 -        11,900                2,100
(01  Instructors tee  and supporting staff
at 80.90 per trainee day and meals for
trainee at S1 per day:
(1) 100 master mechanics for 6 weeks
course (30 working days)                -        6,700
(11)  160 apprentice mechanics tor 12
weks course (80 working days)           -       11,400
(f)  Maintenance tee to institute                    -        8,000
(9) Fuel, stationary and operating expenses
including training of lnstructor  at KTI       -       10,000
TOTAL                                          149,000               127 



- 123
ANNEX 3-8
Page 8 of 9
IV.    Taale Polytechnic
(a)  1 mini bus                                                                      - 200100
(b)  Sectioned engines and accesortes              -       4,600                   2eo
(a)  Other equipment and tools                     -       56,0                    a 00
(d)  Consumable- at t7t  per tr*inee               -       ll90                  2,100
( )  Instructor  fees and supporting staff
at W.90 per trtinee day and easls for
traimnes at 1 per day:
(;) 100 master mechanics for 6 woeks
course (80 working days)               -        6,70W
(ii)  100 apprentice mechanics for 12
weekn course (60 working days)         -       11,400
(f)  Maintenance fee to Institute                  -        8,000
(g) Fu-l, stationary and operating *xpenses
and Including training instructors at KTI    -        10,000
TOTAL                                        149,600              -11
V.     Ho Polytechnic
(a)  1 mini bus                                    -       12,000                  10O
(b)  Sectioned engines and accessories             -       45,000                  200
O Other equipment and tools                       -        60,000                 g00
Consumable* at 870 per traineo                -       11,900                2,100
(e)  Instructors fes and supporting staff
at 80.90 per trainee day and mals for
traintes at 81 per day:
(1) 100 master mechanics for 6 weeks
cours- (80 working days)               -        6,700
(ii) 100 apprentice mechanics for 12
weeks course (60 working days)         -       11,400
(f)  Maintenance foe to institute                  -        8,000
(g) Fuel, stationary and operating expenses
including training Instructors at KTI         -       1O,000
TOTAL                                        14N,O00               2,700
VI.    Tools as Incentive to successful trainee
at 875 per trainee                                 -       185,000
VIZ.   National Vocational Trainin;  rnstitute
(a)  1 Bus                                         -       46,900                  100
(b)  PC and othor training *quipment               -       165,00                  100
(c)  Instructors fees at 856 for one group
of 12 traines (167 groups)                    -        9,362
(d) Trainee fee to Institute for guest
lecturers, travel and other related
expenses ot 818 per trainee                   -       26,0S2
(    Meals for trainee  at 81 per day              -       20,040
(f)  Stationery and other sundry expense           -       20,000
TOTAL                                         136,444                 200



-124 -
A- R=2 3 - 8
Page 9 of 9
VII£.  Man gr nt D v loon nt *nd productivity
Institt  ( rIL
(a)  One 4WD vehicle                              -        18,4"                  IS
(b)  Audlo visual aide  nd othr e*quipment,       -        i,e,                   if
(c)  Offle/cl.esroom lmprovemnts                 -         6,oe                  100
Fuel, stationery, ond contingency            -        12,10m
Instructor tfe   and supporting staff *t
81.76 per trainee day and mealt for
trainee  at S1 per dby:                      -        U ,0
(1)    e moster mchanics for 4 weeks
course (2# working days)              -        S,SOs
(Ii) 1I6 transport oporetort for 2
weeks corse (0 workiag days)          -        2,750
(iii)  10 ma'nger8  weeks course
(1S working days)                     -        4,125
TOTAL
IX.    Training Advisor 12mm part time                    -       20,686
cRAND TOTAL FOR TRAINING SUB COMPONENT             -    1,196,819              25,800
Say       USS1.20 U
AF4IN
October 1990



- 125 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page I of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Safety Prosram
Backtround
1.          Continued financial constraints over a long period has
inhibited improvements and attention to road safety in Ghana. The poor
conditions of the road network, inadequacy in police enforcement, accident-
prone locations (so called black spots') remaining untreated, inadequacy
of vehicle testing facilities and insufficient education of road users in
road safety have led to a situation in which Ghana has one of the highest
road accident fatality rates in terms of death per thousand vehicle
population in the world. Limited availability of reliable statistics in
the road safety sector and absence of fundamental data concerning road
safety have contributed to a lack of analysis and appreciation of the
problem. Inadequacy of funds has compounded this problem.
2.          It was against this background that the HTC with IDA financing
commissioned a consultant to prepare a Road Safety Action Plan for
inclusion in TRP-1. Under the project, US$1.19 m was allocated for the
road safety sub-component which covered the following areas:
(a)   Establishing a full time National Road Safety Committee (NRSC);
(b)   Setting up an accident data collection/storage and analysis
system;
(c)   Elimination of accident black spots and hazardous locations by
GHA and DUR;
(d)   Improvement in policing enforcement for accidents;
(e) Improvement of vehicle testing and examination facilities; and
(f)   Provision of consultancy services in road safety.
Improvements to road safety which have been carried out under TRP-1 are
detailed in Annex 2-6, paras 27-30.
Proposed Action Plan for Road SafetY under TRP-2
3.          It is essential for IDA to continue to assist Ghana in the road
safety field in order to consolidate achievements and results in the road
safety program of TRP-1. Since only the Accra station was covered fully
for vehicle examination and inspection under TRP-1, funds are required to
finance other important vehicle examination stations. The proposed action
plan is detailed below, and details of funds required are given in the
attached estimate of expenditure.
Support to National Road Safety Comuittee
4.          NRSC will require support by way of minor equipment and
materials for its proper functioning. The main funding for the operation
of NRSC will have to come from Government and some support from IDA funds
is required.



- 126 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 2 of S
Accideut Coileetion. Storane and Analysis System
5.          The Building and Road Research Institute (BRRI), which has a
very vital role in the road safety program, will require continued support
by way of equipment and operating budget to continue its activities in
accident data collection, storage and analysis.
GOA and DUR
6.          Continued training and availability of paints and reflective
materials to cover at least major black spots would be required to support
the ongoing program.
Police Patrolling and Enforcement
7.          Additional equipment to consolidate the improvements in MTUJ is
essential. Training of Motor Traffic Unit (MTU) personnel will have to be
continued.
Vehicle Examination and InsDect
8.          As a long term policy, GOG wishes to equip all eighteen vehicle
examination and licencing stations with modern equipment. Having already
covered Accra fully, the next most important station where proper
facilities are to be established is Tema. If this station is not provided
with proper facilities for vehicle examination, there is bound to be
diversion of vehicles in bad condition from Accra to Tema, since Accra and
Tema are in fact twin cities. The next station in order of importance in
vehicle inspection is Kumasi which is the second biggest city in Ghana.
Takoradi, which is the third largest city has already been provided with a
building under TRP-1 but will require provision of equipment under TRP-2
for proper examination of vehicles. Koforidua, in the east, is the fourth
most important station and will also require provision for proper building
and testing facilities. However, due to funding constraints only buildings
with examination pits have been allowed for.
Training
9.          Apart from conducting training courses at the University of
Science and Technology, Kumasi (UST). it is proposed to provide seven
officers (one each from GHA, DUR, BRRI, NRSC, VELD, MTU and MTC) with road
safety courses and attachments abroad to enable them to study modern
methods and trends in road safety.
Technical Assistance
10.         A consultancy input of 3 man-months will be made available to
MTC to give guidance to institutions involved in road safety.
Cost
11.         The cost of the above items is included in the project as shown
on the following table.



- 127.-.        .     
ANNEX 3-9
Page 3 of 5
ROAD SAFETY COMl!WW WIDER TRP-2
ESTIMATE OF EjPENDITUR
Bas. Cost         am0
IDA Funding    Contribution
In US     In tISS Equivalent
S 1    Vehlel- Examination and Liceocino Division (VELO)
Constructioc of'Buitedng mnd Pita for
Vehiel- Examination Centers:
a)  Construction of factIlties at Kumai         59,500
b)  Construction of faeilities at Tme           69,600
Cc)  Construction of fae I itlee at Koforidua    69,S00
Local Coat. and Inputs Reauired
Presume Bank pays 9a of building
coata and MOTC, IOX                                              19 S0o
Sub Total     178,600          199 60
1.2. Vehicle and Eauiement for VELD
(a) On. 4WD for VELD Cro- Country
supervision
(b) Equipment for Kumasi                         18,600
2 Roller Brake Tester + Spares (one heavy
and one lIght)                            3W,66O
I Nead Light Tester . Spares                  2,609
2  Inspection Pit Jacks at 6,6o6             12,066
1 Wheel Alignmnt + Device . Spare ,           4,900
1  Minibus                                   12,006
Installotion Cost for Equipmnt (say usJ3,000)          B      *Oa
Sub Total            66,06            3,966
(c)  Equipment for Takoradi
I Roller Brake Tester * Spares (Light duty)  16,066
1 Head Light Testor * Spars                  2,009
1 Inspection Pit Jacks at 6,oo               6,09
1 Wheel Alignmnt o Device * Spar"n           4,6oe
1 Minibus                                   12,600
Installation Cost for Equipment (say U5S2,000)     -              2.0
Sub Total            84,6O6            2,6w
(d) Equipment for Tons
I Roll-r Brake Tester * Spares (light duty)   10,00
I Hoad Light Teeter * Spares                  2,600
1 Inspection Pit Jacks at 8,666               6,666
1 Wheel Alignment * Device - Spares           4,000
1 Minibus                                    12,000
Installation Coat for Equipmnt (say USS2.009     _    2-
Sub Total              34,666           2,066
Total Provision for Vehicles and Equlpment       148,06            7,00



ANEX 3-9
Page 4 of 5
I.    ROAD SAFETY IIPROVEMENT& BY WGA  HIGHWAY AUTHORIfY (ClA)
AND DEPARTMENT OF URBAN ROADS (DUO)
Road Marking Pointe and Trefic Sign Materials        19,m0
Local Cost for Short Troining In Chen* et UST
Sub Total             tlO,1
III.   NATIONAL ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL (NRSC)
Typewriter                                             2,999
Pbotocoptsr                                            S,00
Publicity and Miscellaneous ttoem                      5,ooe
Local Costs - NRSC Annual Subvontion for
Secretariat and Opereting Cost                                        59999
Sub Total UI
IV. ACCIDENT DATA SYSTEM
Building and Road Resarch Institute (BRRI):
Equipment:  Portable Axle weighing s/c                10,090
radar gun, traffic recorders, hand talkers
stop watches *tc.
Operating Expensen;
Fuel, Stationery etc.                                 15,900
1 Cross Country Vehicle                               18,009
Local Inputs required - 2 Engineers and                               15,999
part operating cost.
Sub total            43I71DSO0
V.     MOTOR TRAFFIC UNIT (HTU)
EquIpment;
8 Radar Cuns                                          20,00
16 sets Alcometers with acceseortse                   16,999
Misce llanous Equipmont                               19,000
Sub Total            4i6U1
VI.    TRAININC
Training abroad of 7 personnol In Road Safety
Techniques - 1 from GHA, 1 from DUR, 1 from
BRRI, 1 from Police, 1 from NRSC 1 from
MOTC, and 1 from VELD at 1'10,999 per person          70,000
VII.   SHORT-TERM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Assistance of short term consultants to givo
expert advice ond guidance to Road Safoty
organization - 8 man--months at 813,900 per
man-months plus 2 international return fares          44,000
GRAND TOTAL           649,600          99,200
Total cost of Road Safety Component comes to     US1748, 700



- 129 
ANX  3-9
Page 5 of 5
LOCAL DuM  FROM MM GOVRNN
1. AnI   Subvontion to  MISC for Road Safet activity
and Salary for Staff;
2. 2 Engineer* and 4 Techniclans to be appointed
by -RR! for aecident data an0lyals;
ealarl.s/reaunerationa to be borne by QOG;
S.  SW of Construction cost and local cost for
installation for building of Vehicle Exulnation and
Licensing faciltties at four etations to be borne 9e by
IVA and lOX CO;
4. Cost af local sbhrt train1ng courses for Road Safetp
personnel at UST.
AF4IN
October 19W



130 -
Annex 3-10
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF GRUMA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Northern Region Pilot Scheme
General
1.        The objective of the Scheme and its general outline are as
presented In the SAR, paras 3.01(e), 3.03(e) and 3.17 to 3.22.  This annex
summarizes additional information.
2.        The Project Files contain additional documentation and details:
(a) Report on NGO Involvement in the Pilot Program by Dr. Parameswara Rao
(5/90); (b) Northern Region Pilot Project to Improve Rural Mobility by
Dr. K. Adarkwa; (c) NRPS: Economic Analysis of Selected Roads by DFR
Planning Unit (5190); (d) Report on Feasibility Study of Hand-dug Wells in
Tamale and its environs by Dr. A.T. Amuzu, Consultant (5/90); (e) NR*PS
Road Selection, Engineering Aspects and Cost Estimates by Mr. S. Matusiak,
ILO expert, DFR (5/90).
Location and Main Features of Proiect Area
3.        The Pilot Project covers about 50 villages near Tamale in the
north of Ghana. Theigeneral location is shown in SAR Map No. IBRD 22089.
The Project Files include a map showing the individual villages and their
names.
4.        A rough estimate of the population of the 50 'primary' villages
directly connected by the proposed rural roads is about 55,000, at least an
equal number will benefit from 'secondary' villages within 4-5 km of the
primary villages. Total beneficiaries may number 100,000. More than half
of the population are women.
5.        The main economic activity is farming.  Due to transport and
marketing problems, main farming activities are for subsistence. Income
levels are very low and poverty is widespread. Major problems include:
lack of access to markets, lack of good drinking water, (water in streams
and dugouts are contaminated with guinea-worms), about 90 percent
illiteracy, and poor health facilities. Malnutrition is strikingly
visible. Women and children collect water and gather firewood by walking
about 2-6 km. More than 50 percent of all transport activity in the
villages is done by head porterage, mainly by women and children. Bicycles
are popular, but not many own them because the villagers lack the money to
invest. The newly introduced bicycle-trailers, and single-wheel farm
vehicles (SFV) are readily accepted as a substitute for head-porterage.
Surveys show women would like to own them but cannot raise the funds to buy
them. The NGOs recently bought about 20 bicycles for distribution to
women's groups in some villages, and women have avidly taken to using the



-131-
Annex 3-10
Page 2 of 10
bicycles and demonstration trailers for the first time, and there has been
no cultural resistance to the change.
Proiect Costs
6.        The tentative cost estimates for various components under the
pilot scheme are given in Attachment 1.
The Rural Road Counonent
7.        The pilot region. is generally flat and suitable for good earth
or gravel roads and for use of bicycles and trailers. Single-blade roads,
vith 3m wide gravellearth surface, built by labor-intensive contracting
will be the main component of the scheme. Motor vehicles including small
trucks can use the roads, but the main use is expected to be by non-
motorized vehicles. Labor intensive methods have been proved to be about
10-15 percent cheaper in Ghana compared to equipment-intensive methods.
They employ about 125 persons per contractor producing about 2 km of roads
per month or about 25 km per year. The 150 km of roads under the project
will be done by 2 contractors over 3 years, employing about 250 people per
day for this period. The total road contract costs will be roughly
US$1.5 m equivalent. of which about US$0.4 m will be spent on wages of
unskilled labor, at a rate of about US$1.5 per person/day, which is
slightly above the minimum wage level.
8.        It is expected that workers from each group of villages will
work on the roads nearer to them, thus distributing the employment over the
region. Assuming that one group will work for 3 months, there will be a
total of 12 groups of 250 workers each. The total employment will thus
benefit about 3,000 individual workers, each working for about 3 months.
The target of 70 percent women workers would mean that about 2,100 women
will benefit from the employment and earnings, each earning about US$145
per head. Labor surveys in the villages show that women labor willing to
work on roads far exceed this number. The wage earnings will often accrue
to women of the same household. The project will encourage saving part of
the income, which will be further facilitated by the supply of food by the
World Food Program (WFP) to cover extra food needs due to the physical work
involved.
Hand-Dug Wells
9.        The communities currently dig wells but do not have the
resources to build stone-linings to protect them. A well about 15-20m deep
may cost about US$1,500, of which 40 percent will be unskilled labor costs
contributed by the community. The lining work will be done as contract by
the two NGOs, who will be trained by a UN Volunteer; the NGOs will be paid
on a unit cubic meter cost for the works; the unit rates will be
established by DFR in consultation with the Bank, and quantities will be
certified by DFR. The NGOs will be provided with a minimum set of moulds
and other accessories, so that the trained NGO units will be equipped to do
this work for additional villages at their own costs. The project provides
funding for about 50 hand-dug wells.



-.132-    -
Annex 3-10
Page 3 of 10
Supoort to Non-Motor Tranmso?t
10.       The women who received trial IMT vehicles (cycle trailers and
small farm vehicles) under TRP-l, have shown enthusiastic response and are
willing to invest their own savings to buy them. Recently the two NGOS who
bought bicycles and trailers from their earnings from data collection work
for project preparation, have given them out on an instalment basis to
village women. Under the pilot project, the workers are expected to
contribute voluntarily to the NGO's community fund from their wage earnings
(about 5 percent, iiz addition to the personal savings schemes where they
will contribute about 20 percent); the NGOs will buy these 1ET vehicles
from the community funds and provide it to the villagers on instalment
loans. It is estimated that about 250 bicycles and trailers and about 400
small farm vehicles will be needed to provide rural transport on the new
roads (unit costs, about US$100 per cycle trailer, and US$60 for SFV).
Half of these needs are expected to be met by the villagers' own savings
from the road works. The other half will be provided from project funds
through the NGOs (total not exceeding US$50,000), under a suitable
incentive scheme related to infrastructure maintenance. While the
production of trailers and SFV's were done under TRP-l through the
Technology Consultancy Center in Kumasi, local commercial production is now
starting in the Tamale area, and will provide these vehicles.
Eavironmental Components
11.       The villagers will plant and maintain trees about 6m apart on
both sides of the new roads; an innovative method of pot-irrigation will be
introduced (earthen pots with a hole, filled with a wick on side, buried
close to the tree; water within the pot will be sucked by the root system,
needing only weekly watering). The seedlings, pots and tree-guards (made
of mud) will together cost about US$1.5 equivalent per set; NGOs will plant
these on a contract basis and will be paid from the project, on the
understanding that the trees will be maintained by them. There will also
be village woodlots and nurseries initially funded under the project, at
minimal costs. The trees will prevent land erosion and desertification,
they will protect the road surfaces, and will provide fuel wood through
normal harvesting of the woodlots.
Nutrition Comonent
12.       It is expected that WFP will provide food for the road workers.
The nutrition support component-will build on this help. Taking into
account the importance of female nutrition for both productivity and
welfare effects, the pilot scheme will, in addition to ensuring that the
nutrition status of women is not adversely affected by the additional
physical labor required for the road building activities, attempt to
improve nutrition, and consequently increase productivity. Daily meals and
iron supplementation for anemic women, will be provided. A nutrition
education program will complement other activities in an effort to broaden
the range of potential nutrition benefits.



- 133 -
Annex 3-10
Page 4 of 10
13.       The project will supply the food (donations from WFP), iron
tablets, utensils, and storage facilities.  The comunities will be
responsible for food preparation and a system for food and nutrient
distribution. The project also will provide technical assistance in the
assessment of iron status, the design and implementation of the educational
component and overall assistance in the implementation, monitoring,
supervision and evaluation of the nutrition aspects of the northern region
pilot scheme. Attachment 2 gives more details.
StrenIthenint SuDDort to NG0s/omen
14.       This component will involve some limited support to project
accounts and administration, training, twinning arrangements with another
developing country NGO involved in rural women's development, and promotion
of appropriate technology in various aspects of village life. The two
local NGOs (TDWH and Amasachina) who will share the project implementation
almost equally, will sign agreements with Government (DFRIMRH) indicating
their obligations regarding the community programs (road works,
infrastructure maintenance, tree maintenance, collection of data for
monitoring the project, etc.).
Project Management
15.       DFR will appoint an experienced engineer specialized in labor-
intensive road works, to manage the overall pilot project. Two UN
Volunteers (in rural water supply and women development/social engineering)
will support the project manager; their supply will be agreed with UNDP.
The project will fund operating costs of the project unit. Expert
assistance from the Bank or outside will be provided to set up a monitoring
system and impact study for all aspects of the pilot program.
AF4IN
October 1990



-134 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page S-of 10
Attacbment 1
DEPARTENT OF PCENDE ROADS (Don)
Cost Estimates (US$ million eouivalent)
Rural MobilitylSupnort to Women      Local      Taxes   Foreisn      Total
tNorthern Reaion Pilot Scheme)
Single Blade Roads (150 km)      1.04      0.07       0.27      1.37
Design and Supervision           0.10       0.00      0.06      0.16
Monitoring and Evaluation        0.09       0.00      0.06       0.15
Supp. for Hand-dug Wells
by Community Labor             0.05      0.00       0.01      0.06
Support to Non-motor Transport  0.03       0.00       0.03      0.05
Environmental Component          0.14       0.01      0.05       0.20
Nutritional Component            0.05       0.00      0.02      0.07
Strengthening & Support
to NGOs/Women                  0.22      0.00       0.09      0.31
Subtotal Rural Mobility/Support       1.71       0.09      0.58       2.37
to Women
Physical Contingencies                0.15       0.01      0.05       0.21
Price Contingencies                   0.32       0.02      0.06       0.40
TOTAL COST                       2.18      0.11       0.69      2.98
Sources of Funding:  IDAs         2.44
Government: 0.34
Total       2.98
AF41N
Novemer 1990



- .---135-~
Annex 3-10
Page 6 of 10
Attacbment 2
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Northern Region Pilot Schemes Nutrition Asnects
Introduction and Sumarv
1.,       Nutrition is one of the critical factors affecting worker
productivity. Research has shown that both inadequate food intake and iron
deficiency anemia have profound effects on worker output. A World Bank
sponsored study in Kenya of iron deficiency anemia caused by inadequate
intake of iron coupled with parasite infestation, found that by providing
treatment for parasites and an iron supplement, hemoglobin levels could be
raised and worker productivity improved. In Indonesia, a significant
correlation was found in another Bank study between hemoglobin values and
work output measurements (on average 18-19 percent less for anemic compared
to non-anemic individuals). Similarly, effectively treating the iron-
deficiency anemia resulted in a 15-25 percent increase in productivity.
other studies have demonstrated that providing food supplementation to
workers increases their productivity.
2.        The NRPS targets women for participation in the productive
activities. For both social and physiological reasons, women are more
vulnerable than men to inadequate food intake and micronutrient
deficiencies (particularly iron deficiency anemia); socially, because
women's lower status often accords them low priority in intra-household
food allocation and, physiologically, because of their reproductive
function. Furthermore, the effects of poor nutrition in women may be more
profound than reductions in work productivity. Malnutrition in pregnant
and lactating women may translate into low birthweight children and
consequently high infant mortality.
3.        Northern Ghana has the highest rates of infant and child
malnutrition in the country and studies also have shown that women in the
northern regions are often severely underweight. The northern region
experiences the most pre-harvest hunger due to a limited rainy season which
yields only one harvest per year. Taking into account the importance of
female nutrition for both productivity and welfare effects, the pilot
scheme will include actions to ensure that the nutrition status of women is
not comprised by the additional physical labor required for road building
and well digging activities. Furthermore, measures will be undertaken to
improve poor nutrition status and consequently to increase productivity.
Finally, to broaden the range of potential nutrition benefits, activities
will be supported under the project to encourage women to use additional
income generated through the productive activities in nutritionally
beneficial ways.



-136-
Annex 3-10
Page?. of 10
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 5
4.        The pilot scheme vill provide:
*    a daily meal, to be prepared on-site, for all workers involved
in the road building and well digging activities;
*    a daily iron supplement for women who test positive for iron
deficiency anemia; and
*    a nutrition education program aimed at women.
5.        The project will supply the food (donations from WFP), iron
tablets, utensils, and storage facilities. The communities will be
responsible for food preparation and a system for food and nutrient
distribution. The project also will provide technical assistance in the
assessment of iron status, the design and implementation of the education
component and evaluation of the nutrition aspects of the northern region
pilot scheme.
6.        If the pilot scheme proves to be successful, the nutrition
supplementation and education activities could be implemented in similar
community-based development efforts. The educational materials developed
and implemented through the pilot scheme would be immediately available for
duplication. Identification and training of additional personnel to
deliver education would be necessary. If the pilot scheme demonstrates a
significant increase in productivity through the provision of nutrition
supplementation to workers, particularly female workers, these activities
would be encouraged. The replication of the scheme would depend upon the
availability of resources for food and nutrients.
Detailed Description of Activities
A. Nutrition Suiplementatior.
7.        A daily meal, prepared on site, will be provided to workers
involved in the physically demanding road-building and well-digging
activities to meet their increased caloric needs. Women who are
breastfeeding or lactating will receive a larger ration to compensate them
for their additional nutrition requirements. A daily iron supplement will
be provided to workers who test positive for iron deficiency anemia and to
all workers who are pregnant or lactating.
8.        A system for the storage, preparation, and distribution of food
and iron supplements will be established within the communities. The local
NGOS, who have previous experience in community food distribution, will
coordinate this effort.
B. Nutrition Education



- 137 -
Annex 3-10
Page 8 of 10
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 5
9.        The objectives of the nutrition education activities are to:
influence behaviors which will have a positive effect on the nutrition
status of the women involved in the income generating activities and their
children; and to complement and support the provision of food and iron.
The local NGOs. through the use of local and external technical assistance,
will be responsible for the development and implementation of the nutrition
education program.
10.       Qualitative research focused group discussion and a small number
of in-depth household interviews, will be conducted to supplement
information readily available on infant and child feeding practices. The
primary focus of the additional research will be maternal nutrition
practices, for which readily available information is inadequate. The
intended vehicles for the nutrition education are organized community
groups and female community leaders who would be trained under the project
to become community nutrition monitors. Individual, face to face
materials, and audio cassettes for group use, would be developed under the
project. (Mass media techniques are unlikely to be appropriate vehicles.)
Both the qualitative research and the design of specific nutrition
activities will build on and complement previous work and ongoing efforts
in nutrition education in the region.
C. Technical Assistance
11.       An estimated 2 man months of external and 4 man months of local
technical assistance will be necessary to ensure the successful
implementation and evaluation of this innovative approach to improving
nutrition and productivity in the community. The majority of assistance
should be available locally. Another potential source of assistance would
be the identification and recruitment of a United Nations volunteer with
nutrition expertise to work with the project during its first year when all
of the pilot activities will be initiated.
D. Impact Evaluation
12.       An impact evaluation (case control design) will be carried out
to assess the effects oft the food supplementation on worker productivity;
iron supplementation on iron status and productivity; and the nutrition
education on specific behavioral change objectives related to infant and
child feeding practices and eating practices during pregnancy and
lactation.



- 138 -
Anne% 3-10
Page 9 of 10
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 5
Costs ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~u   CS {000)
A. Food and Iron SuDDlementation
utensils and storage facilities,                                   2
iron assessment and supplementation.                               4
B.   Nutrition Education
materials production, training and implementation                 25
C.   Technical Assistance (4 m/m local)
preparation, iron assessment, baseline implementation,             6
qualitative research and analysis,                                 6
materials design and testing,                                      6
education training.                                                6
D.   Evaluation (2 mWm external)
design and final analysis                                         24
TOTAL                                                             76



_ 139 -
Annex 3-10
Page 10 of 10
Attacbment 2
Page 5 of 5
IaDlemntation Schedule
Project Year           Pre-Pro   PY | PY2         PY3
Activities (Quarter)          121341234 234 1234
Detailed ImpleUentation Plan       Xi'
Food Supplementation        |x x 1 1 I IxxT         lxIxxx  xxT
Iron Assessment
Iron Supplementation                   x x x x x  x  x x x   x
Education Qualitative
Research                             x
Education Design
and Testing                            x
Education Materials Pro-
duction and Training                     x
Education Implementation                    x x x  _ x x x x
Evaluation Design                  x
Evaluation Implementation                                 x x
AF4IN
October 199O



Smond Tmpub b abl I itablon Projec
&Am" Projeft Cedes
9t_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P ON  etC
ftuig  ot
Lol   Tan    Forolp         Total             Locl    Tan   Foro           T*tl                  Go Ct
A. C     _q t u.r f                                          dlllon)                                   (Cod) mIlon)
1. bed SI.bl  lblZon Prqrin                 24.9      8.2      GS.6     20.7             8,44      2,M2    28,         840                  U
2.L  r1.      bilt1.i.Po_                    1.4      0.7       6.7       8.7              41          7     2,23       2,974 
L Ihj.v N..t Erg. halp                       0.2      0.1       1.1       1.8               67        so          a      4s 
4.  "tulu nemal Sbwtlnlg                     0.7      0.1       3.2       4.0              232        32      Im        1,8                  is
L. Tnou_i Prom                               0.8      0.1       0.2       0.6               OD        18         8       177 
L CDoPonit u*r M
1. inmtI     l 9pos                          1.1     0.2        2.6        8                          L        637      1,7 6                               g
C. C_ pn nt  dr  aCt
1. Umlmprwonnts                              0.9     0.4       4.1        5.5              2065      153     1,49       1,#57                o
2. *biltoSbodS                               4.5      1.6      49.7      66.8            1,6129      s0    16,66       19,1"                26
. GSd. aN  Teds. ASil                        1.0      0.0       8.2       4.2              3ao         8       ,lC      1,04                 25
0. CG_omons udar m1l
1. Instltutmna Sqiport                       O.8     0.0       0.6        1.0              118        26       216       34s                 23
2 Seomldt TraIning                           0.8      0.1       0.9       1.2               94        34       2i2       415                2x
L  Wd 814t                                   0.3     0.1        0.5       0.6               IS        21 n64             261                 06
E. No# kiw iglion Pi lob Sdwi                   1.7     0.1       0.6        2.4             S91         29       1W7       W7                 15
_ -                                           -c  _               -                            -  
Total P    t        Ce                         87.4    11.7      141.6    190.9            12,716     $,16     46,2v    04,601                1065
Plyacoal Cs  rntln ct                         8.0      1.1      9.9       14.1            1,065               8,J12     40794
Prica Contlngu.els                            7.0     2.2       18.5      22.6            5,844     1,        2 124,6   21,9  29
Total Project Cest                             47.4    16.1    146.2       27.0            19,04      6,0s7    68,465    91,62                               o z
0 I
VI



inRa.ZC OF am
LTOW& OlUld WAM 1129" FilO~~~~~*3d11w
fitwf.1  On6 NO               13.34.16 4L3  AL*   0.74 0*8 .3 4.69  I.N  LUD                   LOB25   1.4 3%9ff4A 2LO  1*17  l   SM   OM. 0*8    8.11  Wo        M0.   0.8  0.16
%"Ih* O  ho                   12* 0.4  4*           4   O. S 0.60. OA *046  0.31  0.13  LU  I*   OA  0.35I LU       OA0.  0.13  6.2  I*   0*9  O    O."* 0 LE    OM3 06  *A 0*6@
Ow"6.10 CLAN ke               23*  L*S  3 .0SJ   0A*  0.3  0.2*  1.9   I"9  0M  8.3  G.    LOD 0.2*  LO3  7.A   2.13OJ 0.3.46 6.9  0.89  0*1  1*0.l5A      0.0 *              '4A0.
*t    IA                        34   7.41 60.   OM.  1.0  0.   4.3  6.UB 0 LO       18.15IW03.7   6.15 2.3  W3.4 V.11  LO0  1* 3LO .0 3.9    L    0.3  S    T* *  *A  .9A  0.19  La
ft3wI.4w 0Ip 0 Co *A          0*  0.5  0*   1*   OM  0.2*0.6  0.3C  0.09 0.2*  0.34 0*0  0*9  0.0  0*O 0.40  0.0  0*0 0.0  0*0  0*0 0.09  LOD 8*    AL41 0609 0.0  0.0
fouviake CoAWre ggif.w0 PM  0M  0.0  0.48  0*Al  O    0.0) OAB 0.09  O.2  0*  L.3  0.14  0*  0*D 0.14 0.3   0*  40*  0.09 .0*   0M  0* 0*  8* &                  0.0C   0*A   OA0
*wwhmc" lah 11145m..t.hm.U wM   LU  0.5  1.13  2.13  0*0* Q    0.3  0.    0*0 0960.48 0.16  0.M  0.5  OM* C 0.0 0 0*0.40 0*   0*0.2 0.11 0.3O  0*A.00*O."  a
owwas Gab             &20.  La2  0*   0*1  0.*A0 0.00.0  0*D      0 0.00.09 0 0.0.04A  0.090.9OA* O   0.06  Ole9 0*0.  0.09 OA *A0.09  0*8 04    LO  CO  0*0.LO
MI"  3                           1*0*  2*   461  0.4I 0.09 0,16  1.3  0.41 0.09 0.74 1*   0.M  0.5 OAS 1.09  0.3  0*90* 0ALO   OJI 0.2*  .1 8ff 8 *    *A 0.0  0.   .0
Woo  mmobhrO    GM 0.38                       AM   0*Ir0.06 0.4.2 0.16C  0.30 0.13  1*0  0.09 &0.0  0DA .    0*0.09  0.C *               0. O   A 0.00    OMS   &W  &    OA  40.
F'-w*ujwIin                   0.3  0.27   A   2.09  0.0  0.5  0.4S 0.3  0.13 0.09 0.32 1.09  0*S 0.O  0*A 0.3  0.09 0.0  0S. 0M   0.0  0.0  0*   8*    OA*  CO4  0.0  0*
S*hI2                           0.2*M0.44* 5l.14  0.14OM90M  1.21 .0 30*1  1.02*   0.130.090.3 0.6   LID3O.0CS30.3   0.00.0 *m0*0    0  *0.004O
2*.0.i & "Ng - I L*m.2*r;m    0.39 05  1*   I.*  0AF 0.45 0*  0A   CS  OAS 0.2* 0.17  0*  C 0.09 0*              0.19  0.09 0.00 0.09    O 0.0 0   0.0 0*  0.    8    0.0  0.0 0609
#Ab".1 JD                            0.3  1.3  .2*  0.0  0.5  0.4  0*   0.30 0*  0.2*  0.17  0*  0.09 0.  0.3  0.0  0A*  0.0  0*M  0.0  0*  0.09 8*              OM  0.m@ 0.,0
5*A0101 5w *4 iII i   7m "M"        0.33 SA  jm         a*  0.3  6.44 0.4  0.  21.09S s.  ff.1* TM2.3 3.16 mm   $.  2* 27.0 a 5*     c* 0.U  &*S1   8* .8A  0.S  1
wA44l.5*"1l2*bIm0 0*0*  LO3  7.20  0A*90.0  0*00.0   0.13 0.3  i LB                           0 *A OM lm& 0.0  23   .   0*0*    LU    *     04,0OM*OM  SA    ON  0.09  040*
ft9wipwak mh  5*wIa, %wo - DU   C.S  0.0  OAR  1*   GA*0*M0.14  0.5   0.60*0.3O  0.4   0*0.09  0.3  0*   0*  0*R0.30*M   OA  0*00 A                         O* A 0*A0  0*  0.
0.5*39 SW Spmpw- coo am         0*.09L  0.6  0*B  0.0  0.0  0*0.09O  0.6  0.2* 0.13 0.23  0.5  0.2*0*0.    0*0M*f  000.2014  0.09"                     l 0*0     41A 0*    , 0*00.09
O.74*.Ie 5*3iew   - Du 1Wm      OA.  0.40  0.20  0.11, 0*9  0*  0*1 0.09  0.09 0.09 0.413. 0.0   0*  0.  0.6  0.0   0*  0*  0.09  *   OM  0.0  00  0*    0*   0.00.0  LO
&&N   o.I4. Poopm                 L   0.68* 0 0 .16  0*0.2*  0.36 0*D  0*0.27  LO2  2.35  0* 0.3  31 LO3  GM  0.3  L0 1.1A   OA  OM 0.60    OM    80** 0.00.   0A
S.A.u / Wm    W. 09             0."0O  0.2* 0*   0.44  0.  0.2* 0.28 0.3  0.09 0*2 0.2  0*   0.2  0.40 0.2  0. 60.0  0*9  0.0m   A   0.0  0.13 0*0 am   '*a  0*  0L 0.0
O.T4.wl / Asia.3. OR W          0.2* 0.0  0*   0*   0.2* 0.2*0.9 OM .1l  0.0  0*  0.3  0.15  0*  0.0  0*S 0.2*  0.09 0.0  0.09 0    0.0 0.3  0.0  OA    as  0.0  0.
A0.Tq" / Aia* kw (4 OM          0*A  0.6  0A*  0AR  0*1  0.0  013  0.3   00  OAS 0*0  0*0   02 0.2* 0.09 0M   0.0  0.09 0*. 0*0  Om  OM  OA   *A    OM  0.0 0.0  0*
ek" I    AV 5**1. NowJm OA.Pmr.*   0.2T 0.11 SAY  1*   0.06 0.2* 0.4  0J*   0.  0*  0M  0.   0.AR AM2  0.35 0.V   0.40  0.0  0.0  0*A   O*  G    0.0  *0           OA  060  0.0 00



1mm.            i~~~~~~1 a.w usa   WR 2$ .344  193        IN 5  om.  us          WM   .m. 41611 UNn olIIN .A.n  ur                  $ 0 4116    SW
444,Tdomal mI   ow  *r II 
8b    w  a*% gid04   I ~ IF co   0.0   0.40  0*0  0*    0.0  0.40  0.04 0.01  0.01  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.01  0.00 0.0  0.10   04%  0.0  0.A  C*   0.0  Ole  Oil 0*                0*A0.00 00
Room .I 0e4m     0 FM ~          0.0  06.0  OM   0.0   0.0  0.D 0.0  0.04   0601  0.0D 0.0  0.07  0.01  0.O  0.0  0.    04R O0  0.5 90   0.0  0.0  049 00    0    OA0  am0  0.40
&*6100 41A                         0.01  0.0  O0.3    J 040.1  0.0  0M40.011  0.CR  0.00  0.14  0.18  0.00.0O  0.38  0.17   0.01  0.0  0.11  9*SOA 0         Om 0.  m 0.0.     0    0.0  00  0.0
ftmm4 3I1mu  U WM                0.AS  0.00  0.45  0.4   0.01  0.00  0.0  0.0   0.01  0.00  0.3201 0.01OA   .0.0  0.28  0.314   0.01  0.00  0.30  0.11  0 0.0   04OJ   OM.0     0*A0  0.0  0.0
Nglow ftriW)a2a Mrg %".Cm ON   0.0  0.0  0*   0.3   0.0  0.00 0.04  0.0   0.01  0.00  0.0B  0.06  0.01  0.00 0.0  0.20   04  0.0  0.0  0*   0.0  0.0  040.6    O 0.6                   A0.   0.0
$0     P1mw On qf                0.0  0.0  0.14  0.24  0.00 0.0  0.00  001   0.0  0.0  0.04  0.04  0.00  0.40  0.04  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  O.04   0.40  0.10  040  &4    0*   0.0  040 0.0
SwWvbf 40                 ~0.10  0.0  0m   0.40   Oil  0.0  0.18  0.14   0.08  0.40  0.24  04   0.0  0.0  0m  0*   0.00  0.0  010  0*   0.0  0.D  0.0*  0A    0*   0.0  04   0.0
V.I Apem. Wolfe (a04,.I)    0.0  0.0  0A14  0.41   .0  OM0  0.00 0.09  0.0  0.00  0.11  0.32  0.0  0.00  0.32 0.38  001  0.0  0.00 910  O 0.00  0049  &O                    O.O* 0*00    0.000
Tedmio Tad 7m15  (2n.,.U)        040  0.00  Oil  0.0   Oil 0.0  OO.     0.01 0.0   00  0.0OA    * 0.00  0400 04  0.00  0.01  0.0  0.O0  Oil   O0  0.0  04D  Om                @40.0 0.0 U    0.0
Trainiung bAgp. 0I*.0  0.010  0*0  0M   0.0  0.40  OM.00                         U    * 0.04   .0   0010.    *.0   0000    0AS 0.0   A01  Oil  0.04  OM   0.   0.0  Oil  0*    *0   0.0  0.0  .0.0
HT.LPM. baboour co I"            O.0  0D00*   OA   0.00.40  0.04  0.011  0.01  0.0  0.01 0.06  Oil  0.0  0.0  0.20  0.01 A 000    4*V   0.0  00  0.0   Om    0* U 0.0   0600
W.T.P.U. bspiA                   Oil 0.01  0.0   0.10  04   0.0  0.0  0.019  0.0  0.00  0.010 0.04  O.   00  O.AR  0.09  0.0  0.00  0.00 04   0.M  0.0  0.0  OA               0*'L 04 00  900
NAX PAD. bmn~u (U  W             04S  0.0  Om* O 0* 0    0.00 0.04  0l,  0.01  O.0  0.05   A 0.0 i  0.0  0.01 0.20  0.01, 000  0.00 9*   0.0  0.0  0.AS 0*    OM*A0.   0.0  0.0
ft.7P.. 54pm*                    0.0  0.04  0.4  0OM   0.01  0.01 0.18  0.17   0.05 0.0  0.18  Oil  0.00  0.01  0.11  0.14  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.0  0.0  0.00  IN6    OA   0.0.A0  0.0
500"4042                            0M0.0 1.6900.OM0.010OM.OA 0CO 0.0 .OMO3 .6040.0610.4  0.0 0.6CB040*9*0.    OM .00.0  OAS                                                    0*0*0.0  0.0
ID4%- Ion. ftlp mid  m.W 50Ift m    0*0  0.00  0.111  0.41  04  0.0D 0.01  0.00   0.68 0.01  0.04  0.11  0.0  *.01  0.0s 0.28  0.0  0.0  0.04  0.0   04S 0.0  Oil  0*        OM   0.0i 0.0  0.0
abb2o 1l042AmI Sb.,muwq             0.6  0.00 8.20  0.60  0.12  0.01  04  0.70  0.10  0.09 O."  1.1?  0OM  0.010 0094  1.17  0.14  04K  0.01  9.75  0A  0.40  0.3  as    '0*  0.0  CO  0.0
Ajoswaui SoWme a KW$ .14          M0*-0.0  0.0   OA   049 0.0) 04  0.0   0.0r  0.01  0.00  0.14  0.011 0.00  0.06 0.28  0.00  0.0  0.0  0.39  004  00 049   A   OA    10*  0.0  0AO, 0.0
544.042 2mm1. poop                   0M   0.60* 0* Oi 0.0               0.01 .O   O    0.0   0.0  0.01  0.01 0.14  0.0  0.Og01   0.030.   0.0  0.01 .O 0.6    *   0.04  0.01  0A0  0*  0*00  0 .0  0 .00    £
1Um.tCVO   WM5 193*1. - MC            3.0   0. 14 70.75 154 *A   O..#  0.6  7.00.0   7.00 A 23.20 OLO  8.14  72.7  5.0 8454   8L.   2*0 10.0 10.1    240.35.L01   an6    Om  0.0  0.*  8.7  .
Mu2wmI Coimaprid.s                   200  0.6  7*   30.71   040 '0.F 0.01  0.6   0.4? 0.24  2001  2.04  0.75  0.3  2.31 8*   0.00  OM   1.6  2.12  0.M  0.0  OA   OM6    OM  0.01  0*   0.11 fA
Atim 0**2.2mi                        SAO  1.30  8*0  284   Oil 0.0   0.10.48  0.04  0*  .1A   24P  1.14  0.5  2.40 4.00   1.72  0*   2.16  $*   0.40  0.0  1.17  &"    06  0.6  0410  04 
IWN 0093685 Wm   OA - Tmm             6.18L 11.31 00.00 164   2*  0.61  $ 8.03        0.6  8.09 5.84I0.41  20A4  8.54 OM  42.44  .0.3 41 *546 0$.18   5*f  06  7.0 £.11   OA   0.14  1*0  Lot
3AVTh,l"Ims AfrIc ~Sww. a swomo    0.8 0.0    04 O   0.75  0.09 0.00  0.11  0.3   0.011 0.01  0.00  0.3   0.06 0.01. ON  0.14  0.001 041  UP   4    0         . 0.00 0.0        0* 00 0.0       0.0m
3.Aojinw03masmm  tt W00
hwmIJ04u.. / I'vh.1u111108 o O"  0.0  0.0  0.49  0.   0.01  0.40  0.09 0.0v  0.01  0.40  0.32  0.18   Oil  0.0  0.18  0.14  0.01  0.40  0.10  9.211  0.0  0.0  0*9  am    0*   0.0  0.0  0O0
PIemIcIPIr~~~o lemuaI   .1W   0.06  0.0  0.48  0.41  Ol  0.00  0.01 0.0   0.01  0.00  0.32  0.18  0.01  0.00 0.38  0.14  0.01  0.0 0.10 0.11   OA*00.0  0AR  4A    *0   *  0.0 0   0.0
OwO.?.o on.(D am & L.. S"wt  0.0  0.0o  0.m   0.40  0.01  0.D 0.32  0.14   0.01 0.100  0.00R0  0.0  0.40440  OM  0.2 * 0.01  O 0.0 0.3 44 00  0.0  0.04 A   60               0.8  0.0  0.0  0.0
0iI,in~~~IIa~~wuIa'.I 6 Im  0    0.06 0*   0."   0.00  0.0  0.11  O."0  0.0  0.01  0.00  0.28   0.04 0.01  0.0w  0.31  0.04  0.01  0.0  0  0.01of   0.90  0.00  OA    -06  0.0  0.0 10.
Om"  . Oubmctm Tratola           0.4I 0.04  0.0   0.54  0.06 0.01  0.01 0.0   0.3  0.01  0.0  0.28   0.18  0.0  0.00  0.31  0.30  041 0.01  0.32  044 0.0  0.0D Om    *04O0   0*0am
INA604! 25                         0AR  0.20  1.11   5.0  0,14  0.0   0*  0.00  O.0  0.00  0.0   0*   0*   0.01  04  06   0.-8  0.0  0.40 0.00  0.0  0.40  0.1   0.5   $0   0    0*A   0.40
SWAiA IIablbamal $wp                 1.34  0.28  2.44  5.76   0*  0.04  0.4  0.7?   0.O  0.04 0.6  1.40   0*0  0.04  0.00  0.6   0.56 0.00  0.84  4.0    04  0.01  0.3  060   0*A  0.0  040  0.40
WIM 090685389316M - aM  CM             1.14  0.28  1.4   5.761  0*B0.04  0.4  0.7   0.D  0.04  0.6  1.00  0*  0.40.006 0.45 0.00 0.             84 0.0 1   0 0.014 AO    0.32  0.1        0*.0.   0.00
0mIoe cmmtq.uu                       0.0  0.0  0.0   0.10  0.001 0.0) 0.00  0.05  0.00. 0.00  0.01  0.0 00  0.0  0.00. 0.0  0.40  D0.01  0.04   040  0.0.   01.3   $0   OA0  0404
Alim I"MIuinu                        0."  0.0S  Om   0.48  0.=  0.0  0.0  0.04  0.04  0.01  0.04  0.00   0.0  0.01  0.0  0.38  0.08  0.01  0.40  0.14  04R  0.0  0.0  40*         M    0.0  04M  00
MM 0O.OO068N   M 34-10 ?M              1.4SA   0.0  2.75  4481  0*00.00  0.81  0.6   0.   0.05 0.75  1.18  0M   0.65 0.76  ii?V 0.A  0.0  0.6  O."5  04  0.60.28  &w    as   OA0  am 



WM.               %w It A&IM  am          Wm o1 n.mw low          VW St Jm  am            WA & A*=o  SWm           m#: A*=n us             uSt .m am
muarm                     iOO. Us  no   Wm.   tc  usO  no   i               M TicMm  no  INA.  Uic  WM    -E  uW.   Uti  WM   Iam  IIXX   MiC  10 am   u.    IX   WMn  am   aOL
b*aww .1  p~~~~~~~~         0*0  0.3  O.M   3*    0.01  0.0  0.AF . 0.10 0.01 OM           0.01 0.1 4 0.12010.40 0.34   0.0 &      i   0.3  0.AQ  0.09  0.0  0*   0.0    0.0  0.0   *    0.01
emaeIeg Sla   Ia Il                  0,0  I.K  1.0    14   0.0  0.01  0.10  0.1   0.10  0.M  0.M  1019  0.01  0.C1  0.*  0.01   0.01  0.01  0.01  0.00   0.0  0.00  0.0   OA          8*    4A  04 0
6.d.*sl ad PW lb 11110101   us V UI r  0.40  0.*  0.1    0.5k  0.01  0.   0.10  0*1  0.R  0.0  041  0.4   0.01  0.01 O0*   0.01   0.01  0.01  0.40  0.09  0.01  0    0.00  OA    8*4   OA0  04 0
66wl I                                0M   046A  4.14   5,41  0.10  0.01  0.3  0.31  0.3  03  0.01  2.49   0M   0.21  1.09  1.S   0.0.0 0 *   0*   0.09  0*   0.3  40.                  OM  0    040  0.0
.sAeds of 0  my Lem  hSomlett        8.06  0.0 0.0   37 0.7 01U  0.01  2.00  201   1.00  0.00  6.0  0.67   LA   0.01 32*  14.14   0*00.00  8.84  8.78   4.000A010              0*     0M   0.A   0.0 0.0
L.Aw~.d O of    . A  n.m lammw"      0.6M  0.A   8*4   TM   0.40  0.01  0.01  0.01   0.015  0.19  2.09  2*   006  OM3  2.30  3.10   0.01  0.14  1.4  1.6   04   0.01  O*   OA    8*   8.0  0.M  0.00
e..f*. dt &3Isa L=  mad Ibaa Cm*  0M   0.01  .46  O.M   0.14  OM0  1.01  LWf   0.0  0.0 1 24  2.74   0.17  0.01  SAO  1.AP  0.61 000  0*   0*   040 0.00  0A.00                       41.4 8*    0* 0   DAD.
0.oPAlSId .3bp aJP  m  1ao1vo        0.01  04 2.012*   2*   0.01t  0.0  0.M   OM3  0.0  0.09  0*0*O   0.0t 0.68  0*100.19   0.01  0.S10,4  OM*A0.00.0    0.12 0.3I   8*   SA   OA0  0.0
O.*Aiw  of 0 " m                      - 0 O0   8.25   $A    0.01  0.0  0.3  0.3   0.04  0.16  1.36  1.01   0.02  0.01  1*M  1.34  0.01  0.0   0.3  0.25   0.010.000*A   40*    8*O  41A   A0  0.0
1.3., P.01. ft"l VW Pima             0*   0.4  4*   8.OS  0.10  0.3  1.30  1.40  0.1  0.1 31.3  1* OOl  .    .W1 0.01 0.09.V 0.01 1.1               0.0 0    0.3 0*   0*   041 0.18        0.10 8  *    * 8
o.iAau0. of Cro  A . £    04 oplomaal   0.11  0.3  1*   I.0   0.0  0.01  0*S  0.41  0.01  0.01  0*D  0M   OM  0.A  0*   0.39  0.0O1 0.010    0*1   0.0  0.00  0.01  0.0               OM  0*   040  0.01
8hWA 2                                 4.0 1.  OX 4.6    .7?   0*   0.31  L*   LO0   1.84  0*17*10.4A   1.65  0.84 19.91 2LI   0.84  0*   L.O  7.41   0*   0.6  OM  0.  00 8*                      OA*  0.0
SAbdies uod T.dmcrl Amlabu 
04"dI0                               0.Or  0.0  0M   0.4   0.01  0.01  0*C  0.09   0.00.01L  0.11, 0.14   0.01  0.01  0.09  0.11  0.0  0.00  0.01  0.09   0*   0.01  0.6  OA    #A   SIA  0    0.40
b.TewaIml Alafw  CM6 u4              0.*  0.0  1.10   LOS   0.0  0.010  0.0.3l0 0.00.0 0.01  0.A   0.0 CO 0.01 0* OM                 0.0.00A  0.25  0U    0.00  0.0  0.B 8*    8*    4*   OA   OA
a..Um P.btlm (US6 asi                0.01  0.01  0.01   1.3   0.18  0.01  0.11 0.101   0.31  0.01  0.3  0.41   0.17  0.01  0.16  0.40   0.01  0.00  0.09 0.17  0*   0.01  0*S  8.M    ON   60   0M   0.00
d.7w*rn)a                            0325  0.00  1.11  1I3   0.0  0.01O 0.30.    0.6  0.01  0.M 0  0. 069  0.01  0*   0*   0. 0.400  03A0 0.01O              O     0**A**  0*74       *      6   OA  .00
in*AI S                               0.X   0.0  8.3   4.3   0*   0.01  0.38  0.W1   .01  0.01  0.3  1.29   0M   0.01, 0AS  1.01   0.25  0.00  0.3  0.74   0*   0.00  0.28  60.         OM   SA  0*   0.0
los. WOOO   WiM  n. - OMCM              OA   3.3 WA.0   .4I  0.X   0.   4*0  7.01   2.25  0*3*L  3.M   2*   0.61 3.1 *WA    0*0  0*8  7*   0.30  044  0.0   0.01  L*    8*    41   0*0  0.00
l0raw  opmootImir                     0.30  0.31  2*   2.71.  0.09  0.   0M   0.0   0.06  0.6  0.6  1.00   06  0*W  0.78  0*6  0.019  0.M  0.0   0.4   0.01  0.01   0*   0.              41  41*   OA 0*0.00
Palm 01aa3mwlm                        1.01  0.X  4.74   3.11   0*O  0.0  0.15  0.39  03  0.20  1.35  16   0.46  0.215  2.16  2.74   0.30  0.06  1.0   2   * 0.0   0*   0.19  am6    8*   so  0*   OA0
mm09 C"M        O= a  - lSa. ini        7?0  2.30  11.10  74*  G0m   0.0   6f   0.0r  2.44  0.00 3.g03.74   2.0  0*A01.37  3.4    Us  0.46   .6  SAO   00  0.01  gm   LAP S 8*                   A 0*  A0 .0
Likpws101%t TMa0S, SINIM
8 SUbI SIA1d4                     0.2   0.6  0*0   0M   0.6  0.01  0.01  0.01   0.06  0.01  0.01  0.14   0.0  0.01  0.M  0.16   0.40  041 0.06  0.bk  0OA   0*0  0.01  OM    OM   40   0*a  0.0
b.Traom 1rn Sl2blp6a Now          0.A  0.00  0AD  0.*   0.00  0.01  0.01  0.09   0.0  0.01  0.0   0.40   0.00  0.01  0.006   0.D 0.40.DA 0 0.0.0O   0*x  0.0   0*m  0*    OA   8*  CIA
G.koffla Tpaim                    0.11  0.02  0.32   OM   0.06  0.0  0.01  0.10   0.01  0.0  0.015 0.10   0.0  0OM  0OAS  0.05   0.01  0.01  0.01  0.0   0.A   040 0.00  OAS   8    0*   0*0.00
d.ad"lcw DGml~ 92 *4              OAR0.00  0.14  0.*   0*0.0100  0.0              0.00  0.01  0.01  0.0 0.0O    0.0 0.0  00.0OA    0.01  0.00.06   OA   0*0 404           0**    O  8*   60   0*.OM
SAWI IA                             0AS  0.05  0.A   1.6   0.06  0.01  0.18  0.3   0.11  0.0  Cm1  0*   0.09  0.01  0.1. 0.3   0.0  0,01  0.11  9.17  0.01  0.0  0.3  OM    8*   40*   04   OA
sj60oo1avo~rivm                   0M   0.30  0.A1   1.2   0.01  0.01  0.13  0.01   0.69  0.60  0.3  0*   0.0  0.0   O*   0.31  0.09  0.01  0.19  09*   0.01  0*1  0.01  OA    8*   0*   0.0  0.00
b.Tmln*AIaig  awa                  0.0  0.01  0.01   0.40   0.0  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0 .01  0.0   041  000  0.01  0.0  0.0   0.01  0.00  0.01  0.0    0.0  0.00  0Cm   OA.   8*    *   0A*  0.0
0*obl 01                             0.3  0.10  0A    1*   0.01  0.01  0.16  0.19   0.01  0.01  0.3  04"  0.06  0.01  0*   0.M   0.09  0.02  0.19  0A   04I  0.00  0.0A 8     0A   ma    0.0  0.00
auk" 01*                             OA3  0.0   0.S   0.77  0.01  0.0A  0.01  0.3   0.L1  0.0  0.32  0.0    0.0  0.01  0.14  0.3   0.06  0.01  0.10  0.17   0.0   0.0  0.0  8*    OAS  60*   04   0.00
Mbb2 1                                0.01  0.3  1.01  8.01   0.16  0.01  0*0.0 O    O 0.30.0        0*0*     0 0.01  0X*0.9  0.1  0.01  0.41  OA   0.01  0.01  0.6  40.1               am   60   0*0.00D
'250O9.  n6   urn MC - mm CM            0    0.31  1.01  3.06  0.318  0.01  0*   0*   0.3  0.06  0.3  0*S  0*   0.06  0*   0.0   0.V7  0.01  0.41  0*B  0.0  0.0  0.09  &0.1    Q*   8*                     cc.0
"Wslin 01*lualm                       0.60  0.01 0.23   0*0   0.00.01  0.600.01   0.02  0.01  0.65  0.011  0.0  0.01  0.0  0.01   0.01 0.00  0.01  OAS9  OA000A   0.01  0*    8  0 * M O 0 0.01
MHDGm ow2a e1r                        0*2  0.04  0.18  0.0   0.01  0.00  0.01  0.0o  0.06  0.01  0.0  0.01   0.05  0.6  0*S  0.32  0.01  04 0.1 0.4  32  0.01  A0  0.I   A 0   0.6       *    0*   040  OA
MMs Cwin.. urn MC- 1VM. CM              1.11  0.3  2*   8*   O."0  0.04  0   .401&A   0.5  OAF  0.0  1.0   0*   0.06  0.40  LS 0.3  0.6  OA0  040   04S0.01   0.1  0.s    0*   40 *                     0* 4*
'A



*    i "lo Wo on   SIPI wO  WIo Ut  W9 &lig Wo U's  WL OLWtuoal Ut WW             W 315 8*   bu*'   Oro WC weo  NI  WuT It0s  Jo0 11tWIDlm
UVwO  60,0  a" St   S   Ato *0 *60  cri W*85 two WlO  1V  TOt *0 060  81T*, Ala 80o aWO  OT 0*0 *90 U'  01  We # 11 "I*9gmaaw  X1
a,: *o OW  We   WV sriL moo it's  0we we, os cos  wto 6iwe ce amn            g sa   we airutm Swe air  er: we  won evvi wu  Ws                       m -is
*0o *o 0)  St   &t lDo  WCtwo we  eq  Uo *wo Iwo  o000 wo U0O w*0             OroSU fO WC 08'    '  100   O WO  Sbr,I *0  W0'  WIt AM'   GNOMO  SOUJ  *Iin4 kulL
0w0  wo0 wo  on    w   wo wo awo  sro  wo ewo so  sw*o wo too  wor  wo  wo cwo wo  wo *wo 00o  wo  *o  wo Two  tro                                 IMAAM   t-SM
Cov cov 0w) a"   w*  sw0  00 TO  S*o awo ao m*0  u30  100o *0o *0  *0V   l wlo  &I0 *           0 *o 00 010  Ar TwO  *     00  u'  n  S  GNOMON ~11101W maow
000 *o0,0  a"   a* SW eO` wo XIV  old so swo 3'0  wlo itlo *0 iwo  wo  wo awo 4v0   wo swo Two tr   x    w0w    i  u SO  *0  WI               i SwJ*mi"  4flson ii 
two *o we  0*   a* 800 so ire  .o1 oo Oro 60   weo  io *o 'wo  mo  wno wlo swo  wo * woOD   wor                        wo  wo .oovo / OmwV,~ as'wI   m,, su ufwo
oco  w   wo w*    St Twoa 00 two  ayo ow0  wo  wo  *0  wo  wo awo  wo Two owo wo  WC0 w TOr *              o *0 oU  wo oro wo          /        A4   UdM l0Df~A"t4
00  Oro 0)0 are   St O*  000 Two  00  *o 000  ODCOro0 IwoO) 000 *            o * 10 0 000 swol  TO 000 000  wo  Iwo  w0 1000 "90                VA%wdKO ~t*'ooi4'
*0o Oro 0   Oro   WV Oro Oro  wo  Iwo  woOD 00 300  *0  Tot *0r  100  *o10 Two *0          o tWO  *   *0I (00  TOr w Stwo Col wo           *mR_   gown    ' """
two0w 000  1, SOr   WID *o Oro Oro  *0  TwO 0  wO 100 W   WOt *D0  WOt  TO TWO ODV TwO  TOO OODW   W    W               O(VOO -n&m *0  *0  *0   0)I *0  *0  0w&
Coo Oro# 0) 69r   We Too 0)~ too  IWO Tot 00 wo a    too aso  ooo  wo   o   wo0 co  awo 00 r TWo T WC Iwo0 TW C 1   10 0o wo                  'Tw'io P- vbuoIew
owo 000 C) we   m) Two owo TwO  wot Two o0r) awo  wo) awo 0D) WO  WO 0O   W*0 D'  I)  IWO 00) TWO  Varo W  Wo OtO 00                                 p"PAOP
00)  0w0  tv 0w#   w1   0   00)   0m mov So Oro  to wo *a Soao  * wo so   D*Z' r  AOW0690VVOD*0 3)- aro0  WIt  wo £@V  Wt:                     (n so0 .p* eu we
3Q00ItA  Ud mmo
VAL " amSw*  an   mu  mmw ato'  'wm ,ow m  immL To   Nu w  vm am           'VIO Im  UwL s 1  '    mm amL an k            uat WiL*m*               meft
sewatu :g3 -ia     so :931' .SI       WI' *mw 401  mu    Om  ST   V Wm gula    3seT  gey   Wm  Tee: M     :; mm



liElBC OFGA
bawd Tran1twb bihs  I itatJon Pr.jamb
_ry Flnnulrq Plan
U sit I ton)                          F7onu Swam
403                    Cdiawcls
QU. Fw... .
Leal   Tom   Porep    Total    IDA & Bu pt)          SF               MA        EA     S 0
A.C      S tE  "                          -        -       -. -                                _ -   -                  _ -
-(dth Cmanismles)
l.Tu* be SWmIllbl. Pr eVr
catl beW Waft                  23.2     9.5     78.15    11.8    52.4   69.4
25.O.sp aWnd &pervIsan                1.3    0.84      8.05      S1      4.8   0.25
lC.kb) I Il Pi                        0.80    0.6      4.60     6.12    5.58    0.56
3.I.a a Ers"    pt_fUA                0.28    0.15     1.41     1.6D    1.62   0.18
8Al Tnwd bu SbeM I l t1ln Pro"_         3.2    10.1# 82.41    25.08    64.45 O.8O           0.00     0.9O     0.00   0.00    940
2.1ri*1 P rom
5.9rIdphb*lIItmblen                   1.26   0.76      0.5       6.74            0.44                               0.60
v1.G*1rj* bumble, Spem - NW           0.0    0.21      0.08      1.28    1.11    0.12
X.0migh md tervsldon (2u0g            0.40   0.08      0.17      0.00            0.08                               07
10.T.dolcal D1istm  - MU (    )       0.01   0.        0.10      0.22    0.12
$StataI Brt  Program                    1.72   0.D       8.06    10.6    1.28    0.60       0.00     o.ao     Om.    J.l?    9.0
8.SMboDigns - bior buds R_ db. Progm    0.29   0.12      1.42     1.48    1.48
4.tItuboal 91ru tn
4t.T.dmlcm  Aamltenm WwOwhape         0.01    0.00     0.54     0.61    0.01    o.a
4.T.dh.AsI -     1  Dl mp   t  Plamlri    0.12   0.00  0.98      1.06    1.05    0.00
C.Trsinlre                            0.88    0.08     1.66     2.32    2.19   0.18
4.0GR  lo atd    m                    0.30   0.08      0.2D     0.2    0.52    0.00
ftbtml Ieb*itAlomu Srngming             0.84   0.22      8.64     4.SD    4.87    0.18      0.00     0.0Q     O.OD   0.00    0.0o
5.1namtiv. Preor
A.H*sno Sc_ In Fi-ld                  0.86   0.01      0.5      0.45     0.35   0.10
Subtoi Inetive Progw". 0.85    0N                        0s       0.04     0.     O. 0.10   0.00     0.00     0.OD   0.00    O.OD
TOTL ca         Low              J.15   11.73    95.87    142.80   72.24   0.18              0.00      0m0       .OD   J.6      0.00
lJ.Vas*tal suport
1A.Tralnalr, Office T1opnt. & Eqalpet   0.39   0.07    0.42     0.58    0.84    0.05
2.Pr.ot Mins t Iblt                   1.04   0.22      2.88      8.40    8.18   0.81
TUIIL WI615   St I#                       1.48   0.2D      2.75     4.8     4.02    0.86     0.00      0.0      0.0Q   0.00    O.OD



&bi:stt                  :M   6!
cawm  'mmw atm_ms
c     aUs  IMubit                                      I                                                  '               '             ;X~.nnn
*.1U. btW J     C     _              0.80   0.05      0.2      007    OOD    OA.07
LoSI        1                        0.7    0.X       2.2I     .1)    2.5    0..4
.fi     t    Wo Whop       0.0    0.15      1.61     1.74            0.10     0.10
4 T)ps 1151 L   _na.mos U    0.20     0.7A  768    6.5      .   006 0  V
_1 .rtlli_ S-1U1 0Aw.6?MoW  Lr               OX       4.201    0.0051                   040               Om    0.00    L .
d.bwhmuId.910t-1Law a.g biwm         0       0.5      2.1        7 
_Pwv      s to0 and Pl1u              0.6    0.68     7.70     410            0.491    .74
eAdo  at 6-d  La   & Nwi cm   n.7  o.oo               LOD  ¢."
d.tmwtl of 10 It 3M Looeml           0.08   0.25      LOS      tx      LOS   0;3
OA          d'u of _D    .lo 0. .J                    LI       4AS             0.42     S.74     '.              
t-om ,lbN Vw,  s Tb     flblw        0.4    0.6       507      .0      1.*    0.70      8.;.
_Jbb. ofd'rew & _tb   Wghopplpb    0.14   0.20        1.5      1.38    1.01   015      0..0
_ibbAst Obillmi; ftm*                  5.5    2.10    5.68        .68    5S   2.10.  2.Jt D.4              0       0       0.0
Lhd)a aid Tadatos As.)ab.us
ajbdis.                              0.0t   0.0       0.48     0.55    0.15
baTd1mi A.14.gs (0                   0.15   0.00      1.34     1*t 1.3'
&Us. PosIftins (203OM                0.78   0.0*      0.56     1a      1.3;
; TrsIn)q                            0.3    0.00    11        1A*     1.00             0.A
SMbtl Skdt) & A Tomloml A tsbos        1.14   0.05    L8l6    4.82    4.88               0*       90       0*    0.,0   0*        .;
TOlL WiSeNNS hOE SC                      ?.S    L.10    04.20    74.1    14.00   8.1  10.3          .45      0      0.00    La
.M.    "an MdI -r.                   0.44   0.05      0.74     1.3     1.14   0..
5.Sasb*ld. Tv,rl;                    0.1   0*11       1.05     .1      1.40   0.11
,Adt                                 0.#1   0.06      0.64     0.95    0.75   0.10
ISe. minis IllS MLC 1.11  0X7                           2.18     8*0     8O   0.3         0.0"       0      00    0         0'
lA      b Com     M   o1b IiwPopot. to_  2.3U   0.11    0.A8     2.09    244   0.54                                      :      . I
=IL N l mm  Msf Ox E    p                LIS 2.3    0.O1  0.5     2.68    2.44   0.64      0.00     0*       0*    0*    0*
- A
lUlL ~~0.Et     47.87   15.05   105.3   37.04    68.00  6.85      10.3    12.45      0.51   0.57     1*~~~~~~, 



- 14? -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 2
_jc w 
in.   Tu w    4AUVAWE .Tw
_*  Ub     ,no            r _m   *Wa-MA8tm
I. ONA
CivilS. bI 141d   A             2.0    10.0              0.6               s1.0   sst.e
Maintmnance Ware               (44.1)  (10.1)            (0.6                      (54.6)
swig.. tear Pam-..              9.1     0.8     0.5                                 9.9
VbeoI  A Malrtials             (6.1)   (0-@)   (0-4)                                (66)
orlItiA  servics.                              6.6                         2.2    10.6
?sdmI.at  Am.tano. A Trainins                   (6-6)                               (6.6)
Subt.t.g  OHNA                  61.1    10.8     9.1      0.6       0.0     86.1   141.8
(52.3)  (10.4)   (9.0)    (0.8)     0.0      0.0   (72.1)
i. MRN
Civl. Ibildito                          0.4                                         0.4
ointeaun..v.rka                        (0.6)                                        (0.8)
Sotopmia. Spar. ftuia.                  0.2                        0.8              0.8
Vbt.lbI..Aht.rials                     (0.1)                      (0-.)             (0.8)
CIm.iting                                       8.5                                 8.6
Tamaleal A.l.ta. &T 1rmining                   (8.4)                                (3.4)
1taut   N f IH                   0.0     0.6     8.5      0.0       0.6      0.0     4.4
0.0   (0.4)   (6.4)      0.0     (0.1)     0.0    (4.0)
Um. aR C
Civil, gail iding                .1     0.6                                 0.6     4.8
lbina_aaaa  works              (2.9)   (6.7)                                       (-.6)
soi ,mt. ape" Pae..             4.7     0.8              0.6       0.5      .9    64.9
Veiles. & bt.rlai.             (4.4)   (6.3)            (6.6)     (0.4)            (6t6)
uonltini Sle -m,                                4.0                                 4.0
Tedklial £aaiAt.a. & Training                  (4.6)                               (4.8)
ata1l OI R C                     7.6     1.1    4.9       0.8       0.8 O    95    74.8
(7.8)   (1.0)   (4.6)    (0.6)    (0.4)     0.0   (14.0)



- 148 -
ANNEX 3-13
Page 2 of 2
o:r
awu.r                          RV        18S   AJ1      CIR.  81497M   N.A. 6/  TrAL
IV. K TC
Ctwi , Ibilrding *                         8                                           0.8
Ibiutmuan. ~~~avlge ~(@.4)                                                   (0.4)
Spar. P -    t.    M            Q              =            0.7-              1.4
Vehicte. A Witerials                     (0.6)                        (0-6)             (1.2)
Consultins Sarviess.                               1.8                                   1.8
Tchnitcal A.idbace 4 TraIning                     (1.7)                                 (1.7)
Subtotal H T C                     0.0     1.2      1.8      0.0       0.7       0.0     8.7
0.0    (1.0)   (1.7)      0.0       (0.6)     0.0    (8.5)
V. DFR
Civwl iowl ling                           1.7               0.a                         2.0
Itntennce works                          (1.5)             (0.8)                        (1.8)
ESlq t, Spero Part.                                         0.1       0.3               0.4
vehicle. * Materials                                       (0.1)      (0.2)             (0.8)
scaulting ServIce.                                 0.5                                  0.5
Techical Aa.Iatac A Trainln                       (0.4)                                 (0.4)
utota  0 F R                       0.0     1.7      0.5      0.4       0.8       0.0     2.9
0.0    (1.5)   (0.4)    (0.4)       (0.2)     0.0    (2.8)
TOTAL PR0JN
Civil. Smilidng                  8s.1    21.4      0.0      0.9       0.0      51.6   129.0
illntenc. Work                  (47.0)  (18.1)    0.0      (0.0)      0.0       0.0   (60.9)
Eulpeent. Spare Porte.           1.8 .    1.       0.5      0.8       1.6      ".0    77.1
VehIcle. * iterials             (12.6)   (1.2)   (0.4)    (0.6)       (1.4)     0.0   (16.2)
Cmnulting Serylic.                0.0     0.0    19.8       0.0       0.0       2.2    21.5
Technicwl Am1_Idene A Training    0.0     0.0   (16.9)      0.0       0.0       0.0   (18.9)
TOWAL iOJCr                       68.9    22.9    19.8       1.5       1.8    112.7   227.6
(89.6)  (14.5)  (19.8)    (1.4)      (1.4)     0.0   (96.0)
*/ Figure. In parentheala ar. the reaptive asn_tn finanmed by IDA.
b/ Not Applicable (include  Bilateral ilo4  and _tem fully funded by a00).



- 149 -
Page 1 of I
WUUL?C OF 4A1W
Sceod Transport RehbUlttEleml Project
Dlnbureemest Seh.dul- a/
Cumulative Olbubresment,
quarter                  pprtirl              Cuuiati,o.
(USO mtillion)
FP91
June                   2.88                     ax
FY92
September              5.70                     ax
December               8.64                      01
March                 11.52                    12X
June                  14.40                     15X
FY9S
September             18.24                     10o
December              22.00                     283
March                 26192                    271
June                  29.76                    81s
FY94
Septembr              U .46                     81x
December              48.20                    45X
March                 49.92                    52X
Jun-e                 5.64                     59X
FY9C
September             68.80                    O0
December              70.06                     78X
March                 76.80                    s0X
June                  0.62                     071
September             00.2                     92
December              91.20                    051
March                 94.0                     98X1
June                  06.00                   1OOX
a/ Credit assumed to become effective on April, 1001



-150 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Environmental Impact Analysis
1.        All periodic maintenance operations which would form part of the
trunk road stabilization program would involve regraveling. resealing or
resurfacing of secondary roads. This implies that physical works would be
limited to remedial measures on the existing pavements and on lateral and
cross drainage facilities. Realignment of project roads or road widening
and subsequent relocation of utilities on private property would not be
undertaken. No high cut and/or fill sections, creation of potential
landslide areas or intrusion of the aesthetic environment would occur.
Location of borrow pits, primarily for the excavation of gravel material
for embankment and sub-base construction, would be regulated. Exposed
areas, after completion of the works, would be appropriately landscaped,
e.g., resurfaced and/or replanted to prevent erosion. Lateral and cross
drainage facilities such as lateral ditches and culverts would be designed
and constructed to avoid or reduce erosion and siltation.
2.        In the case of paved roads, waste material stemming from broken-
up pavements, particularly surface treatments, would either be recycled or
properly disposed of in ways not leading to environmental or aesthetic
problems. As regards gravel roads, no waste materials would arise since
existing surface layers would be fully incorporated into the new gravel
pavement as sub-base material. Bridge works would be limited to
rehabilitation or reconstruction of existing trunk road bridges and would
concentrate on the replacement of specific substructure or superstructure
elements. Since all bridges under the project would remain in their
present locations, no negative environmental impacts are expected.
Contractor camps would be of a temporary nature only and contractors would
have to ensure that appropriate measures would be incorporated in the
execution of works for dealing with disposal of liquid and solid wastes,
particularly oil wastes.
3.        Increased road traffic safety is an important objective of the
proposed project and this would have a long-term positive environmental
impact by reducing accidents and damage to private property. Improvement
of road geometrics would serve at locations of traffic hazards (generally
called 'black spotse in Ghana) to increase traffic safety. Design and
location of road signs and roadside furniture including speed reduction
measures would be regulated to avoid traffic safety hazards and minimize
visual intrusion. Traffic and geometric design measures would especially
be used to ensure both traffic safety of pedestrians and users of non-
motorized means of transport. This would particularly apply where trunk
roads pass through villages and towns.



-151-
ANNEX 3-15
Page 2 of 2
4.        To ensure compliance with the above environmental protection
measures during the planning and construction stages of the project, the
terms of reference for both the road design and supervision consultants
would be formulated accordingly. Equally, bidding documents for paved and
gravel road works would contain clearly spelt-out instructions and
requirements to enable bidders to properly price environmentally sound
construction. Adequate funds for design and supervision consultants have
been provided to ensure, inter alia, environmentally sound design and
construction practices. In addition, proposed training and institutional
support for road and transport sector agencies would help to generate
awareness of environmental concerns in road design amd construction, as
well as in transport planning including traffic safety.
5.        As part of the proposed northern region pilot scheme some 150 km
of so-called single blade local roads would be constructed. These are
upgrading works which would take place on existing tracks, trails and paths
and would result in permanent access to some 50 selected villages and
between these villages and the feeder road or trunk road networks. The
roads would have widths of only 3 meters and would be gravel-surfaced.
They would primarily serve for non-motorized transport. Promotion of non-
motorized transport would reduce dependence on motor-transport in rural
areas. Existing tracks, trails or paths would need some widening, but
realignment would not take place. Thus, existing land-use patterns
including human settlement structures would not be altered. No new access
routes leading to forest resources would be opened up and the pilot project
would also not lead to increased use of forest resources. Construction
works would be labor-intensive using trained local contractors.
6.        The railway component would include, inter alia, limited
drainage improvements and some sleeper renewal on the Western Line. The
improvement of drainage would avoid future erosion and siltation. Sleepers
used on the line would most likely be metal and could possibly be replaced
by concrete, but not by wooden sleepers. The railway track component would
also include the use of herbicides for inhibiting the growth of weeds on
tracks. GRC has tested and standardized on Erbotan and Atranax which do
not contain Alachlor, a known carcinogen. The retired sleepers, the
proposed refurbishing of 1851 class locomotives and of a 60/40 ton crane,
as well as the major overhaul of 1651 class locomotives, would yield scrap
and waste material which would need to be disposed off in a way that would
not lead to aesthetic or other environmental problems. Particularly oil
waste from locomotives would be disposed off carefully to prevent run-off
which could contaminate ground water. Adherence to these measures would be
achieved by stipulating appropriate requirements in the contracts covering
refurbishing and overhauling activities.
AF4IN
October 1990



-152-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 13
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Evaluation of the Railway Component
General
1.          GRC's financial objectives are broadly defined in the July
1982 decree that amended the bylaws that put in place the new
reorganization of GRC. It required GRC to pursue a long-term objective of
achieving financial self-sufficiency that will permit phasing out
Government subsidies. The present financial evaluation assesses the impact
that the proposed project and the fulfillment of performance targets will
have upon GRC's future financial situation.
Past and Present Financial Performance
2.        Attachment 1 provides the notes to the financial statements
while Attachments 2 to 3 provide historical and projected financial data
pertaining to GRC's operations. Attachment 4 provides the current and
proposed freight and passenger tariff structure, and Attachment 5 provides
GRC's past income statements.
3.        GRC has undertaken two Bank financed projects.  The first
project (Cr. 1170-GH) was to rehabilitate the Western Line. As part of the
on-going TRP-1 (Cr. 1858-GH) investments complement works under Cr. 1170-
GH and some rehabilitation of the Central and Eastern Lines. The
implementation of Cr. 1170-GH started in 1980 and the project was completed
in early 1989. The implementation of Cr. 1858-GH started in 1988 and is
expected to be completed in 1993.
4.        GRC's financial performance during the period 1983 through 1986
was poor. (Unaudited financial statements are in project files Document
No. 77 of TRP-1). This was primarily due to: (a) delays in the
implementation of the rehabilitation project for the Western Line;
(b) excessive levels of manpower; (c) constraints in the railway's freedom
to adjust rates and fares; (d) poor management leading to unsatisfactory
performance in equipment availability and quality of service; and (e) lack
of financial resources for satisfactory maintenance that led to the total
deterioration of the Central and Eastern Lines. As a result, GRC had heavy
operational losses on a steeply rising trend and drastic decline in market
share.
5.        Measures to tackle the main problem areas taken since 1985 and
still being implemented as part of the TA program under TRP-1 have had a
positive impact in GRC's financial prospects. These improvements have been
the result of better management, with better services, increases in the
volume of traffic and in rates and fares.



- 153 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 13
6.        In 1987, while the financial situation of GRC was still not
satisfactory, it reflected improvements for the first time in the last
decade. The results of the investments in the Western Line were beginning
to bear fruits. The working ratio improved from a high of 2112 in 1986 to
154? in 1987. This was primarily due to dramatic increases in freight and
passenger traffic that increased from a low of 74 million ton-km in 1985 to
110 million ton-km in 1987. Notwithstanding the above improvements, the
financial situation remained critical due tot excess staffing, the
inability to increase tariffs to required levels in 1987, the large
increase in salaries for all staff during late 1985 far above the annual
inflation rate, and the gross inadequacy of bauxite freight rates and
passengers tariffs. These issues were addressed during implementation of
the TRP-1 project.
7.        In 1988, the working ratio improved to 1212.  In 1989, it
slightly deteriorated by increasing to 1232. Nonetheless, the working
ratios for 1988 and 1989 were better than projected in the appraisal report
of TRP-1 , which were 1362 and 1352 respectively. This took place despite
the fact that the total ton-km of the whole system reached only 126 and
132 million ton-km respectively as against previous projections of 138 and
172 million ton-km. This improvement, even in the face of lower traffic,
was due to betterment in the overall management of GRC. As a result, GRC
attained a better rate of utilization of mainline locomotives (average
utilization in the last quarter of 1989 was 225 kmslday against a target of
220 kmslday), reduction in the number of staff at a faster rate than
projected, increases in total income due to higher tariffs for bauxite and
manganese, and increases in the number of passengers, with tariffs that
even if still very low, nonetheless contributed to fixed and administrative
costs.
8.        The financial results for 1989 were below expectations due to a
combination of negative factors that affected the ability of GRC to carry
all the freight that was available. New locomotives to be procured under
Crs. 1170-GH and 1858-GH were not available, and GRC was not able to import
essential spare parts and materials due to the inability of the Government
to provide the annual foreign exchange provision, amounting to US$1.5 m, to
cover the cost of imported spare parts, in accordance with the respective
covenant in Cr. 1858-GH. Against the agreed annual amount, GRC received
only US$0.5 m for 1988 and another US$0.5 m for 1989. Consequently, the
locomotive availability decreased from 65Z by the end of 1988 to 55? by the
end of the first quarter of 1989. The situation further deteriorated and
by the end of August, 1990, the availability of mainline locomotives
dropped from 55? reached in the last quarter of 1989 to 48?. Also average
utilization of mainline locomotives decreased to 220 kms/day against a
target of 230 kms/day. After realizing the seriousness of the problem, the
Government released the full 1990 allocation of US$1.5 m in early 1990.
Arrangements for cofinancing of new locomotives and for the rehabilitation
of old locomotives are being negotiated.



- 154 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 13
%RC'. Financial Structure
9.        GRC's main revenues are income derived from freight,
transportation of parcels and luggage, and passenger services. The
contribution of freight to the total operating revenues has increased from
53? in 1987 to 58Z in 1989 respectively, while that of parcels and luggage
has been constant at about 10 during the period 1986 and 1987 decreasing
to 7? in 1989. Revenues from passengers have increased from 25Z in 1986 to
an average of about 33? in 1989. Freight mainly involves four commodities,
cocoa, timber, bauxite and manganese. Tariffs on these commodities were
iacreased from July 1-985 to January 1986 by 38, 35, 71 and 71%
respectively. Further increases took place in 1988 and 1989 which allowed,
according to estimates provided by consultants, the present tariffs for all
commodities to cover their respective variable costs and contribute to
fixed costs. During the 1988-1989 period, passenger tariffs were raised
less than freight, but they now cover variable costs. After the
improvement on the Western Line, the Government agreed to the necessary
fare increases. Non-operational income has been significant due to
payments from the Government in the form of subsidies to cover operational
costs. Government equity contributions complement GRC's income as a source
of funds. It is expected that all Government operational subsidies will
cease starting in 1994.
10.       In 1989, a high 70? of total operational costs were allocated to
personnel expenditure. On the other hand, the total amount expended in
materials for routine maintenance of only 17? of total operational costs
was very low since it only comprises purchases of local stocks. The
failure of the Government to fully and timely disburse the required funds
did not permit GRC to purchase imported parts. As noted in para 8, the
Government disbursed promptly the allocation for spare parts for 1990,
similar actions annually up to 1992 coupled with new locomotives, will help
GRC meet its targets, to become more effective, and be able to carry the
forecasted freight.
11.       At the end of 1989, GRC had a long term debt of US$11 m.
However, as the new project (TRP-2) is implemented, this would increase
dramatically to about US$88 m in 1995. Since the Government so far bears
the exchange risk, GRC's debt service in current cedis is low. The
debt/(debt + equity) ratio of only 9? is misleading; as GRC's new projects
get underway, its full impact is shown in 1995 as the ratio increases to
44?. GRC has large net losses due to high depreciation cost resulting from
low utilization of its assets. Full utilization (principally investments
in the Central and Eastern Lines) will not occur until well into the
implementation period of the proposed project.
CRC's Overall Investment Program and Financint Plan
12.       GRC's planned investment for the project execution period (1991-
1995) amounts to US$74.6 m, not including capitalized interest amounting to
about US$2.8 m (this figure does not include the capitalized interests
generated by TRP-1).



- 155 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 13
13. *     IDA and proposed cofinanciers, CCCE (France), ADB, ODA (.UK) and
others, are expected to provide financing to GOG which in turn will on-
lend the proceeds to GRC. IDA would provide financing of US$14.0 m under
the project. Co-financing sources would provide financing of US$57.1 m to
GRC. It is expected that the proceeds of the IDA and cofinanciers credits
will be on-lent under the following terms and conditions: 20 years
including seven years of grace with an interest of 8Z per annum. GRC will
bear the exchange risk. The Government will provide funds for equity
participation in the amount of US$150.000, in addition to the US$2.8 m of
interest during construction.
Financial Protections and Future Financial Performance
14.       Due to the time-lags involved in getting the locomotive
replacement and rehabilitation program in place, the traffic performance
and financial results of GRC will not significantly improve until 1993.
From 1994 onwards Government operational subsidy including funds to cover
the foreign exchange needs for spare parts, and the special subsidy to
cover the cost of redeployment of staff to allow GRC to meet its agreed
target of staff reductions, will not be required, as GRC becomes
financially self-reliant.
15.       In order for GRC to be able to generate internally required cost
contributions to eliminate Government subsidies after 1993 as shown in the
financial projections, GRC would need to reduce the number of staff on a
yearly basis from the present level of 6,850 to 6,000 by 1995. Any real
increases in individual salaries would come from savings and from increased
efficiency in the operation of GRC.
16.       The objective of GRC's future financial policy is:
(a) to attain a working ratio of at least 1612 in 1991; 142Z in
1992; 972 in 1993; 812 in 1994 and 762 from 1995 onward;
(b) to maintain a debt equity ratio of no more than 55/45 from
1995 onward; and
(c) that new long term debt would be subject to prior review
and agreement with the Association and debt-coverage ratio
would be less than 1.5 during the term of the new debt.
These ratios vary from those agreed for TRP-1 as a result of changes in
GRC's cost structure due to the rehabilitation of the Central and Eastern
Lines, and the larger than expected rehabilitation and replacement cost of
rolling stock due to the lack of imported spares parts for more than two
years.
17.       The combination of increased freight and passenger traffic,
reduced staff number, increased operational efficiency and tariff increased
in real terms should effect a significant improvement in the financial
situation by 1993. This is reflected in a forecast positive income before
depreciation and decline in the working ratio from 1602 in 1990 to 762 in



- ~156-
MUNEX 4
Page 5 of 13
1995 in line with the financial objectives of GRC under the project. The
achievement of these targets and implementation of tariff actions would be
closely monitored under project execution. A working ratio covenant as
well as a debt equity and a debt coverage ratio covenant are proposed.
18.       To complement the actions that would be taken by GRC, the
Government has agreed to provide timely and adequate funding (para 4.07).
A covenant for the Government to provide timely funds for capital
expenditures, operational subsidy and subvention all in accordance with the
targeted financial objectives has been agreed.
19.       If the proposed working ratio covenant is satisfactorily
complied with, the projections also Indicate that GRC would have an
adequate cash flow to cover debt service and other investments. The
projections also indicate that all types of Government subsidies will be
completely eliminated by the end of 1993. Other agreements under TRP-1 on
revaluation of assets will be kept under the new project.
AF4IN
October 1990



-157-
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 13
Attachment I
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Notes to the Financial Statements
General
1.        The financial statements of 1990 have been projected on the
basis of estimated financial results for the first four months adjusted to
take into account the additional cost resulting from the use of imported
stock required for an adequate maintenance. In addition to the traffic
assumptions (Annex 2-12) the projected financial statements of 1990-1995
(Attachments 2 to 5) are based on assumptions summarized below. All
fiaures are in constant prices of mid 1990 and in millions of cedis.
Income Statements
2.        Total Goods, Parcels and Passengers Revenues for 1990-1995 are
based on the actual (third quarter of 1990) and projected (1991-95) average
tariffs charged (Attachment 4). It is assumed that from 1990 on, tariff
increases in real terms will take place every year as assumed in
Attachment 4.
3.        Other Non-Operating Revenues are Government transfers to GRC as
subvention to cover short falls in the operating cost of GRC and to assist
GRC in the procurement oQ  imported spare parts and materials.  It is
projected that starting in 1994 no compensation will be paid as the tariffs
proposed would be idequate.
4.        All Operating Costs have been grouped into three categories:
fixed, variable and management overhead. Cost due to the personnel
reduction plan are included into variable costs.
5.        The most recent cost information and economic evaluation reports
prepared by GRC based on the traffic costing study implemented last year
were used as the basis to derive the projected costs (Rites Consultants,
Traffic Costing, March 1986 - Project File Document Number 9 (TRP-1);
Economic Appraisal Report on Rehabilitation of Central and Eastern Lines,
December 1986 - Project File Document No. 10 (TRP-1); Economic Appraisal
Report on Rehabilitation of Western Line, December 1986 - Project File
Document No. 11 (TRP-1)). Also the projections take into account savings
derived from the reduction of personnel but they do not reflect any
potential cost savings from projected improvements in operational
efficiency.
6.        Fixed costs are those which do not change in magnitude with the
variations in the quantity of output. Conversely, variable costs are
sensitive to changes of output. The projected fixed costs includes beside



158 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 13
superintendence and general management that change very little with
reference to short run changes in the volume of traffic, maintenance of
structures and also of permanent way to a substantial extent. Variable
costs are generally the costs of provision, maintenance and operation of
rolling stock, cost of fuel, wages of train crews and running staff.
7.        Fixed and variable costs for 1990 are based on the budget
approved this year, and further adjusted according to the preliminary
accounting information available by the end of September, 1990. These
costs take into account the actual need of parts and spares for adequate
maintenane.  Therefore, they reflect not only local purchases of stock but
imported parts as well. The projected figures for the period 1991 to 1995
also take into account the costs derived from local and imported stocks.
Fixed cost have been apportioned among three segments (Western, Central and
Eastern Lines) based on the theoretical volume of traffic up to the year
1995. Variable costs are projected according to the actual volume of
traffic using unit costs applicable to the projected volume of traffic.
Total costs will decrease in real terms due to the decrease in personnel,
from the present strength of 6,850 to 6,000 by 1995. Variable cost for
goods and parcels will increase in proportion to the volume of cargo being
carried. For passengers, it increases in proportion to the number of
trains and not in direct proportion to the passengers carried.
8.        Management Overhead is projected to remain constant during the
period in real terms. It is assumed that GRC, with its present number of
staff at management level (except for the addition of very few highly
technical positions) will be able to manage the traffic projected up to
1995. In any case, most of the personnel retrenchment will be at lower
staff levels.
9.        Depreciation.  In the absence of a reliable revaluation index,
such as a national construction index or similar, the 1990 gross fixed
assets and accumulated depreciation are revalued in line with the average
increase of the overall cost of operation of GRC. However, the beginning
gross balance of fixed assets in 1990 is only 50Z of the total value
resulted from the study for the revaluation of fixed assets with the real
cost of revalued assets taking into account the deteriorated physical
condition of the Central and Eastern Lines. However, due to lack of
maintenance, both lines now will be completely rehabilitated by TRP-1
through the Italian Credit. Therefore, the revalued fixed assets on the
Central and Eastern Lines are much lower than anticipated.
10.       Annual depreciation charges are projected based on a 2.52
depreciation rate applied to gross revalued fixed assets. This percentage
is the weighted average rate of all combined assets taking into account the
weight or average rate of all combined assets, assuming a normal life span
and their revalued cost as shown in the revaluation study.
11.       Interest Expenses are operational interests only.  It is
projected that all interests during construction will be capitalized. Up
to 1992, this includes interest during construction and the commitment fee
for Credit 1858-GH and interest and other bank charges from other short



-159-
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 13
term liabilities. In 1994 and after, all interests are accounted as
operational expenses.
Balance heet and Cash Plow Statement
12.       Accounts Receivables for Services.  Projected to remain at 1OZ
of total revenues.
13.       Inventories during the projected period are in excess of the
stock needed to satisfy GRC normal maintenance because this account
includes materials to be used in the implementation of the ongoing
projects. Total inventory projects will show a decrease in stock as
inventory will be depleted starting in 1993 to reach appropriate levels by
1995. Thereafter the value of the inventory would be equivalent to about
nine months of material and three months of fuel.
14.       Accounts Payable include payments due to suppliers and
contractors in the normal line of business of GRC. They are projected to
increase in line with increases in revenues, though as a percentage of
revenues, they should be maintained at a constant level. They do not
include any project related accounts.
15.       Lona-Term Debt projected on the basis of GRC's existing and
future debt service requirements based on terms and conditions of on-
lending terms for Crs. 1170-GH, 1858-GH and the terms for the proposed
credit.
Investments
16.       Total Investments includes all railway expenditures by IDA and
other agencies under TRP-1 and all the railway expenditures under the
proposed project (TRP-2) financed by IDA or any other cofinancier,
including government capital contributions and taxes. During the
implementation period 1990-1995, other works would be implemented to cover
other urgent needs.
17.       Debt Service.  Projected debt service requirements reflect
interest and principal payments on existing and future borrowing.
Contributions
18.       Government Canital Contributions.  The projections take into
account the approximate US$2.80 m to be provided by Govertment during the
project implementation period toward project financing including payment of
interest during construction.
AP4IN
October, 1990



- 160--
_14.4-U  turn  iwo  iwo  twa       i.e.    £u~   ~               ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 13
IM      STlTO        111I leao Cadls
I -O -SAM-T-----                                                                                       Attachment 2
MESTEN UIE a REVEN*ES
OOS                                         17      1t1x        2        815       8        404
PASSENE                                      we       so        74        on       10so     1140
PARCELS                                      142      -in       at         Mr  m21           240
TOTAL NESTE   LINE MVUES                    150       70       1is       4815      5102     54
CENIRAL LIME   REVERS
GOWOS                                         75       es       241       2U       274       29
PASSENGERS                                    7        a        148       41       579       651
PARCELS                                       82       4                   7        7n        St
TOTAL CENTRAL LIME REVENUES                  1s$       111      450       m        982      1084
EASTERN LIRE a REVENUES
cows                                           0        0         0       498      67        922
PASSENES                                      St       41       1S        81        54a     Ul
PARCELS                                       so       65       1n        147       154      1n
TOTAL EASTERN LINE RsEoEtES                   9       12S       279       941      153      1744
TOTAL OPERATING REvERSES                    2628     SW44      g892     6a9m      7615     *248
OPERATING EXPENSES
1990     1991      1992      1s9      1994     1995
WESTERN LINE
FIXED COSTSrCOODS                           654       54        584      5c4       c4        564
VARIABLE COSTSGOODS                          *8      1065      1245      1845     1442      1442
FIXED COSTS-PASSENGERS                        26      526       526       526      526       52
VARIABLE COSTS-PASSENGERS                    609      7         749       *5       692       892
FIXED COSTS-PARCELS                          102      102       102       102      102       102
VARIABLE COSTSWPARCELS                      11       181       1O        157      1S6O      16o
MANAGEMENT OVERHEAD                          518      51s       518       518      81s       518
CENTRAL LINE
FIXED COSTS.GOODS                             87       8?        87        87       87        87
VARIABLE COSTS-GOODS                          28       41        66        67       GI        69
FIXED COSTSaPASSER4ERS                       208      208       20J       20S      208       20S
VARIABLE COSTSPASSEN_ERS                     148      184       286       800      876       876
FIXED COSTSzPARCELS                           a8       so   8s             $u        8o      s8
VARIABLE COSTS-PARCELS                        27       41        *56       57       68        es
MANAGEMENT OVERHEAD                          109      109       109       109       109      109
EASTERN LINE
FIXED COSTS-GOODS                             99       99                             9 99  99  9
VARIABLE COSTS-GOODS                           0        0       208       22       266       271
FIXED COSTSuPASSENGERS                       207      20?       207       207      207       207
VARIA8LE COSTSuPASSENCERS                    187      192        04       422      427       59
FIXED COSTS-PARCELS                           41       41        41        41       41        41
VARIABLE COSTS-PARCELS                        87       40        72        64       65        97
ANAOEMENT OVERHEAD                            97       9?        97        9        67        97
OPERATING COST                              4514     4901      U72 n      om      es"4    6499
SAVINGS DUE TO STAFF REDUCTION                 0       78       17        168       198      251
NET OPERATING COST                          4514     4906      5544      5908     6188      6287
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATON                  -1661    -1364     -1652       169     1479     2006
DEPRECIATION                                 789     1069      1567      1657     1175      1757
OPERATING INCOME                           -2480   -2968    -8206       -1468     -279       249
INTEREST EXPENSE                             12i      882       416       420      798       768
REDEiLOYMENT COST                              0      800       800       150        0         0
OTHER NON OPER.INCOUE GOV.SUWSIDY           1206     160       1468       281        0         0
OTHER MON OPER. INCOME (PARTS SUISIDY)       608      606       606         0        0         0
OTMER NON OPER.INCOME (REDEPLOYMENT            0      8W        Soo       150        0         0
SUBSIDY)
_____               g m y
NET INCOME                                  -78    -1069      -1557     -1657    -1077      -659
WORKING RATIO (IN 1)                         16O      161       142        07       *1        76
OPERATING RATIO (IN S)                       186      197       182       124       104       97



-161----                                    -      -     -
ANNEX 4
to-ock-0 US                            Ion       Ion       Io99  10    so"  109      Page 10 ot 13
CAS PLOW STATEMT   1ilion C.dle                                                                 Attachment 2
INCOME BEFORE RECIAUTION                 -1   -1864    -105    l 2             1479      06
0VE84T SUaSItES                           Ila                two       m          0        0
INTERMAL CASH GENERATION                   12u                710      $70    1479    200
AMIMTZATION                                 17      a4        U4   #4           m 3      52
IiTEREST EXPENSE                           128      88       416       420      706      70
TOTAL MT SERVICE                           140      716       an       7       170    140
WORKING CAPITAL NEEDS                        8    -16        -1n0      -                 -75
WMHE  ASSETS AIND IMIUTIES                   0        0        0         0        0        0
CIINRInUTI0I TO INVEmmSTUIT               -99       74        87     -1to      265      741
INVESTMENT COST, IDA PJOJECT (TRP 2)         0    601       17266      "18        0        0
INSLTSENT COST, IDA PROJECT (TVP 1)       1148    9O5        419         0        0        0
ITALIN CREDIT                             1290     106       910         0        0        0
OTHERS                                     as.    525        406       lee
INVESTMENTS SUBtOTAL                      2794    8121    16900       8S54        0        0
CAPITALIZED INTEREST                         0       8a      206       8uo        0        0
TOTAL INVESTMT COSTS                      2794    8150    10194       8s65m       0        0
RE£IIRED FINANCING t-)                   -2815   -8065   -10157    -4045        265      741
DI_8RMENT, IDA PROJECT (TRP 2)               0    4765    16892       8162        0        0
DISSARSMENT, IDA PROJECT (TRP 1)          1066      907       896        0        0        0
DISBURSUENT, ITALIAN CREDIT               1205    1545        900        0        0        0
LIS_URSMENT, OTHERS CO-FIDUNCIERS
TOTAL LOANS                               2201    m7        17690     8152        0        0
QOVNT.CAPITAL CONTRIBUT2IN (See Not, 1)    524      869      1467.     o8         0        0
TOTAL FIACING                               S1     9086    19167      4045        0        0
0HANGE IN CASH                               0        0        0         0      265      741
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                        0.88    0.88       0.90     o.n      1.26    1.50
Note I    Amont  equlivalent to US$ O  illion likely to be provide by Italian Fod Grant are not
Included



-~ 162 -
ANNEX 4
1 uun 10 tZ . 14 1 P:gE 7:~~~~~~11 of 13
lALURE am             VII tll.. CA-e                                                               Attschment 3
fIN  ASSET                                 36M      5334      I165       17415     766     75
ACOAMMATC SWREIAM1TIN                        66      an6        am5      465      SW7       Om
NET FINS ASSET                             586    5am         75415    7?54       7o6n6"4
Wm   no  558  T ---                      188w     II5        7647      Om1      1416     1416
wM( INaue   lP                           1146      moo
cAm"                                         486      45        41        486      70       1442
ACCSS hECEIVMU  - ERMICE                      u       a"        an         at1               324
~~~~~~~~~a.                               io         p        icawu  is o   _w
DT Ffam_                                    SUW   n s          "70"  im    t           4     s
OTH   03UT ASSS                              1        in        11        146       140      16
OT1 IWOUTASUIT                                 0        0         0         0        0         0
TOTALT 03f ASST                               5        m0      am        116      -S        a3
013 ASSETS                                     °        °         °                           a
WTOTL ASSETS                               643         4      62                  74979    6074
LONG TERM  OT                               149    10146       7        8e8         45    147
O    _  MrToN, LONG TlEI  cIT                 17      8"4         4       $87       87       at
LN  TM  OT, LoN   Mm                        1m       974      1707      206    216         16
0115  LONG TEN LIAILITI                        0        0         0         0         0        0
TOTAL LONG TM23 UMILUTIS                    298      9764     201       1945    17    29
cutN  LIILn EST                              £67      177       in        19        211      12
CUEINT POTON, LONG TERI UN    T               17      864       #4        87s       879      at
OTHER CUf LIAULTIS                            16       17        19        n         1a       1
TOTAL C_WhT LIMALITIS                        200       79        n90       m         u2  J     1
TOTAL LZABILITIES                           8182       4      2171      8O4      8009 7     971
EWITY                                      613      04        560       5001    44900   8785
TOAL ESW       AOS LIITIES                 64669    75242      _7       61245    74979    7074
0E$T/PWTE1UlMRATl0                          4.U5    18.061I   81.5    87.015   89.6        48.685
CRNT-=  RATIO                              17.27     5.60      6.45      S."7    4.17       S.73



SEPUOLIC OF OHANA
$SCCO TRANSPORT *ANASILITATION PROJ9CT
AVERAGE TAR IFFO-SOS8 AND PASMENOERO
10'JeS..0     1000      100      1@01      1001     100   K-  041  10a6
Ci*JA             CIS.st"m.   11.0        14.08    15.60    16.??    11.06    10.$$    19.19
TIngeR             C941611ke    10.00    10.$0    10.14    21.00    11.0t  a; m           4.4?4
AUXtTE             C.dts/Ths.    0.0      X 11.I4 11.5?    11.10    11.61    11.1    1i.01
MANOANESE         C.dlo/Thm.   16.54    20.01    20.41    21.08    11."    It." O         1.1S
PETROLEVU          Cedls/ThI.   11.0?    11.10    17.45    11.00    10.00    10.10    10.01
CEME1NT AMe  TNERO C.dl.Jt     180.00   110.55   10.       1*10   1.01    112.*.1   1t1.1 
PAS1E1O11          Cedi/Wkm      2.02 1.0  1.    00 S."        .15$     .01  ' .44        *.00
'II
..  -
.~ ~~~~



-         - is6     -                              A3N
lHistoricl Ieco   Stat_mt. of GMuc (1983 - 1989)                  Paoe 13 crf 13
_V Mau"t ruasm              Attachment 5
WurI                                      IMS  sw   MU   two  umt  mu  am
- mwoinn
C0M                                      1O.#    *0.17      .1   8.T6  11.11  18.70  135.5
Tn_                                      1t.4t   14.0   s.        m.s    u.        un      *.m
UU17                                      4.01    7.51   17.0    4.8  1tU.11  48.11  7114
WIISM                                    11.1    86.42   53.80   U.70  181.I  16.00   14.46
PSUIW8  UoICS                             0.86    486 0 *.I        0.86    0.00   21.71   41.4
Ore                                     W0.      16.8    11.17   02.47   68I.86   72.10   01.60
3.-16  (MT)L                             5.1      1.    2_1.62  3u7.    ?#   68116.51 1,236.
M                                        4.43   MAN    1.4111  154.0  WS  M    m.31   014.61  6.15  748.10
WUUARUAPCS                               34.8   80.46   46.41   ".86  U2.46  180.53  14.3
3-TMMAL (PASIO,glc.)                     71.17   01.65  141.26  US.1   101.1u  78.6   866.17
IS.LAIMS                                  4.46    4.n    18.78   33.01   S3.50  5U.4t   86.6
TOTAL IUATDIS UYSW                      12.64  164.86  84.86  63.8  1,147.21 1,78.61 1236.
-   mu-
STAFF nLAu                              10.7   11.2   48.14  84.15 1,7.14 1,504.72 1,317.91
JIEL                                     U I.7    15.01   74.64  1.16  241.30  15.86   47.83
mAlUZA                                   10.0    25.65   10.861  21.06  $01.20  17.70  418.5
SAM                                       0.54    1.91   1."       4.84    6.20    0.00   18.30
m                                         o.u CITT  0.. 1.0  7     1.       .0    14.86   41.11
MISCJJNE3                                42.11  30.21   3.8    40.86   15.400   48.20   84.30
SB-TOTAL, snwim  IPUIS                  1i6.8      .U   68.45 1,806.8 1m.4 1,13.2  1,7."4
WUCIATtlN                                 t7.06    6.8    10.60   80.66   1.8   80.86  17.00
TTAL 86A3 1          11                   7.6   1.    706."4 183.84 1,76.8  1,U29.21 8,6.4
Ut WPUATDI P1OFWT (D1C1)                 (46.0) (186.64) (*U.80) (71O.16) (t61.18) (420.61) (601.70)
PDWSUA. AO  USULLM -A
DIAV. 0.84    O.86    0.8                                          0.41    0.41    0.41    0.60
O"1113                                    1.17    5.86   $4.864   14.0    14.08   14.08    2.00
TOTAL 0S9A1C=  AM  IIM. MYIM              2.6      6.30   6.73   14.40   14.41   14.40  21.60
PDWU MS UC               mP 
10111MIT                                  0.11   O.       6.t    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.73
9TWI6S                                   87.86    8.02   40.61  64.40   64.41   64.43   82.50
TOTAL FR CS MS UKS. 1U..                 87.67    8.83   47.80   56.6t   "4.62   64.02   18.2
MIT F1C1 1AMS sUoWIWWE (SWICII)          (8s.15)   2.86    7.17  (40.15)  (40.13) (40.18)  (7.65)
NV FWIT (UOIS)                          (86.17) (186.66) (85.86) (5.81)          (460.74) (00.16)
UIhT 8563171                             6.86   8.8o  18.74  7u.u  614.08   14.60  860.00
MIYWS PAm(                              126.57  178.16  261.74  11.6   16U.U0   1.8   1n.7



-165-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1l
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
General AssumDtions
1.        Economic returns are calculated using border prices of both cost
and benefit streams.  Import components are evaluated at ci.f. prices,
excluding taxes but including internal transport costs. Local components
are converted to border prices using a conversion factor of 0.93. An
exchange rate of 0340 = $1 is used; all prices relate to mid-1990.
Economic costs exclude price contingencies but include physical
contingencies.
Trunk Road Stabilization Proiraa
2.        The methodology presented in detail in Annex 4 of the RRMP Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5409-GH) has been followed for this analysis, as also
the application of the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM-
III) to Ghana's trunk road network. The main benefits are savings in
vehicle operating costs (VOC) brought about by improving road conditions.
Details of the economic analysis are given in Project Document No. D42189.
3.        Costs include trunk road periodic and routine maintenance costs
for 2,600 kms representing a three-year time slice (1991-93) of the GHA
1988-1997 Trunk Road Network Stabilization Program. Costs include base
costs plus physical contingencies as well as design and supervision costs
under the project.
4.        To calculate project benefits the trunk roads comprising
2,600 km have been classified according to six groups proposed to be
covered under TRP-2 by surface type (paved and gravel) and road condition
(fair, poor, and very poor). The data for the analysis have been collected
by GHA based on road condition surveys, and traffic counts. A weighted ADT
has been calculated for each road group to which has been applied the
vehicle operating cost savings for the appropriate road group to obtain the
cost savings in economic terms. Traffic growth is assumed at about three Z
annually a year after road improvements, with 5, 10 and 15 2 increases in
the first year for fair, poor and very poor roads respectively,
representing the restoration of traffic previously deterred by the poor
condition of the roads. During the last three years, actual traffic on
several roads in Ghana after road rehabilitation has shown 20-30 X
increases in the first year.
5.        The results of the analysis (ERR = 45Z) are presented in the
Attachments in some detail. As stated earlier, these results are for
typical road sections. The actual ERR may vary for some sections.
Government has agreed that only road sections with a minimum 15 x ERR will
be included under the trunk road stabilization program.



- 166-
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 18
6.        TRP-2 investments to support GHA's routine maintenance
activities cover equipment and parts and account for about 2.4 2 of total
project cost. These have been taken into consideration for the 1991-1993
period, without counting any corresponding benefits from these costs. A
separate national estimate of benefits from routine maintenance equipment
and expenditures shows an ERR of above 60X.
Bridae Rehabilitation
7.        A basic outline of the justification is contained in Chapter 6
of the study by GRA's bridge consultants (TRP-1 Project Document No.
D04735). The consultants' estimate for individual bridges exceeded ERR of
100 Z; it was conservatively reduced to 70 X in this analysis.
Northern Region Pilot Scheme
8.        Details of the assumption and analysis are given in Project
Document No. D42191 Report on a Northern Region Pilot Program - Economic
Analysis of Selected Roads by the Planning Unit, DFR (May 1990). The study
estimates only benefits from the increased rural access provided by rural
roads and IMT vehicles. These benefits consist of (i) reduced transport
costs by reducing head-porterage; (ii) reduced spoilage of crops through
quicker access to markets; and (iii) net value added from induced
additional farm products provided by better access, and cheaper and more
efficient transport. Analysis is based on data from 29 villages (out of
the 50 to be covered under the project) collected mainly through local
NGOs; benefit estimates are made based on research findings on the impact
of feeder roads on farm production and transport made recently in Ghana.
The ERR from the transport component, estimated as above, is about 25 X.
Benefits from the other small investments (total about 0.6 million) on
well-water, tree-planting, nutrition and other community support to NGOs
have not been estimated separately.
Railway Comonent
9.        The economic analysis of railway components is based on detailed
work by consultants RITES (TRP-1 Project Document No. D04733), modified by
GRC and Bank staff. Traffic assumptions and projections are explained in
Annex 2-12. Traffic assigned to the railways is based on detailed origin/
destination surveys and comparative cost analysis of expected traffic. It
is expected that with the recovery of the economy, and with the proposed
full rehabilitation of the railway system and strengthening of its
management, railway traffic will increase considerably, as it has already
done during 1984-89.
10.       Benefits due to the rail project are quantified on the basis of
alternative road transport costs that would have been incurred to carry the
traffic in the absence of rail rehabilitation. Vehicle operating costs
were estimated for each type of vehicle currently in use for carrying the
specific commodity. Road vehicle unit costs have been updated from RITES



-167-~
ANNEX S
Page 3 of 18
estimates (details in Project Files) and are somewhat less than figures
derived from a recent study of vehicle operating costs undertaken by GHA.
The lower figures have been retained as more conservative and providing
consistency with earlier project calculations.
11.       The rail costs include all investments under the railway
project, incremental railway operating costs, and additional transhipment
costs (road to rail and vice versa) where relevant. Railway costs also
include all expenditures on the Western Line under TRP-1 since the benefits
from those investments are based on increases in traffic which are included
in the traffic projections common to both projects. The costs of two new
locomotives earmarked for the Central and Eastern Lines have been excluded
from the cost/benefit calculation for this project as the project costs and
benefits relate only to the Western Line. The new locomotives are taken at
the international market price of US$1.6 m equivalent. In the case of the
CCCE package of nine locomotives, the total nominal cost is US$32.5 m, of
which US$7 m is for service contract, and the rest for locomotive supply,
showing a nominal locomotive price of US$2.8 m (with parts). This nominal
price is high, because of lack of competition under the bilateral package
offered, and because of a large built-in grant component (the effective
cost to Ghana being only about US$1.2 m per locomotive). The economic
analysis therefore uses the prevailing world price. Since the locomotive
service costs are included in the annual operating costs stream, this part
of the CCCE package (service contract) is not included as capital costs.
The rail cost stream in the economic analysis includes about US$30 m
equivalent investment in additional locomotive replacement in future
projects (1996-98).
12.       For benefit calculations, it is assumed that in the absence of
the project, and in particular the absence of the rehabilitation and
addition of locomotives, the traffic carried by the Western Line, and the
system as a whole, would not increase but would decline since the railway
will not have adequate hauling capacity. Without the project, it is
assumed that the traffic level (of about 780,000 tons) would steadily
decline and fall to about 0.5 million tons, the level reached in 1986; this
is a conservative assumption, since without locomotive replacement, the
railway cannot cope with even this much traffic. The passenger traffic has
already started declining and will continue to drop further to about 2
million passengers from the present level of about 3.0 million. Thus, the
'without project' situation will result in a serious setback to GRC, and to
its traffic capacity and customer confidence built up in the last few
years. This decline will be prevented and the traffic will increase to the
levels projected, with the proposed investments. Road transport is assumed
as an alternative means of transport for the 'increment in traffic,"
defined as the difference between the traffic levels with and without the
project. The benefit stream is calculated based on the unit cost of road
transport applied to the incremental traffic. No benefits from incremental
passenger traffic have been computed; moreover, the benefit stream is taken
up to 2004, the assumed end of project life, and a salvage value,
particularly for the 1997-99 investment, has been assumed (see attachments
for details). The ERR from the railway component is about 29 Z; this



-- 168 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 18
relatively high rate reflects the fact that the projected investments.
particularly on replacement of locomotives and other equipment, will enable
the railway to produce full benefits from considerable past investments.
Project Document No. D42335 provides more details of the economic analysis
for the railway components. A sensitivity analysis assuming a delay of one
year in availability of new locomotive capacity (from mid-92 to mid-93)
will reduce the ERR from 29Z to 25X.
Other Comnonents
13.       The ERR has not been estimated for the remaining 6.5 Z of
project costs which consist of institutional support to MRH and MTC, and
road safety improvements, sector-wide training, community support
components under the NRPS. etc. These items are amply justified based on
the many intangible benefits from them. The composite rate of return from
the project (382) is estimated after including these costs in the estimate
without counting any corresponding benefits.
Summary
14.       Table 1 summarizes the ERR and sensitivity analysis of different
project components. Tables 2 to 12 present a summary of analysis for
individual components.
AP4IN
October 1990



- 169 -
Page 5 of 18
Summary of ERR and Sensitivity                                       Table I
All Figures In Percentages
Sensitivity Analysis
ER wI    ERR wf
I of Total     Z R R        Costs      Benefits
Component         Project Costs   base Case      up 20X    less 20S
1. Trunk Road Stabilization        55.4            45            36          34
Program
2. Bridge Rehabilitation            4.7            70            57          48
Program
3. Northern Region Pilot            0.8            25             15         13
Schemes Road Works
4. Railways Western Line -         32.6            29            18          16
Follow-up
5. Components with                  6.5               Benefits not quantified
Benefits not quantified
6. Composite En on                 60.9            46            37          35
Items 1 to 3
7. Composite ERR on                93.5            41            31          28
Items 1 to 4
8. Composite ERR on               100.0            38            29          26
Items 1 to 5 -
Total Project
AF4IN
Oct 1990



- 170 -
ANNES 
Page b of 18
RIPUBLIC OF GOARA
---- --_--------                 Table 2
Second Transport Rehabilitation Project
---------------------_-----------------
Distribution of TRP-2 Roads
by Surface Type, Pavement Condition and 1994 Daily Traffic (ADT)
Pavement         Paved                  Unpaved
Condition   Surface treated             Gravel               Tot'al-
- - - - -  -- - -   -- - -         -- - - - - -            -- -
XM     JADT           NK       ADT             RM
Fair         242   1,210             178      366             420
Poor         333      400            472      277             805
Very Poor     445      293            908      137           1,353
1,020      --           1,558      --           2,578
A4P41N
Oct 1990



IIPJ3ic 0FGHcaR                        Pagel7of 18
Second Transport Rehablitation Project           Tabte 3
Forecasted Average Daily Traffic (AD?) in 1994 on TIP-2-Roads
by Vehicle Type and Pavemnat Condition
Surface Type and Pavement Conditions.
~~- ---   e     -…-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Pived                         'J1ae
Vehicle Type         Very Poor    Poor       Fair   Very Poor    Poor    F-air
ar-(191)-               56----      76-     230-       26----      53-       70-
Pcka u (191)           56          76      230         26          53       70
M. wagon (131)         S8          52       157        18          36       47
Due (181)              53          72      218         25          50       66
Light Truck (11Z)      32          44       133        15          30       40
Medium Truck (62)      17          24        72         8          16       22
Neavy Truck (141)      41          56       170        19          39       51
Total                  293         400    1.210        137         277      366
Notes AD? numbers are based on 1988 traffic counts and have been forecasted for
1994 assuming an annual growth of 3Z. In order to reflect the effect of
recaptured traffic, e.g. traffic that due to bad road conditions had dis-
appeared but will re-appear after rehabilitation and periodic maintenance
the following additional traffic growth has'been assumed for 1994:
a. 151 of 1988 traffic for very poor to good road conditions;
b. 101 of 1988 traffic for poor to good road conditions;
c * 51 of 1988 traffic for fair to good road conditions.
AF41N



REPUBLIC OF GHANA,
Second Transport Rehabilitation Project
Vehicle Operating Cost (in Economic Terms)
by Surface Type, Pavement Condition and Vehicle Type
(US cents per veh.-km as of mid-1990)
Vehicle Type
Surface Type and         ----------------------------------------------------------- -------------------
Pavement Condition        Car      Pick-up    M.-Wagon       Bus    Light Truck      Medium Truck    Heavy Truck
Paved Roads
Very Poor           30.06      35.01        45.55      63.12       82.27          126.29           184.80
Poor               25.09       27.85        40.37      59.47       74.45          213.83           170.44
Fair               20.76       21.57        34.03      55.71       64.88           98.42           152.80          -
Good               18.00       17.50        27.78      52.80       55.54           81.28           136.06
Unpaved Roads
Very Poor           41.39      50.79        56.40      72.54       98.66          151.72           214.82
Poor               33.35       39.32        48.48      65.85       86.66          132.94           193.11
Fair               25.92       28.49        40.78      60.55       75.02          117.60           172.36
Good               19.97       19.67        30.84      55.38       60.08           90.28           146.45
A74UN
Oct 1990
co
. 3ADUi
0Wt 



- t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7I
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
_________________
Second Transport Rehabilitation Project
_______--------- -- -- -- - ---- -- -
Vehicle Operating Cost Savings (in Economic Terms)
by Surface Type, Pavement Condition and Vehicle Type
(US cents per veh.-km as of mid-1990)
Vehicle Type
Surface Type and        ------------------------------------------------------------…--------------------
Pavement Condition       Car      Pick-up   M.-Wagon       Bus   Light Truck      MedLum Truck    Heavy Truck
--- --- --- -- --------- --                       --     -- --- -- -      - f-- o q
Paved Road Savings
Very Poor -> Good      12.06      17.51       17.77      10.32      26.73           43.01           48.74
Poor -> Good            7.09      10.35       12.59       6.67      18.91           30.5S           34.38
Fair -, Good            2.76       4.07        6.25       2.91       9.34            M.14           16.74
Unpaved Road Savings                                                                                                3
Very Poor -> Good      21.42      31.12       25.56      17.16      38.58           61.44           66.37           s
Poor -> Good           13.38      19.65       17.64      10.47      26.58           42.66           46.66
Pair -> Good            5.95       8.82        9.94       5.17      14.94           27.32           25.91
AF4I;
Oct 1990
Ob
.~~~~~~-  .In
.~ ~ ~~* lp
qj



REPUBLIC OF GHUNM
Second Trasport Rehabilitation Project
Notional Full Year Project Benefits (1994): Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs from Periodic Maintenance
(US$ mlilion)
Road Type       t Paved              Paved          Paved          Unpaved           Unpaved        Unpaved
Road Length Ka s      44500          333.00         242.00            908.00         472.00         178.00
ADT             t     293.00          400.00        1210.00            137.00         277.00         366.00
Vehicle Type          Pvnnt Upgradingt Very poor->Good   Poor->Good    Fair->Good    Very poor->Good  Poor-.Good    FAr-l_oo4.
Car                                           1.10            0.65          0.56               1.85           1.22          0.27
Pick-up                                       1.59            0.96          0.83               2.68           1.79           0.40
M. Vagon                                      1.10            0.80           0.87              1.52           1.09           0.30
Due                                           0.89            0.58          0.56               1.42           0.90           0.22  t
Light Truck                                   1.39            1.01          1.10               1.92           1.37           0.39
Medium Truck                                  1.19            0.89           0.96              i.63           1.16           0.39 .
Heavy Truck                                   3.25            2.34          2.51               4.31           3.14            .86 4
Total                                  10.50            7.23           7.39             15.33          10.70           2.43
A7421
Oct. 2990
~~~~~~~~~~Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 175-
AM         5
RUPURLIC or -u~x&                       Page 11 of 18
second Traenport Rehabilitation Project            Tabte 7
---------__-----_--------------________
Cost Xst utes for R.babilutatiom and Maintnanmes of Trunk Roads
-~       . ~  ~    ~ ~ - -  ~ -  U i t ~ -~  _  - - -   -             r- -Tolonoic-----
leonomie          Two Year             Cost
Cost per mm      Tim. Slice         (US$ million)
Activity                    (US$)            (TM)             (1991-1993)
Rehabilitation
______________
Regravelling                15,860             1,559             24.73
Resealing                   30,690              151               4.63
Re:urfacing                 51,150              868              44.40
2,578              73.76
Design and Superv.             1,770                                 4.56
78.32
Total Economic
Cost
Recurrent and Periodic                                        (US$ million)
Maintenance                                                (1994-2003)
- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - --                             -- -- -- -- -- -- -
Grading-Recurrent                150 (per year)          1,559      2.34
Regravelling-Per.              6,000 (every 5 years)    1l559        9.35
Patchiug-Recurr.               1,300 (per year)            868     11.28
Resealing-Periodic            13,800 (every 5 years for    151      2.08
resealed roads and
every 10 years for
Routine Maintenance                   resurfaced roads)
___________________
Unpaved Roads                425.00 (per Km and year)   1,559       6.63
Paved Roads                  680.00 (per Em and year)     868      5.90
37.59 in 10 years
3.76 per year
Ot419
OCt. 1990



REPUBLC OF GHANA
Second Transport Reabi IIttl..on Project
E.oaoec Rate ot Reborn of R.baltation and Uatnt.nasos of Trunk Rods 
QJ5 .1111io) §
Be  Co"                                  ;
S...~~. .C...
R""Puemt Cost f.or
Roatino                     Rout?as                                     Pave OMj_nl             
Ca1t.i MaInten _                  Malnt.nanc                 Total              -....       -.-.- T.t..  I      et
Year Costv U¢npevd   Oradltq R.gro. I tag Pved Pathng Reea_ lin   Coat   RoomlInI Rnuoao1irts          6bee  tl   6bi. 9itl
1991  .9 U    0.66                      0.69                      27.09                        ,                 -2o,
1998  4.86  0.66      0.04              0.S9   0.41               42.8s       1.22       0.91     4.62   1275   -20.88
1005  86.06  0.66     0.12              C.59   0.99               85.44      2.92       10.56    15.82   84.60    @06'
1994         0.6       0.28             0.59   1.88                2.81       8.77      21.5    26.6   58.916   51.17
1996         0.6"      0.28             0.59   1.88                2.61       8.16      17.9$    24.14   45.84    42.51
1996         0.66      0.28  1.51       0.59   1.88        0.68    6.15       8.02      16.64    25.40   47.68    42.46
1997         0.60      0.28  S.4t       0.59   1.88        1.21    7.49       8.49      19.78    M. T.   99.00    42.511
1916         0.06      0.28  4.86       0.59   1.88        0.06    7.25      8.67       20.77    26.07   5.51    4.26
1991         0."      0.28              0.59   1.88                2.91      8.87       19.07    25.77   40.21    45.40
2000         0.60      0.28             0.69   1.8U                2.61       8.08      17.1'7 26.2   4$.40    40.56
2001         0.66      0.28  1.51       0.59   1.88        4.88    8.70       8.71      21.08    2 2.42   URSA    44.46
2002         0.66      0.28  8.47       0.69   1.8U        6.11   12.89       4.45      25.25    84.12     .2    51.48
2008         0.66      0.28  4.86       0.59   1.88        8.59   10.76      4.60       26.49    88.61   1.91    11.36
IMRI   .44.9
$~~~~~~~~~r t  U
Noe lb. nelos full yer roec b_ntlt. forv 199 a.shwnI Table 51 haeb   plhased ln tor 192 ad1996*lfl
lo proportion to roa won,, coplte.                                                       t                             N J
AF4IN                                                                                                                        0
0.t. 190o



- 177-           -
-msiTrU.bWti1.mft.j.i                       ---*        -  -   -ANNEX 5           -    -
-  Frd~~~Tmff1#-~~~~s~~wsUas~Paige 1_f1
caA d bwo         Tsi fe tn    %it
Table 9
(DUIR.    XA.
..  '  .r_         D        D       o       43  0   190       3       9D
--~~1                      '       t            850     410  XU- 475;    13 ,,Z
as       as      10        o      40      no       no
MArI               15       25       1       20  40           00      to
C_  WibbJimr      240        7      10       15      9D0    1CS 
Total T_. '0                M8     73      89    1C05    1,-    1,5S
TEo Ns (With PromJ3      13.6   357.9   151.4   20C.7   2*.1    248.2
BY on. p9                174.?   17.0   179.2   22L.8   194         19L2
B.  IMFMC LIEL
(1M  'o                  70.0   000.0      MO.0   100.0    8D0.0   M00.0
(In 1II ton)             In.8   205.0   39.6        5.7    97.2    15.1
C.    i4ll  WWIC
10040  (Di mli Ion)       11.4    S2.9    aa    220.0   215.0   29.
RWAY'S  AWIMIE
X=V T-0 
(Come)                    13.0    230    18.0      2.0    23.0    28.0
lUl.MU. UP
W    :IC                 147.4   4V.1   80.8  142.1  I1S0M   12913L0
(lb Millen G*)
Oct S9D



BMW Trupm        lltshn "rOA 
_lei hml)ui - Ibl 1 C       _mn
A    ltwuMiv Rod TrAuM  Cess
hw Smormtul Taffle
Ai go  hid M0   m             ToI           pid                    T.6.1           u,d I/                T.ota
Laid   Tump.         Tr_b   bTd             Tr_mp.        T,4h   NW              Trump          TOuh   bid
IV bw  Code/ T_N      Y kw  Trmpit           CWdh/ Tm    _  bd TRMprb             faI# TMM   I bid Te"O"
Fveilb           W    (T4~   P0       000 Cua(1~)           (r4b   000      0       *"            (t.4fi(OM      00  Ca4  " 
Cam               156   3.4      0   21,13    600.0           3.41    s0  243    50.0              3.41    us  28,86       *A.
T1mbr             21"   J.3    a    7,10        M3.T 7.I               4'   1,1      4.            PR       U   15          W
_1.            m    4.4     I   105,1   45.1             44A4    NO  W1          4WJ           44.4    40  183    no.
_~ms.              U   44.4      S   1624A5   100             44.S     0   26,U      134           44.40    9   36,ND    264
P_ 2lm           JIS  YE         I    4.0       13.1          ax       10   3,50      1011.0       W.V              0      03
_16a              1      .41    10      U                     O.-34    20  2lo        72.4         3.41    is   0,3        SL31
Tdl                     1JD           m*         som-        mm       m, MAXXD li 11W, " ? ,O*.            in   22,t
_I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
VA.Av. LidW
SMmqfft S 1"
Cam kw bid rAd1)        41.3                                  41.10                                4008
s         Wis             18.. T40  4                           J^ 
Total Oa_S
*e                     1Lf
00
#hII TwAk aduwbadfor low s lsby read
L1 bPAa l    bos uad ae I eMl.r the aIwler  C idephi in tam OM  ab* A W-1   1.
Tom Pf toe rid ms o        d O& "him wte    p Wed by fad giwve so Til O
_i   g sf1. euaItla ipadl  lew. ,dmil  i £ rabm4id pababi



_Ind TteAPub PflI %I" Preil
_nlie .  lk.m  - bi %Iu h smI
A1t*ViIwm bad Trtmps.t eli.
ft _AmfI Twflc
113                                   2336 _1T3  65
bed           T_      b           bad                  Tebi Ts_ T_
Tcsq.        T,4b  bd             Truqi.      T1.3   bd             T_r.         1auG3   bwe
eldw  Turn.  W bea Trnspes        CedkV Taue  k bed Teuqee          Cdfj UAW.  I# AL  TruW*W
(rf4 t     4, a.  (" cr4   (an    400  CIA"                         (r"   we    P0  -,bo"0i
aem                    3.41   23   40.32   LIA           3.1 U    Ono   300.0A                           %U Km        sm
Tk*w                   WAS   30  *3    n1.9 w0 3*    n0  s,03    n. *                      W.      O   30       23.0
a_udto                 44A4   43  1K,W0   SMA            44.  go   2l,        ga1          44.    so  3M         13.
-_               .    4.44     W   3.6    12A.4          44.45   Wt   5,0   U23            44.4t   an  $,k      U2
3*v   wa   2635       M.2         3*,  10   *,0   14.5               *1   240   Am00  124.
Oe                    w34     230    ,      $1.          w.     3    e.g.   n13.1          3.4.,  Mb  4,inp   2.1
Teble                 =AD 1,23   35,3   21,230.2               lo=5 1,08,M3  SAW ULlo   sw. 1310 30  4.0*4
Us~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I. _ g. ....I.
l ba 0W               13."" 0.5                         3x1.5                             23=t1,*14
Cm* IV bad (d)         3.17                              3.73                              M.3
Tvfoa   a
laUhII.NW bad                                           2.                                103
Tb la it. "    *                                                                                                      0 .0  2",
owl" kwbid
ft 1e      |1                                                                                                              -
Tiffle               1.3                               OM1.3*                             7^03
Tl. 2330|@.l



ANNEX 5
FeCFGUB                                  Page 16 of 18
Samu Trm .r IIlt  th0la "a.                        TabLe 11
kTc tIo     t - bk l*  C     _ mmb
AItwnsblvs
Pr.Jas~~~~~~~                             bad~ft  Trmiq.Cosb
I       I *. to    mlmw  jn=10.                     Tauta  for .  wromt
- aww -  h  l t      Tr_aid          Cos       Traffic      N
Yew  1w I    1w 2    law.   COG  Oki 1)       cost       of lb I    t4tits)   Iwult
::     40.0    O0               147.4          1.2       1,405.6        in.2    (84.4)
im    iM.0  2,10b.0             427.1          4.?       8,=.6          1,6w9   (,9.6)
19    62.0  5,600.0             60.8          17VA       7,251.9        8,048  (4,135.5)
19            4,800.O          1,423.1        28.1       5,71.2         5,1       0000)
4             8,80.0o          1,60.6         2.6        5,128.4        6t    1,876.8
995                           1,608s.6        25.1       1,024.         7,085    5,205.6
19  ,60        25.1       1,34.?         7,08     5,205.6
A340.0  1,808          25.1       5,3.7          7,8      1,5.6
199                   8,40.0  1,60.6          25.1       5M.7           7,08     1,6.6
19                    8,40.0  1,608.6         25.1       6.29.7         7,       l,6.6
N000                           1,108.6        25.1       1,02.7         7,086   5,205.6
mmI                            1,608.         25.1       1,9K.7         7,085    S,0c.
2001                           1,.            25.1       1,.7           7,8      5,205.6
2008                           1,608*         25.1       1,9.7          7,08    6,205.6
204                   (4,O00.0  1,608.6       2.1        (2,17.)        7,085   9,Xr.6
U!.    29.5



rim           rg                               rOWa t)
glen    cam        ult        vs        ois:t                       am
3re     crma       rl't      Ts        Ou t#'t
3111    0r98r      Ul't      t-M        ol                         Oo't
rem    cRam        ml's       vs'       eTa.: oco.'                 am
ram    crtm        I's                  O T.': ocV                  am
glow    cam'       aa':       vsw       cia.'  wow*
soam   cRam        sa':i      vs        cu.'r                       am
ran    uiuuall us's                     ruot'         cc,
'91     a"         WS2        VW          WI          Ovw      t "atO 
,c.-w   wiOS        S'9       t-0      sOc            ccc,'         gm
fllbt-   S1        Swl        Itr       OUS           wows 0O3   an
rac-   0fl6        m'st       rWOOD #'wt   us
-ipAq  (U,'Swa                iL $t (II** 1t az   ; Al   I ai  J"A
VN D= PL t       ""'S   *MWIqw th, e "              0 
lawoubmt-a#    "01qmusq              a
qw,mj PUN                   L        -"09 O D ?"
Yme~ ~ ~~~W  *PON L*tW )            fl0"              0"     A
(mIJi cm "Willis jm
tN~~~~~~~4 ws   A" t u lq fIbt9D -
_ JO  I° AW     - WOM AUAZIDI
Vii~ .lqej
wioe xm* 
- 11S - m    mO
In p.  LL @e
S X3NNz



ANNEX 5
Page 18 of 18
sURLxC OF an"                   Table 12
Second Trasport lsbabiUtatio  Project
conomicc Analysis
Northern legion Pilot Sch eme
Bas* Case
Project   Capital    maintenance  Vehicle         Total       Total .et
Year        cst       cost          Cost         Co st        Enefits   Benefits
1991      296.7      31.5            18.S        346.7      151.8         -194.9
1992      450.1      47.4            27.7        525.2      245.4         -279.8
1993      450.1      31.6                        481.7      362.5         -119.2
1994      296.7      47.4                        344.1      362.5           18.4
1995                 31.6                         31.6      362.5          330.9
1996                 47.4                         47.4      362.5          315.1
1997                 31.6                         31.6      362.5          330.9.
1998                 47.4                         47.4      362.5          315.1.
1999                 31.6                         31.6      362.5          330.9,
2000                 47.4                         47.4      362.5          315.1-
IRK -    25.2



-13 -
AM=C 6
Page 1 of 2
RCPUBLIC OF GcAm
SECOND TRANSPORT RERABILITATION PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
Proiect Files                                                      WAIC No.
Cross teference to documents in ?UP-l Project File,
notablys
1.   Economic Appraisal of Central and Eastern
Lines and Follow-Up on Program for Western Line,
December, 1986 (Rites).                                       D04733
2.   Ghana Bridge Development Program - Feasibility Study
(Second Stage), November, 1986 (Tahal).
3.  Ghana Road Traffic Safety, December, 1986 (Ross Silcock).   D05617
4.  Diskette with Complete Financial Data and Projections,
Type of Diskette: 3M, Two Side/Double Density Soft Sector,
48 TPI. All the Program is written in Lotus 2.01.             D42173
S.  Printout of Selected Financial Data from the Financial
Program Data Diskette.                                        D42174
6.   Selected Operational Statistics (1983-1988).                  D42175
7. Statement of Government Subvention and Capital Grants
(1983-89).                                                    D42176
8.   First Rehabilitation Project, Statement of 'Forecasted
and Approximate Actual Expenditures'.                         D42177
9.   Financial Statements (1983-1986).                             D42178
10.  Unaudited Financial Results for 1988 and 1987.                D42179
11.  GRC's Debt Servicing Data.                                    D42180
12.  GRC's Revised Salary Structure as of January, 1989.           D42181
13. Historical Data on Rate Tariffs for Bauxite, Manganese,
Cocoa, Timber, Cement and Passengers, from 1983 to 1989.    D42182
14. GRC's Internal Document ona 'Special Subsidy for Payment
of End-of-Service Benefits to Retiring Staff of GRC'.         D42183



- 184 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Road Sector References
15.  Status of Trunk Road Planning and Related Activities,
October, 1989 (Anil S. Bhandari).                              D42184
16.  The Road Construction Industry in Ghmna, June, 1989
(Lavalin).                                                     D42185
17,  The Road Network Stabilization Program in Ghana,
March, 1990 (Kwesi Abbey Sam).                -                D42.a6
18.  A Pilot Project to Improve Rural Mobility and Access
Using Low Cost Roads and Non-Motorized Transport,
June, 1989 (Kwasi Adarkwa).                                    D42187
19. The Hand-Dug Well Option for Selected Communities in
The Northern Region of Ghana, June, 1990 (Amuzu/Frempong).  D42188
20.  Economic Analysis on Trunk Road Network Stabilization
Program (Mission).                                             D42189
21.  Road Selection, Engineering Aspects and Cost Estimates
for Northern Region Pilot Rural Access Road Program
(Matusiak).                                                   D42190
22. Economic Analysis on Northern Region Pilot Rural Access
Scheme (Adarkwa).                                              D42191
23.  Report on NGO Involvement in Northern Region Pilot
Scheme (Rao).                                                  D42192
24. Proposed Nutrition Component for Northern Region Pilot
Scheme (Del Rosso).                                            D42193
25. Assessment of Locomotive Requirements, August, 1990,
(GRC).                                                        D42331
26.  Project Completion Report on Railway Rehabilitation
Project, CR 1170-GH, October 23, 1990 (AF4IN).                 D42333
27.  Note on Road User Charges in Ghana (1990), August, 1990
(Bank Mission).                                                D42338
28.  Position Paper on Road Fund, July, 1990 (MRH).                 D42339
29.  Implementation Schedule, August, 1990 (MNRH).                  D42341
30.  Action Plan for City Express Services                          D44510



- -
- - @ - * - - - - *
* - s: - - z - - - * S
c
::



- 
24_ . OSf M . -' ..................... _ t I . . . . ' .. .' . . . . . . . . , , , . .. . , t , _
: - u; - - -                                                                  2 -                               -                   |                                                                    -
r wta . * a . . . - ,.
$,,_          ,  .a                                                                       ,          '                                           .                       .    .                             . _;
iE__ .,
. _
= o _ t
_ , _
.. o_ f
IW #CTION
.
.. . . .
.%
,
,/  .     .
, .
. . .. . .



PASO             S
.     NA- I 
j   . .            __                                             ' '|ewal I  '  7_
- - W - ~~~~~~~~~~/                                                             7'    , 
Awuo                   N)
~~~~~~~Edusi :Gede                           o;,  K*d,, /
An                             Akrfdu
A nkv;;k\  Kokolentenbnsf  />/Takrowus0
60~~~~~n                                                                              Sob i&
Wompa I         NKWA
*                       ~~~~~~~~Ankobra Junc?iokn  uatt  ira 
Prestea   Awudue <>HUNI VALLEY                                             a
Hun(    ipatkers                                      ACigASI J
Oponsonsawirev_   ,                            tpond0
9)  Esuaso\.      X                              <    ~SECOND
~        14* r   Adera   Sr
Ankobra    J nct  K  9    0srRetnv                 z,,
Effia                                                           SECONDSEONI
I  f  ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                ,   coat i
Effia Nkwanta  Di~ ~ ~~~~~  --a   CntntLie
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Notes.IRP I ncli
'JRP2 Wi



(MD 22009
BURKINA    FASO
I 1                                                            ~~~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~GHAN%A  1
SECOND TRANSPORT
REH-ABIUTATION PROJECT
~-EION       / Tw.                                      BRIDGE REKABILrTATION AND
0ON         -                             NORTHERN REGION
PILOT COMPONENT
RIltab Wif iii. under TRP-2
-   Rehabitoation under TFPl
t  _ *                lv z>/            A /  ~~      ~      ~     ~~~~~~'  ( Ongoing)
NORTHERN                 7 R          EuGO NR
Lat _  ; ion of Norilen Region
qe  yo \JVW  _   ~5  Y7     _    \  Primary Roads
push. \      )          - /bibwr  Molar Sewndary Roads
…   ;--Minor Secondary Roads
C6TE                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pofts
D'IVOIRE                                                              __ s~. \*\  I   )   _ /  *-    \ /5a*    RegonHeadquarters
D'VOR                                                                             0    | w         s ° j  } *    Naonol capital
,SJ   ' 8'>'   -  j *   /   .   5-      5  l i      -_ R~~~~~~~~~~~~~segion B0unebrie5
iReg\-ionol Boundaries
70/J                         AS' sE TI
R                    I
\WESTERN, 
REGION mima
-so JOi-9 10 -0 30 A0 -0 MILES
0 O 20 40 '80 KIUWMU
i  -or.meav 17 n NWMdEdX ueU#d S
SW,SWsw*4~hr SWeg.d iV T e _ WSW Ja1W9
JUNE 199°0



FRD 22Q9
BURKINA                      FASO
GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT
k.   - UPPER                     --s' :..'  *                                   \ REHABILITATION PROJECT
%,49W40N I N          /                    <REHABIUTATION OF TRUNK
N*                       WdeueI. /    *><  ,  t  ,ROADSUNDERTRP-2
(CANDIDATE ROADS)
s  ~~~~~+\  \    ~~~~~~~s  9             it        -       _       //  fl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Trunk Rods Alrady Selecr,d.f
\*_,            ~NORTHERN   -                                             --//EIO                            ReseiresrolXce
) 5zie J > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Regrovel' 
-     Reseol/Resurfoce
Pritmary Roads
Major Secondory Roads
"Peo                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mino Secondary Roads
COTE                                                                                   L                    Feeder Roads or  not shown.
D'IVOIRE                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Note. Only seleted sections of selected
*~~\Makonga               -~~~~~    prima~'Z  maor ecndary, and minor
D/IVOIRE  r. .. o                                   secondaryrod still to be chosen for
rehabilitation under the project.
80  ~~~/seu~~e   :  -    Kintampo                                             Daft ~PtomPorts
A zzo . (BR  -AHAF                                       Ra I                 -- -   Railroads
0Region Headquarters
¾             (|,/ ; * / " -  *-v   *,> | iS   S  NationalCapital
ReioBoundaries
-'               ~~~~~~Internatoioal Boundaries
....-,           1             1"
0                                                     WEST.ERN                                                                                 6
REGIO J    -                                                                 0 1,0   30 t0    !0 MIES
Tkoradi1            
'in,s md~ wO 20         f 4m0     110 WM Ub  U
Rfwo, I,wEs1,,u.  mid &W ftIIIU . MdW. desas Ot   awdo
b_eeUepmtd1_rsUuU e U.me,s                       deD d   'id
-  .                         io .,  Iet   d     bs,.sU.
JUNE 1990



IBRD2201
BURKi-NA         FASO
f     /SECOND TRANSPORT
\   UPPER  kE5T__-' REHABILTATION PROJECT
-  - -R.GION                          -REHABILITATION OF TRUNK
'K ME*ION  7l      ' ,  V            ROADS UNDERTRP- 
(ON-GOING)
'  10     t        '" j f /-e tQ                                                      10-
NORTHERNe    _           GN
KD'IVOIRE                                                            SW- Headkiy 2rt
Ifiandomnor seovadolif
| /0 ,o'WBR-AHAFONot    , d    e
0      e  REGIO                                                   -   - T    a
(0~ ~~a *l                                          | , . g , .x
-7'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
Gulf   of -  Gvieo
0  ~~~~~~  1 230 40VM
JUN  I 99



