Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18413
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2192-GH)
September 18, 1998
Transport Group 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -   cedi (C)
US$ 1  1990        326 cedis (SAR)
1991   =   367 cedis
1992       437 cedis
1993       651 cedis
1994   =   964 cedis
1995  =  1,200 cedis
1996   =  1,500 cedis
1997  =  2,200 cedis
199'    = 2,300 cedis
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          3.28 feet (ft)
I hectare (ha)       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (kin)  =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 metric ton (t) = 2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 01 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF        - African Development Fund
ADRP      -- Accra District Rehabilitation Project
BADEA    -- Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique (Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa)
CFD       -- Caisse Francaise de D6veloppement (French Development Fund)
DFR       -- Department of Feeder Roads
ERP       -- Economic Recovery Program
ERR        -- Economic Rate of Return
GHA        -- Ghana Highway Authority
GOG        -- Goverm-nent of Ghana
GRC       -- Ghana Railway Corporation
IMT          Intermediate Means of Transport
KfW        -- Kreditanstalt fuir Wiederaufbatu (German bilateral aid agency)
MRHA      -- Ministry of Roads and Highways
MTC        -- Ministry of Transport and Conmuunications
NGO        - Non Govemrment Organization
NIO        -- Netherlands Investment Organization
NRPIS    -- Northern Region Pilot Infrastructure Sclheme
ODA       -- Overseas Development Agency (U.K.)
OECF       -- Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
RTPU      -- Road Training and Production Unit
SAR        -- Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:          Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:        Peter Harrold, AFC JI
Sector Manager:          Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard, AFVT2
Task Team Leader:        Snorri Hallgrimsson, AFTT2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2192-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nos.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                            i - iii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives and Components                                    I
B. Achievement of Project Components                                   2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives                                    4
D. Major Factors affecting the Project                                  7
E. Project Sustainability                                               7
F. Bank Performance                                                     8
G. Borrower Performance                                                 8
H. Assessment of Outcome                                                8
I. Future Operation                                                     8
J. Key Lessons Learned                                                  9
PART I - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments                                   10
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits                       11
Table 3:      Project Timetable                                        12
Table 4:      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
12
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation                13
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation                     14
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project                              15
Table 8A:     Project Costs                                            16
Table 8B:     Project Financing                                        16
Table 9A:     Economic Evaluation -- Ghana Highway Authority           17
Table 9B      Economic Evaluation -- Northern Region Pilot Infra. Scheme   18
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants in the Credit Agreement        19
Table 1 1:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
21
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                             21
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions                                 22
APPENDIX
A.    Borrower contribution to the ICR
B.    Cofinanciers contribution to the ICR
Maps: IBRD 29529 and IBRD 29530
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2192-GH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Transport Rehabilitation
Project (TRP-2) in Ghana, for which Credit 2192-GH in the amount of SDR 69.0 M (US$96.0 million
equivalent) was approved on December 13, 1990, and made effective on June 18, 1991.
The original closing date was September 30, 1996. The credit was extended for 15 months and
closed on December 31, 1997. Final disbursement took place on May 14, 1998. Undisbursed funds in
the amount of approximately SDR 1.2 million will be canceled.  Cofinancing for the project was
provided by the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD, France); the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (BADEA); Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (KfW, Germany); and the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF, Japan).
This ICR was prepared by Farida Khan of the Transport Group 2, Central-Western Africa
Department, Africa Region, and reviewed by Snorri Hallgrimsson, Cluster Leader, Transport (AFTT2)
and Jer6me Chevallier, Manager, AFTS3. The Cofinanciers were invited to provide comments; those
received are included as an appendix to this report.
Preparation of this ICR is based on materials in the project files and on interviews with
Government officials and project staff. A final supervision/completion mission was conducted in
December, 1997 and supplemented by a separate mission in April, 1998 to obtain complete project data.
The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the implementation of the project
(Appendix A) and by commenting on the draft ICR. Comments were requested of the Task Managers,
who had appraised or supervised the project, and these were incorporated in this ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2192-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    When Ghana launched its Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983, with a series of sweeping
economic reforms, it was recognized that removing transport bottlenecks and improving transport
efficiency were crucial to the success of the program. Under the ERP, Ghana undertook, with support
from IDA and other donors, a program of emergency repairs and phased rehabilitation of its transport
sector, and initiated generally sound and pragmatic institutional reforms. While considerable progress
was made by the mid- 1980s, more still remained to be done to restore the transport system.
ii.    The Government of Ghana (GOG) sought IDA's support in designing and implementing the
restoration of adequate transport capacity, particularly for the road system, and the rebuilding of efficient
sector institutions. The First Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP-1), which started in 1988 marked the
beginning of a phased program for sector-wide rehabilitation and strengthening. The Second Transport
Rehabilitation Project (TRP-2) was the next phase of this program.
Project Objectives
iii.   The aim of the project was to continue to sustain and accelerate Ghana's ongoing economic
recovery by: (a) removing physical bottlenecks to the expansion of exports, farm production and labor
mobility; and facilitating private sector development through improved maintenance and rehabilitation of
the road and railway infrastructure; (b) improving the efficiency of both the public and private sector
transport management through promotion of market-oriented policies, institutional development and
manpower training; (c) promoting appropriate technology, local resource mobilization and community
participation for infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance; (d) alleviating poverty, and improving the
lot of women, in rural areas; and (e) reducing transport costs for both goods and passengers. To achieve
the above objectives, the project aimed at four major areas:
(a) road rehabilitation, which included (i) a three-year (1991-1993) time slice of the trunk road
stabilization program aimed at clearing periodic road maintenance backlogs over 1988-1997; (ii)
rehabilitation of six priority bridges as part of Ghana Highway Authority's (GHA's) ongoing bridge
rehabilitation program; (iii) design and supervision consultancies for road and bridge works, including
studies for rehabilitation of three major trunk roads and six bridges; and (iv) technical assistance and
training for management strengthening at GHA;
(b) railway rehabilitation, which included: (i) sleeper renewal and other improvements on the Western
Line; (ii) provision of essential locomotives and rolling stock mainly for replacement; (iii) strengthening
management and training; and (iv) studies on line-capacity constraints;



- 11 -
(c) support to transport sector institutions, which included: (i) strengthening of the Ministry of Roads
and Highways (MRH), and the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC); (ii) sector policy
and other studies to assist MTC in policy formulation and transport planning, and improvements in road
safety; and (iii) training programs for road transport operators and mechanics in the private sector; and
(d) a pilot operation in low-cost rural infrastructure, comprising low-cost road rehabilitation in about 50
villages, training for NGOs/villagers in road maintenance, and support for non-motorized transport,
construction of hand-dug wells and environmental improvements, with NGO and community
involvement, using appropriate labor-intensive technology.
Assessment of the Project's Success in Achieving its Objectives and Sustainability
iv.    Globally, the project achieved its objectives. There are, however, wide differences in the success
and impact of different components, as described in the following sections of this ICR. The project did
alleviate physical bottlenecks to transport in the roads sector, and placed a brake on the physical
deterioration of the western railway line; it contributed significantly to sector policy reform; it provided a
convincing demonstration that low-cost rural infrastructure provision based on local decision-making is
possible, has significant poverty alleviation impact, and has good chances of being replicable; and it
certainly did reduce or contain the cost of transport on the road and rail links that it touched. Finally, it
provided impetus to the development of the local contracting industry and consulting profession.
Economic Evaluation
v.     The overall economic rate of return (ERR) on the roads, bridges, railways and the Northern
Region Pilot Infrastructure Scheme (NRPIS) at appraisal was about 38 percent. The re-evaluation of the
ERR was done for the roads, railways and NRPIS parts of the project (the separate bridge component is
delayed until 2002 due to delays in raising financing). For the roads component, the final ERR is
estimated at 18 percent; that for the NRPIS at 22 percent, and that for the rail component at zero. The
overall re-evaluation of the completed components yields an ERR of 16 percent.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
vi.    There were few problems directly associated with the project. However, the road sub-sector has
suffered from a lack of financial discipline, which for several years has translated into large arrears to
contractors carrying out road works. The availability of counterpart funds was an issue, although less
acute for this project than for some others in the sector. Ghana suffered severe economic inflation and
currency devaluations during the project period, with resulting difficulties in project planning and
management.
vii.   Assessment of Performance of the Bank and the Borrower. Overall, the Bank's performance
in preparing and supervising this broad-based project was good. The Borrower's performance was
satisfactory.
viii.   Assessment of Outcome of the Project. Even with the disappointing outcome of the rail
component, and the deferment of some bridge works, the project's overall outcome has been satisfactory.
The project played a major role in institutional strengthening and capacity building, both in the public and
the private sectors.



Future Operation
ix.    Future operation of the project is supported by the institutional reforms undertaken under the
project. In the roads sub-sector, it is strongly assisted by the successful implantation of a road fund
financed by user tariffs; the fund now raises, on time, the revenues necessary for all routine and some
periodic maintenance of the road system. The local contracting industry and local consultants have both
the skills and the capacities to carry out road works at the volumes needed. Future operation of the
railway component will depend on whether structural reforms in the sub-sector are introduced and take
hold. The Government has officially adopted concessioning of the railway as its strategy for this sub-
sector.
x.    The Project was complemented by IDA -flnanced sub-sector projects in Feeder Roads and Urban
Transport. A Credit of US$100 million for the Highway Sector Investment Project (Cr. 2858) was
approved by the Board on May 14, 1996 and became effective January 31, 1997. Cr. 2858 is part of the
financing package of a five-year GOG investment program in the road sub-sector, the formulation of
which relied on agreements and institutional reforms that were parts of the TRP2 Project.
Key Lessons Learned
xi.    A key lesson learned from the road components of the project is that improvements in sector
management, and additional physical investments, are insufficient to improve the road infrastructure in
the absence of financial discipline at the National Government level. The need to serve the persistent
accumulation of debts to contractors diverted the use of resources that should have gone to infrastructure
maintenance.
xii.   Establishment of an autonomous road fund with a well designed structure can insure a stable flow
of funds to road maintenance, and provide one of the prerequisites for preservation of assets. However,
proper planning and disciplined implementation of the maintenance program is equally important.
xiii.  The railway components of TRP2 and also of the previous TRP 1 provide a lesson similar to the
one experienced in other countries during the project period, namely that physical investments into a
railway which is still under an antiquated management structure, are doomed to failure.
xiv.   The rural infrastructure pilot scheme would have benefited from having a project management
team drawn from concerned institutions, which were to remain responsible for the various sub-
components in the future, rather than an ad-hoc project management unit. Also, being a pilot scheme, the
supervision inputs needed from both the Bank and the implementing agency were substantially higher
than the average for IDA operations in the sector.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2192-GH)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
I.    The project complemented and reinforced IDA's ongoing assistance to Ghana in support of its
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) and continued the efforts started under TRP-1. The aim of the
project was to sustain and accelerate Ghana's ongoing economic recovery by: (a) removing physical
bottlenecks to the expansion of exports, farm production and labor mobility and facilitating private sector
development through improved maintenance and rehabilitation of the road and railway infrastructure; (b)
improving the efficiency of both the public and private sector transport management through promotion
of market-oriented policies, institutional development, and manpower training; (c) encouraging new
methods of infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance practices, using appropriate technology, local
resources, and community participation; (d) reducing transport costs; (e) alleviating poverty in rural
areas, and improving the self-development of rural women through a pilot program focused on: women's
employment and earning under a specially-designed, labor-intensive road program; related savings
schemes to channel wage-earning into income-generating activities; support of community-sponsored
activities to improve rural transport, well-water supply and environment, through involvement of local
NGOs.
2.    The objectives of the project were to be achieved through five components:
(a) Road and Bridge Maintenance and Rehabilitation (mainly through GHA)
i. a three-year (1991-93) time-slice of the road stabilization program for clearing part of the
accumulated road maintenance backlog by carrying out periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation on about 2,600 km of paved and gravel-surfaced trunk roads;
ii. rehabilitation of six bridges;
iii. consultancy services for (i) and (ii) above and for the engineering design for periodic
maintenance/rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of trunk roads, including major rehabilitation
of three primary trunk roads (344 km) and six bridges;
iv. technical assistance to support GHA in planning, quality control, and contract management;
v. local and foreign training programs;
vi. providing road maintenance equipment and spare parts, laboratory equipment and tools,
training equipment and training aids; and
vii. construction of about 40 housing units for GHA's engineers.
(b) Support to Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH)
i. training for MRH staff locally and abroad, office improvements and office equipment; and
ii. technical assistance for the Project Management Unit (PMU) and support to the local
contracting industry.
(c) Railway Rehabilitation (GRC)



- 2 -
i. improving rail capacity, mainly on the Western Line, through rebuilding and purchasing of
locomotives, wagons, and other equipment and spare parts, sleeper renewal on some sections,
and axle-load strengthening of some bridges;
ii. workshop and service management; and
iii. consultancy services for the Western Line Development Study (WLDS) and Railway Policy
Reform and Restructuring Study (RPRRS) and technical assistance and training to strengthen
GRC.
(d) Support to Transport Sector Institutions (through MTC)
i. strengthening of MTC's organization including policy studies, planning and statistics
training, and office equipment;
ii. training programs for private sector vehicle-servicing industry, including driver training; and
iii. road safety program consisting of data collection and analysis, vehicle inspection and
training.
(e) Northern Region Pilot Infrastructure Scheme (NRPIS) (mainly through the Department: of
Feeder Roads)
i. labor-intensive rehabilitation/construction of about 150 km of low-cost rural access roads and
about 50 hand-dug wells, covering about 50 villages in the poorer areas of Northern Ghana,
with community involvement, particularly of women, in building and maintaining roads and
hand-dug wells;
ii. promotion of the use of appropriate non-motorized transport vehicles in rural areas, to reduce
head-porterage by women; and
iii. technical assistance for project management, impact studies, and support to non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) involving women to improve environment, nutrition
levels and other self-development activities.
B. ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.    There were substantial differences in the degree of achievement between different components:
The components supporting the roads sector, providing investment financing and technical assistance,
were on the whole successful. Those providing support for the railway sub-sector were not.
(a) Road and Bridge Maintenance and Rehabilitation (mainly through Ghana Highway Authority)
The execution of road works under the project has been competent by the agencies involved, and
continues smoothly into the Highway Sector Investment Project, for which Credit 2858-GH became
effective earlier this year. However, the total length of road maintained and rehabilitated through the
project was only about 84 percent of that envisaged at appraisal. This is mainly caused by the effect of the
time elapsed (in some cases up to seven years) between appraisal and works execution, combined with
less than optimal maintenance, resulting in works being heavier than planned, and ultimately permitting
less of the network than foreseen to be treated. Despite these short comings, the component has been
satisfactory, and yields an acceptable, albeit reduced, economic rate of return of about 18 percent.
(b) Support to the Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH)
The support to the MRH blended into the support to Transport sector institutions with the merger of the
two Ministries concerned in early 1997. The results have been satisfactory and has provided the sector
with a number of tools to manage the road sector in an efficient manner, such as a contract management



- 3 -
system for the GHA and an accounting and management information system for the project management
unit, which is now in use for an increasing number of road works under the new Ministry of Road and
Transport (MRT).
(c) Railway Rehabilitation (Ghana Railway Corporation)
The results of the Railway component are as a whole not satisfactory. The underlying reasons go beyond
the TRP-2 project as such. In general terms, GRC has received more than US$ 250 million of donor-
financed funds during the past 15 years, mainly through IDA, OECF, KfW, CFD and others. It also
received substantial Government subsidies. However, GRC is not any closer than it was 15 years ago to
becoming an efficient and financially sustainable operation. There is a wide gap between the targets
which were set at the beginning of TRP-2 for passenger and freight traffic to be carried by GRC, and the
actual traffic figures. Throughout the project period, the volume of cargo carried by rail has remained
fairly constant at around 750,000 tons and 125 million ton-km, which is approximately 50 percent of the
target volume of freight projected during the TRP-2 appraisal. The number of passengers carried
increased initially from 1.5 million in 1983 to 3.5 million in 1988, but declined thereafter to around 2.0
million, far short of the TRP-2 appraisal target of 7.0 million for 1995. Revenues from freight and
passenger traffic are not sufficient to fully pay for GRC's operating costs, let alone to cover the
depreciation of rolling stock and fixed installations.
Yet it is important to say that it would be incorrect and unfair to attribute this situation to GRC
management alone. The GRC management team has been subject to political demands for services which
are not profitable, especially passenger services, without receiving a specific compensation for those
services from the Government. This has gravely affected the financial situation of the company. Another
important factor was the timing of individual investments which were financed by different donors.
There was a long period during which GRC had many new wagons for passengers and freight, but a
serious shortage of locomotives in good condition to pull them. The shortage of locomotives also
affected the rehabilitation of the track, as ballast could not be hauled as planned. Once new locomotives
arrived, the condition of the track had deteriorated and frequent derailments impeded an increase in
traffic. At times, the bauxite mine reduced shipments because of world market conditions. Also, GRC
did not really penetrate the cocoa freight market, because it could not apply certain marketing techniques
used by private truckers. In summary, there always seems to be at least one plausible reason why the
agreed targets for GRC cannot be achieved. There is also the recognition that in practice, multi-donor
financing of investments which are part of a system (such as a railway) is almost impossible to coordinate
in terms of timing.
The above situation has led the government to recognize the need for substantial change in Ghana's rail
sub-sector. It has become impossible for the Government to ensure for the future the survival of rail
transport in Ghana, without a major institutional change. This follows the trend which is clearly visible in
many developing and developed countries alike. The concept is to allow the private sector to take
responsibility for, and the commercial risk of, the main core operation of rail transport services, probably
through some form of concessioning. Among the objectives of the reform is to separate between those
services which are commercially viable and others which would need a Government subvention. Today,
GRC still has very substantial assets, many of them financed by foreign donors. Among them are more
than 30 locomotives in excellent condition, many freight and passenger wagons, a track in reasonable
condition (especially on the Western Line) and, above all, a captive market for the transport of certain
mining products. It is now believed, by the Government and some donors, that some form of
concessioning of rail transport services may be best suited to make sure that the existing assets are put to
good and efficient use, and rail transport may take play its legitimate role in Ghana's transport sector.



-4 -
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the combined railway investment of TRP-1 and TRP-2 had been
projected at around 29 percent during appraisal in 1990. However, due to the non-achievement of traffic
volume targets, the ERR is around zero.
(d) Support to Transport Sector Institutions (through MRT)
This institutional support has progressed very well and is being continued under the Highway Sector
Investment Project. Staff training was quite successful, but the disparity in salary levels between the
public and the private sector caused many trained staff to leave their institutions, a problem which persists
and will persist as long as the compensation package in the public sector is markedly less attractive than
that in the private sector. Institutional reform, such as the granting of autonomous status to the GHA, is
expected to lead to some redressment of this situation.
(e) Northern Region Pilot Infrastructure Scheme (N]RPIS), mainly through Department of Feeder
Roads (DFR)
The Northern Region Infrastructure Pilot Scheme (NRPIS) has produced valuable experience for future
efforts both within and without Ghana in working with rural communities through NGOs (Amasachina
and 31st December Movement.) The project also has rendered experience in the application of labor-
based work methods for road construction and maintenance, sinking of wells and tree planting. Efforts at
expanding the load capacity of bicycles through the introduction of bicycle trailers met with a number of
financial and technical challenges. While the Intermediate Means of Transport (IMT) promotional effort
encountered numerous issues related to affordability and technical design, it clearly demonstrated the
significant latent demand rural people have for low cost vehicles, in this case bicycles.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Overall assessment
4.    In overall terms, the project outcome was only partially satisfactory, although nearly all
individual components were, with some modifications, successfully completed. A tendency - conscious
or not - to increase the design standards for periodic maintenance works reduced the mileage of roads
dealt with through this and other projects, and left the remainder of the stretches originally included as
project roads vulnerable to deterioration. This effect is probably one main cause of a slight deterioration
of the overall condition of the network which has been observed and documented through two
comprehensive road condition surveys in 1995 and 1997. The other main reason for the deterioration was
inadequate funding by the Government of routine road maintenance. On the other hand, the managemnent
of the maintenance that was being done improved markedly, and on those segments where funding
permitted regular routine maintenance to be carried out, road conditions stabilized. The outline results
were:
(a) most of the physical rehabilitation targets of the project have been met;
(b) sector management has improved significantly in the highway sub-sector: a system of cost
recovery for the road network through road user charges with an autonomous road fund has
been established and has in the last year of the project contributed significantly towards the
future sustainability of road maintenance; rail sub-sector management did not make marked
progress during the project period, but in mid-1998 the Government adopted a strategy of
concessioning the GHR to the private sector.
(c) efforts at expanding the load capacity of bicycles through the introduction of bicycle trailers
met with a number of financial and technical challenges. It took much longer than
anticipated for the manufacturers to produce the trailers and for the NGOs to sell them. The



-5 -
project lacked an explicit marketing strategy. Nonetheless, while the IMT promotional effort
encountered numerous issues related to affordability and technical design, it clearly
demonstrated the significant latent demand rural people have for low cost vehicles, in this
case bicycles; the labor-based construction and maintenance methods, has been successful
and shown to be obtainable in the Northern pilot area, and could be spread over an expanded
territory in whatever follow-up project is designed;
(d) Poverty alleviation follows (c) above when pilots can go to scale; also, the GRC component
financed protective clothing for a large number of railway workers, most of which can be
considered poor; the clothing clearly improved working conditions of those workers, and
(e) Transport infrastructure rehabilitation has had measurable effects in reducing or at least
stabilizing transport unit costs on those road and rail links where the project was active; this
is true for transport costs both in terms of cash outlay and time consumption. The road
rehabilitation components have substantially improved the condition of those parts of
Ghana's trunk road network where the project was active, and are contributing to keeping
down transport costs for both goods and passenger movements.
5.     Overall the project was a mixed success. Its development impacts and their sustainability vary
between project components: (a) in the roads sub-sector, sustainability is good, due to institutional
reforms (establishment of an autonomous Road Fund, granting autonomous status to GHA, etc.) having
been identified, decided upon and being implemented; (b) in the rail sub-sector, any sustainability of the
project impact will depend on profound reforms in the sub-sector, which have now been decided upon by
the Government; (c) the NRPIS has attracted considerable attention from Government in the context of its
drive for decentralization, and sustainability appears good.
Sector Policies.
6.     Besides physical road improvements, a system of cost recovery through road user charges has
been established, thus contributing to the sustainability of road maintenance. Concerning the rail sub-
sector, the less-than-satisfactory outcome during the past 15 years, and in particular the TRP2 project
period, has confirmed the conclusion reached elsewhere in Africa and worldwide, in the sense that even
heavy investmnents in an antiquated institutional setup cannot bring about good results. In recognition of
this, Cabinet has approved a policy paper on railway restructuring, in which it is stated that the private
sector will be invited to participate in the core operations and management of the railway, in the context
of concession agreements.
Financial Objectives.
7.     Financial objectives of the project are relevant to GRC only. GRC's financial performance did
not improve during the project. The working ratio recorded in 1997 was 147 as compared to 78 which
was forecast, and set as a target, at appraisal. The financial position of GRC remained critical throughout
the project period, and the corporation continued to need substantial Government subsidies. It has become
clear that there is the need to introduce profound changes in the rail transport sub-sector, especially when
considering that massive investment in GRC during the past years has not brought about any significant
improvement in performance.
Institutional Development Objectives.
8.    The MTC and MRH (now MRT) and their agencies (DFR, GHA, and GRC) greatly benefited
from large scale comprehensive training of staff.



-6 -
Environmental Objectives.
9.    The project had no significant adverse effects on the environment, as it primarily involved
periodic maintenance operations for road and rail infrastructure operations. No new construction of
infrastructure facilities was undertaken. Positive environmental impacts of a long-term nature were
achieved due to improved traffic safety on the project roads and improved accessibility to adjacent lands.
The Northern Region Pilot Scheme improved the rural environment through tree planting along side of
roads and village wood-lots. The railway component included drainage improvements, which improved
environmental conditions by avoiding erosion and siltation.
Physical Objectives.
10.   Most of the project's physical objectives, with the exception of rehabilitation of six bridges, were
achieved:
(a) Road rehabilitation and Maintenance: Periodic maintenance and rehabilitation was done for about
2,175 km of roads, consisting of: regravelling of 1,622 km (3 percent more than estimate); resurfacing of
200 km and resealing of 353 km; Engineering design was done of three primary trunk roads (346 lkn):
Accra - Yamoransa; Tema - Aflao and Takoradi - Axim; Egineering design work was done for periodic
maintenance/rehabilitation of 4,000 km (25 percent more than estimate); and 14 housing units for GHA's
engineers were built and 16 purchased.
(b) Railway Rehabilitation: Drainage works and the strengthening of two railway bridges was
completed. In addition, 264,417 sleepers (37.6 percent more than forecast) and more than 70.000 cubic
meter of ballast (gravel) were purchased under the project and are in the process of being used for routine
and periodic maintenance of the Western Line. However, in spite of the work carried out on the track
during the project period, the Western Line and its branch cannot be considered as fully rehabilitated.
This is due to various factors: (i) the works advanced slowly and were sometimes interrupted, (ii)
delivery of ballast by the private quarry to GRC was slow at times, (iii) there was a shortage of rolling
stock used for track works (either hopper wagons, or locomotives, or both simultaneously), (iv) works
responded mainly to the need to repair bad sections of track where derailments occurred, and (v) there
was no clear distinction of normal maintenance work and track rehabilitation; both were mixed together.
Much of the ballast and also a significant part of the sleepers purchased under TRP-2 are not yet installed
on the track, but serve as a necessary stock for normal track maintenance work to be carried out during
the next two years.
(c) Northern Region Pilot Infrastructure Scheme: the feeder roads component was successful. The
project's initial planned target of 150 km 3-meter wide feeder roads was exceeded by 62 percent (total
approx. 244 km) with 45 km 3-meter wide, 163 km 5-6 meter wide and spot improvement of 45 km of
roads. The objective of engaging 70 percent women labor force on each road corridor had to be reduced
to 50 percent due to labor intensive work activities that could not be effectively handled by women. The
nutrition component obtained a short term objective of providing a balanced diet to workers on site to
enable them to do the hard work as well as increased the knowledge of the female workers on nutrition
issues. 71 hand dug wells were completed as compared to 50 envisioned at appraisal (30 percent
increase); community wood-lots have been more successful than the roadside plantings. On account of
the popularity of village wood-lots, the NGOs are now selling seedlings from their nurseries at a nominal
price to offset their overhead costs. The Non Motorized Transport sub-component of NRPIS was less
successful since the beneficiaries needed to buy both the bicycles and the cycle trailers, which many of
them could ill afford.
11.   Economic Evaluation. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated during appraisal
for the roads, bridges, railways and the NRPIS components. This yielded a weighted average ERR of



-7-
38 percent. It should be noted that for the railway component, only the Western Line Rehabilitation
sub-component was evaluated at that time. The evaluation of the overall ERR for this ICR was done
for the same components (with the exception of the bridge component which is delayed until 2002 due
to difficulties in raising cofinancing), and when weighted in the same fashion yields an ERR of 16
percent.
For specific components of TRP2, the review of economic rates of return shows the following results:
The Periodic Maintenance Program for trunk roads was in the SAR estimated to yield an ERR of about
45 percent, based on traffic and road condition data on the selected road sections. After completion of
the project, ERR for this component is rated at 18 percent.
In the case of NRPIS, the SAR estimate was based on the road component, which indicated an ERR of 25
percent. The re-evaluation of this component yields an ERR of 22 percent.
The Bridge Rehabilitation Program ERR was estimated at 70 percent. No ERR could be done as the
bridges have not yet been rehabilitated. The bridge component is delayed until 2002 due to delays in
raising financing
For the Rehabilitation of the Western Rail Line, the ERR was calculated at 29 percent at the time of
project appraisal. That rate of return was calculated for all rail-related investments of TRP2 and also
TRP1 which could be attributed to the Western Line, including for rolling stock, training and technical
assistance. An evaluation period of 15 years was selected. The ERR calculation was based on the
following assumptions: (i) only freight traffic was taken into account, (ii) the project would allow to
increase the freight traffic carried on the Western Line from 700.000 tons in 1989 to 1.265.000 tons in
1996, remaining at that level afterwards, (iii) without project, the freight traffic volume would drop from
700.000 in 1990 tons to 500.000 in 1992 and stay stable afterwards, (iv) in the case without project, the
freight which could not be transported by rail would have to be carried by road at a higher unit cost and
over longer distances. However, reality has shown that in spite of the investments made through TRPI
and TRP2, plus some other important investments which have in fact been made but were not taken into
consideration in the ERR calculation, freight traffic levels on the Western Line have not increased, but
have remained fairly stable at 750.000 tons per year until today. Compared to the "without project"
scenario of 500.000 tons per year carried by rail on the Western Line, the incremental traffic has been in
the order of 250.000 tons every year; which is roughly one third of the projected increment of 765.000
tons over the "without project" case. The SAR did indicate correctly that variations in traffic would be
critical to the economic feasibility of the planned investmnents. As a "worst case" scenario, it was
assumed that rail traffic volumes would be 20 percent lower that projected; the ERR for that case
calculated at 12 percent instead of 29 percent. Unfortunately, actual freight traffic carried was around 40
percent lower than projected, and it is estimated now that the ERR of the investments is about zero.
Evaluation of the project as a whole is reflected in Table 1 of Part II.
D.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not generally subject to Government Control.
12.   High turnover of Bank staff concerned with the project.
Factors generally subject to Government Control.



- 8 -
13.   Long delays on decisions from relevant government authorities and delays in timely release of
counterpart funds to meet the local costs of the project. High inflation resulting from high budget deficits
was partly responsible for counterpart funds shortages.
Factors generally subject to Implementing Agency Control.
14.   Lack of timely intervention and inadequate supervision initially by DFR on the pilot project
considering its complexity and the fact that it was a pilot project.
15.   Timely clearance of the delivered project inputs from the port of destination.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
16.   The sustainability of some of the project components appears solid while others are still
uncertain. The sustainability of the road rehabilitation and maintenance of its infrastructure is well
established through the road user charges and the establishment of a road fund. The MTC and MRH and
their agencies greatly benefited from large scale comprehensive training, both in and outside the country,
resulting in increased institutional capacity. Under the NRPIS, the sustainability of the feeder road
component is ensured since DFR will continue to use the labor-based construction technology to improve
roads in the area and thereby provide employment for the rural women. Even though the hand dug wells
component has been very successful, its sustainability cannot be guaranteed due to the issue of future
funding of maintenance. While the NGOs and some community members have acquired the necessary
skills for well construction and can provide some form of technology transfer to interested communities,
the cost of construction is beyond the means of most of the communities. Although currently the NGOs
are nursing seedlings for the tree planting component and selling to interested communities, the
sustainability of the project cannot be guaranteed since the overhead cost of nursing exceeds what the
seedlings are being sold for. The sustainability of the nutrition education of the NRPIS cannot be
ascertained.
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
17.   The Bank's performance is on the whole judged satisfactory. The intensity of supervision was
adequate and provided the opportunity for continued dialogue with the Borrower on the subjects of road
and port sector strategies, reforms and management. The advances in managerial tools available to the
sector, notably the establishment of contract management systems and the establishment of the
autonomous road fund, grew in part out of this process.
18.   However, in hindsight it appears that in the rail sub-sector the Bank could have done better in the
area of policy dialogue with the Government. At least since 1994 and possibly earlier, it had become
clear to the Bank that investing large sums of money into old-style railway operations, without
introducing major institutional changes, rarely improves the performance of rail transport. There was
ample evidence in Africa and elsewhere to support this recognition. The Bank has probably not done
enough to show this conclusion to the Government and to promote the type of change which is needed.
Only relatively recently (since mid-1996) has such a rail sub-sector policy dialog has developed, and
results are only now starting to show.
19.   Tumover of Bank staff assigned to the project was at times higher than desirable.



- 9 -
G.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
20.   Officials heading up the various transport agencies of the Borrower were cooperative with the
Bank, and ably performed their duties. There was little in the way of procurement problems, other than
the protracted clearance times by Government, and those that arose were promptly handled to the
satisfaction of the Bank. Government officials kept the Bank closely informed on progress, and delivered
satisfactory audit reports on the various accounts opened under the project, and on GRC. Government's
failure to promptly make counterpart funds and foreign exchange available, as it was committed to do
under the Credit Agreement, caused delays.
H.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
21.   The project's major objectives were achieved and the outcome is judged satisfactory, except for
the railway component.
I.    FUTURE OPERATION
22.   Future operation of the project is supported by the institutional reforms undertaken under the
project. In the roads sub-sector, it is strongly assisted by the successful implantation of a road fund
financed by user tariffs; the fund now raises, on time, the revenues necessary for all routine and some
periodic maintenance of the road system. The local contracting industry and local consultants have both
the skills and the capacities to carry out road works at the volumes needed in the future. Future operation
of the railway component will depend on whether structural reforms in the railway are introduced and
take hold. The Government has officially adopted concessioning of the railway as its strategy for this sub-
sector.
23.   The Project was complemented by IDA -financed sub-sector projects in Feeder Roads and Urban
Transport. A Credit of US$100 million for the Highway Sector Investment Project (Cr. 2858) was
approved by the Board on May 14, 1996 and became effective January 31, 1997. Cr. 2858 is part of the
financing package of a five-year GOG investment program in the road sub-sector, the formulation of
which relied on agreements and institutional reforms that were parts of the TRP2 Project.
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
24.   A key lesson learned from the road components of the project is that improvements in sector
management, and additional physical investments, are insufficient to improve the road infrastructure in
the absence of financial discipline at the National Government level. The need to serve the persistent
accumulation of debts to contractors diverted the use of resources that should have gone to infrastructure
maintenance.
25.   Establishment of an autonomous road fund with a well designed structure can insure a stable flow
of funds to road maintenance, and provide one of the prerequisites for preservation of assets. However,
proper planning and disciplined implementation of the maintenance program is equally important.
26.   The railway components of TRP2 and also of the previous TRP1 provide a lesson similar to the
one experienced in other countries during the project period, namely that physical investments into a
railway which is still under an antiquated management structure, are doomed to failure.



- 10-
27.   The rural infrastructure pilot scheme would have benefited from having a project management
team drawn from concerned institutions which will remain responsible for the various sub-components in
the future, rather than an ad-hoc project management unit. Also, being a pilot scheme, the supervision
inputs needed from both the Bank and the implementing agency were substantially higher than the
average for IDA operations in the sector.



- 11 -
PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial     Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macro Policies                    Q             Q              Q
Sector Policies                            
Financial Objectives              Q             Q              0               E
Institutional Development         Q                            Q               Q
Physical Objectives               Q             0              0               0
Poverty Reduction                 03            0              0               0
Gender Issues                                   E              01              0 
Other Social Objectives           Q                            Q               0
Environmental Objectives          03 0                         a               o
Public Sector Management          Q                                Q3
Private Sector Development                      Q              Q               El
B. Project Sustainability               Likely          UnlikeU ncertain
O                O                0
Highly
C. Bank Performance                  Satisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                        Q                 21               El
Preparation Assistance                 0E                                0 
Appraisal                                               E °0°
Supervision                           E                 0                E
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              Satisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                           E                 0                El
Implementation                        0                 0                0
Covenant Compliance                   El                0                0
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome        Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
0             0              E              El



- 12 -
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                           Purpose                      Year of    Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Highway Engineering Credit                 N/A                                 1970   Completed
2. First Highway Project       Rehabilitation of 345 miles of trunk roads         1974   Completed
3. Second Highway Project      Institution building of GHA and encourage          1976   Completed
development of a domestic construction industry.
4. Third Highway (Emergency    To relieve, on an emergency basis, the most        1980   Completed
Maintenance) Project         pressing constraints affecting road maintenance
trucking operations. Importation of urgently
needed spare parts, equipment, tools, tires,
bitumen and lubricants.
5. Railway Rehabilitation      To improve managerial efficiency by instituting    1981   Completed
Project                      modem methods of operations, maintenance
and financial management; and to provide
improved equipment to enable GRC to function
as viable transport enterprise.
6. Road Rehabilitation and     Strengthen road agencies, revitalize road          1985   Completed
Maintenance Project          maintenance, and upgrade transport planning
and coordination.
7. Port Rehabilitation Project  Rehabilitation of Tema and Takoradi Port          1986   Completed
facilities; and to help strengthen and reorganize
port management and port institutions in Ghana.
8. First Transport Rehabilitation    (a) removing physical bottlenecks to the expansion of  1988   Completed
Project                      exports, farm production and labor mobility through better
maintenance and further rehabilitation of the transport
infrastructure; (b) raising the efficiency of the transport
sector through (i) promotion of market-oriented policies,
(ii) increasing involvement of the private sector, (iii)
strengthening transport institutions, and (iv) improving
productivity; (c) facilitating rural transport by promoting
appropriate low-cost technology; and (d) reducing
transportation costs for both goods and passengers.
Following operations
1. National Feeder Roads       Implementing a sustainable feeder road             1992   Closing
Rehabilitation &             maintenance performance and budget system;                06/30/98
Maintenance Project          reduce rural poverty; and improve DFR's
planning, programming, budgeting and
management systems.



- 13 -
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits (Contd....)
Loan/credit title                            Purpose                        Year of    Status
approval
2. Urban Transport Project      Road rehabilitation; traffic management               1993   On-going
improvements; rehabilitation of lorry parks and
bus terninals; non-motorized transport facilities;
and institutional strengthening of central and
local government agencies.
3. Highway Sector               Reduce vehicle operating cost through main-           1996   On-going
Investment Credit            tenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction of
the highest priority sections of the road network;
developing and implementing cost recovery
policies; building and utilizing indigenous
capacity in the public and private sectors; and
improving financial management and control.
Thus supporting Govemment in reducing poverty
and improving access to social services
and markets.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                       Date Planned         latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                           Apr-22-88
Preparation                                                                          Oct-15-88
Pre-appraisal                                                    Oct-89              Oct- 10-89
Appraisal                                                        Mar-90              Apr- 18-90
Negotiations                                                                         Oct-09-90
Board presentation                                               Aug-90              Dec- 13-90
Signing                                                                              Dec-21-90
Effectiveness                                                    Mar-91              Jun-18-91
Project completion                                             Mar-31-96             Jun-30-97
Credit closing                                                  Sep-30-96            Dec-31-97
Table 4:        Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
_______________  FY91  I FY92   FY93     FY94     FY95      FY96  J FY97  [ FY98
Appraisal Estimate             | 2.88      14.40    29.76    56.64    83.52  j 96.00          0.00      0.00
Actual                            0.00      4.77     12.55    30.33    56.14    80.45    91.99    97.98
Actual as % of Estimate        I_0.0%      33.1% _j42.2%    53.5%    67.2%    83.8%    95.8%    102.1%
Date of Final Disbursement:  May 14, 1998



- 14 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation indicators in
SAR/President's Report                       Estimated               Actual
GHA
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Periodic maintenance & rehabilitation       Dec-93 (2,600 km)     Dec-97 (2,175 km)
Rehabilitation of Bridges                  Dec -93 (6 bridges) 1/   Mar-02 (6 bridges) ?
Engineering design work for periodic
maintenance/rehabilitation                    (3,000 kmn)           (4,000 km)
Major rehab. of 3 primary trunk roads 3'    Jun-92 (344 km) 2/     Dec-93 (346 km)
Training of RTPU                                150/year               50/year
Repair and/or maintenance of roads by
RTPU                                          30 km/year            25 km/year
Training of MTPU (1991/93)                        550                   330
Staff Training of Senior & Mid-level staff
International Conferences & Seminars              25                    16
Short courses                                     20                    24
Construction of housing units for GHA's          40 units              30 units
engineers                                                      (14 units constructed &
16 units bought)
MTC
MTC Studies                                         6                     6
Training
- Managers/Administration/Accountants            800                   800
- Mechanics                                      2,200                 2,200
- Drivers                                       2,000                  2,000
GRC
Railway Rehabilitation Program
1. Line Rehabilitation/Improvement
- Western Line: Improvements & Axle-Load       Dec-91                Dec-97
Strengthening
- Western Line: Sleeper Renewal                Mar-94                Sept-96
165,000 sleepers     264,417 sleepers
- Western Line: Installation of Facing Points  Dec-92                Dec-97
Locks/Mobile Workshop
- Western Line: Signaling & Communication      Jun-93                Dec-97
2. Rolling Stock
- Procurement of 9 Heavy Locos & Servicing     Dec-94                May-97
- Procurement of 3 type 1651 Locomotives       Dec-94                Dec-95
- Procurement of 14 type 1651 Locomotives                            Apr-96
- Refurbishing of 1851 Locos & Morris Crane    Jun-93            Canceled in lieu of
procurement of new
locomotives
- Overhaul of 10 type 1651 Locomotives         Dec-94                Dec-97
- Procurement of 100 Wagons                    Sept-93               Mar-96



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Contd .....)
I. Key implementation indicators in
SAR/President's Report               Estimated      J        Actual
GRC (Contd....)
- Procurement of Spare Parts, Tools & Plant     Sept-94               Dec-97
- Procurement of Cranes & Workshop Equip.       Sept-94               Dec-97
3. Studies and Technical Assistance
- Studies                                       Dec-94                Nov-96
- Technical Assistance                          Dec-94                Dec-97
- Line Positions                                Dec-94                Mar-95
- Training                                      Sept-94               Sept-97
DFR
Northern Region Pilot Scheme
1. Labor-intensive rehabilitation/construction  150 km (3m wide)   35 km (3m wide)
Revised to 120 km     94 km (56m wide)
45 km Spot Improvement
2. Hand-dug wells                                   50                    71
3. Support for non-motorized transport        125/ Revised 104            117
4. Environmental Component (Tree planting)
l/ As per Annex 3-2, Table 3.
2/ Financed by BADEA. Bids sent to BADEA for clearance.
3/ As per Annex 3-3 of the ICR
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
I. Key operating indicators in                    Estimated         Actual!
SAR/President's Report                         in SAR
A. Financial & Operational Targets for GRC
Staff at the end of Calendar year                6,050            4,972
Working Ratio                                     78                147
Accounts Receivable                              10%               15%
Mainline Locomotive Availability
(a) More than 10 years old                        65%               84%
(b) Less than 10 years old                        75%            (combined)
Mainline Locomotives Kms/day                     290              190.67
Wagon Availability
(a) More than 20 years                          65%              57.14%
(b) Less than 20 years                          85%               97%
B. Traffic Targets
Total Ton Kms (million)                          317              151.31
Total Passenger Kms (million)                    620              175.28
a As of December 31, 1997






- 17 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
|1. Urban Transport Policy and Action  To access the situation as at    Completed June 1992   Formed the basis for the
Program Study                      the time of Urban ADRP and                          Urban Project being
l                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~identify urban specific areas.         implemented. 
2. Transport and Mobility Needs of               N/A               Completed November   Used in appraisal of Urban
!Urban Poor in Accra                                                     1992           Transport Project
3. Development of Transport Terminals   To improve the availability  Completed November   Formed the basis for the
in Accra                           of terminals and how to              1992           sub-component of the
improve the efficiency of                          Urban Project under
transport                                         implementation.
4. Road User Charges Study and Axle   To provide a basis for            Completed        Contributed to setting
Load Study                         determining funding needs                          levels of tariffs for the
of the Road sector and                             Road Fund.
propose improvements to
existing system of Road User
Charges
5. Revision of Motor Vehicle Act and             N/A                  Passed through     Rationalized vehicle
other related legislation                                            Parliament       registration.
6. Accra Route Rationalization Study             N/A                      N/A                      N/A
7. Western line Development Study     To identify and evaluate         Completed         Implementation of
from an Economic and                               recommendations of the
Technical point of view how                        study needed additional
the Western Line can be                            capital input for which
improved and developed to                          funds are yet to be found.
meet traffic demands based
on best existing forecast at
the most economical prices.
8. Railway Policy Reform and          To review all regulations and    Completed         Recommendations yet to be
Restructuring Study                policy issues affecting                            implemented by the Ghana
Railways Performance. To                           Government.
identify possible areas of
private sector participation in
the operation of Railways.
9. Axle load study (GRC)              To find out the degree of        Completed         Results to be included in
overloading of vehicles and                        the new transport
to define corrective                               legislation.
measures.
10. 0 & M Studies for MRT             Study MRT and its Agency         Completed         Implementation of the
Organization Structure                             recommendations
underway.
11. Public Passenger Transport Study            N/A              Canceled in view of               N/A
planned Urban Trans.
Studies under the new
Urban Trans. Project
12. Economic Feasibility Studies on             N/A                    Completed         Used in preparing and
Selected Transport Projects                                                           appraising the Highway
Sector Investment Project.



- 18 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
SAR Estimate    Revised                  ]
Project Components                    a/         Estimate      Actual*
(US$million)
A. Road and Bridge Components (GHA)                  107.3         100.92        91.09
B. Institutional Support to MRH                        3.6          4.15          4.33
C. Railway Rehabilitation (GRC)                       63.2         112.17       111.77
D. Support to Transport Sector (MTC)                   2.9          3.38          3.52
E. Northern Region Pilot Scheme (DFR)                  2.2          2.47          2.20
Base Cost                                            179.2
Physical Contingencies                                13.0
Price Contingencies                                   20.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                   212.5        223.09        212.91
Of which taxes                             1          15.11
TOTAL PROJECT COST (Including Taxes)                 227.6
Interest during Construction (GRC Component)           2.8
Total Financing Required                             230.4        223.09        212.91
a/ From page ii of Appraisal Report.
Tax information not available as goods are cleared Tax Free.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source                   [ SAR Estimate    Revised   |  Actual  1
________________  (US$ million)
IDA                                                  96.00         99.50         97.98
Government of Ghana                                  68.40          18.06        18.06
ADF                                                  16.52             0             0
CFD*                                                 32.45         32.45         32.45
KfW*                                                  0.00          9.81          9.81
ODA                                                   6.51             0             0
OECF*                                                 0.00         54.40         54.40
BADEA                                                 8.87          8.87          .21
NIO/NET                                               1.64             0             0
TOTAL                     |       230.391        223.091      212.91
* This financing was solely for the GRC components.
Note: Some of the financing that was envisioned at the time of Appraisal did not materialize, while new
financing was acquired for the GRC components.



- 19 -
Table 9A: Economic Evaluation of Roads Component
GHANA HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
SAR Estimates                             Actual
Selected Roads under TRP-2  Estimated ADT  Costs(M cedis)   ERR   Actual ADT Costs(M cedis)  ERR
Nkwanta-Manso Nkwanta                   410            192.4     22%          502           608.6    13%
Nkwanta-Manso Nkwanta                   410            192.4     22%          502           570.5    16%
Bediako-Nkrankwanta                     275           268.0      35%          350           548.0    21%
Mankessim-Abura Dunkwa                  537            851.7     99%          753           517.1    44%
Mankessim-Abura Dunkwa                  537            850.7     99%          753           509.2    39%
Atabaadze-Elmina-Jukwa Jn.              566           733.7    134%          2270           532.4    23%
Denu-Kedzi                              686           225.0      15%          967          1,194.7    11%
Denu Kedzi                              686           225.0      15%          967          1,499.0     6%
Asamankese-Akroso                       362            190.0     52%          712           387.1    62%
Asamankese-Akroso                       362            190.0     52%          712           443.2    43%
Asamankese-Akroso                       362           205.2      52%          712           510.5    54%
Fian-Wahabu                               83           178.6     67%          110           479.0    10%
Wa-Sombo                                369           344.4      42%          452           585.2    29%
Navrongo-Naga                           143           178.6      48%          189           468.4    14%
Navrongo-Naga                            143           178.6     48%          189           293.8    18%
Navrongo-Naga                           143           142.9      48%          189           358.5    16%
Navrongo-Naga                           143           160.7      48%          189           293.8    17%
Bole-Chache                              49            178.6     15%          150           620.8    16%
Nakpanduri-Gusheigu                      75           160.7      55%          100          278.1    10%
Weighted Average ERR            _           |       12,901.21    30%1                    13,159.8[   18%
1. Post-Construction evaluation field studies was conducted in Feb. 1998, and the analysis was done using the
HDM-1II software.
2. Roughness value after construction was assumed to be 5.0m/km IRI for Regravelled roads that were
regravelled long after post-construction studies was conducted
3. Estimnated costs of regravelling/resurfacing roads Fian - Wahabu, Wa - Sanbo Navrongo - Naga, Bole -
Chache and Nakpanduri - Gusheigu were computed by finding the average costs per km of the ranges of costs
for Paved and Unpaved roads.



- 20 -
Table 9B: Economic Evaluation of Roads Rehabilitated under the
NORTHERN REGION PILOT INFRASTRUCTURE SCHEME
Cost          Benefit       |
Year   cedis      A          B        A + B    A+B-Cost Net Benefit   Disc.   Disc. Cost
million                                                        Benefit
1 1,633.249     0.000      0.000     0.000  -1,633.249  -1,484.772   0.000  1,484.772
2    59.477     4.751     261.547   266.298    206.821    170.926   220.081    49.155
3    59.477     4.751     394.274   399.025    339.548    255.107   299.793    44.686
4    59.477     4.751     543.550   548.301    488.824    333.873   374.497    40.624
5    59.477     4.751     556.118   560.869    501.392    311.325   348.256    36.931
6    59.477     4.751     568.699   573.450    513.973    290.124   323.698    33.574
7   656.767     4.751     582.153   586.904    -69.863    -35.851   301.175   337.026
8    59.477     4.751    595.623   600.374    540.897    252.332   280.079    27.747
9    59.477     4.751    609.086   613.837    554.360    235.103   260.327    25.224
10    59.477     4.751    622.545   627.296    567.819    218.919   241.850    22.931
11    59.477     4.751    640.188   644.939    585.462    205.201   226.047    20.846
12    59.477     4.751    654.406   659.157    599.680    191.077   210.028    18.951
13   656.767     4.751    656.291   661.042      4.275      1.238   191.480   190.242
14    59.477     4.751    657.001   661.752    602.275    158.598   174.260    15.662
15    59.477     4.751    628.439   633.190    573.713    137.342   151.581    14.239
22%   1,240.542 3,603.152 2,362.610
Economic Rate of Return =       22%
Net Present Value cedis million = 1,240.54
Benefit/Cost Ration =       1.525074
NOTES:
"A" are benefits from transport cost savings.
"B" are benefits from increased agricultural output.
Rehabilitation costs were obtained from records of DFR - Tamale Office as at July, 1998
plus maintenance costs assessed at cedis 500,000 per km. Per year and recurrent
costs at about cedis 4,100,000 per km. In year 7 and 13 for regravelling.
Benefits are calculated on per household basis using the major agricultural outputs.
Benefits for years two, three and four are based on field surveys and benefits
for subsequent years are projected at about 5% per annum based on overall macro economics conditions.



- 21 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement                              Fulfillment
Text      Covenant                     Date                   Description of Covenant                Comment
Reference     Class     Status   Original    Revised
Section 3.04     12        C      Continuous             Maintain the Road Fund at least at its 1989    Road levy increased from
(a)                                                      funding level in real terms              Cedi 18 to Cedi 60 per
litre in February 1996.
Section 3.04     11        C      1991                   The Borrower shall allocate a minimum of    Complied
(b)                               1992                   $36m. equivalent in 1991, $38m. equivalent
1993                  in 1992 and $39m. equivalent in 1993 from
Road Fund and the Capital Budget for
periodic maintenance and minor works
program of MRH.
Section 3.04     11        C                             The Borrower shall allocate a minimum of    Complied
(c)                                                      $6.5m. annually from the recurrent budget
for 1991-93 for routine road maintenance,
materials and plant operating cost excluding
wages.
Section 3.04     11        CP    Continuous              The Borrower shall promptly pay into the  Although releases have
(d)                                                      accounts established by GHA and DFR for    been unpredictable, the
road maintenance works on the basis of   amounts have been
quarterly estimates of road maintenance  adequate.
needs: (i) accruals to Road Fund monthly in
advance and (ii) Budget allocation for road
maintenance.
Section 3.04    03         CP                            The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds   Some funds re used for
(e)                                                      of Road Fund shall be utilized exclusively    rehabilitation works.
for the payment to contractors and MMU for
Road Maintenance.
Section 3.05     02        C      06/30/92               The Borrower shall furnish to the
(a)                                                      Association the findings of Road User
Charges Study.
Section 3.05    02         CP                            The Borrower shall increase thereafter the  Road user charges have
(b)                                                      said charges in accordance with timetable  been increased (see 3.04
acceptable to the Association so that full cost  (a)) though not in
recovery from road users for road        accordance with the study
maintenance will be achieved by 1994.    recommendations.
Section 3.08     11        C      Annual                 The Borrower shall continue to hold with the   Annual review carried out
(a)                                                      Association annual joint reviews of its 3-year  October 16, 1996.
Public Investment Program and annual
Public Expenditure in the transport sector.
Section 3.08     11        CP                            The Borrower shall consult with the      A number of projects were
(b)                                                      Association before undertaking any new   implemented in 1994 and
investment projects in the transport sector  1995 without prior
costing more than $5m. equivalent and not    discussion, but awarded in
included in the PIP.                     1996.
Section 4.01    01         C      Annual                 The Borrower shall have records and      Complied
(b)(i)                                                   accounts for Part A of the Project including
those for special accounts for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Association.



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (Contd....)
Agreement                      |      Fulfillment
Text      Covenant           j        Date                   Description of Covenant                Comment
Reference     Class     Status   Original    Revised
Section 4.01    01         C     Annual                 The Borrower shall have records and      Complied
(b)(i)                                                  accounts for Part A of the Project including
those for special accounts for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.01    01         C     Annual                 The Borrower shall furnish to the        Complied
(b)(ii)                                                 Association, no later than six months after
the end of each year, certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors of such
scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested.
Schedule 3      10         C                            All procurement through ICB will be      Complied
Part A, para.                                           exempted from pre-shipment price inspection
3                                                       by any third party inspection firm.
Schedule        10        CD      12/31/93     07/94    The Mid-Term Review shall be carried    Complied with delay.
4-2                                                      out by the Borrower, the Association and
all entities to evaluate the overall
progress of the Project and to modify
Project Implementation Procedures.
Schedule 4      12         C      06/30/91              GHA shall furnish to the Association a    Manpower reduced
Para. 4                                                 plan for reducing the direct labor       from 5,117 in 1993 to
operations in routine maintenance and   some 4,000 at the end
for the reduction of its own work-force    of 1995. Further
including targets for manpower          reductions planned.
reduction up to 1994 and implement
such plan thereafter.
Schedule 4      11         C                            GHA shall adopt economic criteria        Complied.
Para. 5                                                 acceptable to the Association (including
a minimum 15% ERR) in selection of
road sections to be included in the trunk
road maintenance program.
C       = Complied with
CP      = Complied with Partially
CD      = Compliance after Delay



- 23 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1 OD 10.60
Accounting, Financial Reporting,  The audit reports were submitted with minor
and Auditing                     delays.
2  OD 12.20                         Received with minor delays.
Special Accounts
3  OP 12.30                         Received with minor delays.
Statement of Expenditure
Table 12:   Bank Resources:   Staff Inputs
Stage of               Actual
project cycle       Weeks        US$
Through Appraisal              56.1     145.2
Appraisal -- Board            106.1     261.0
Board -- effectiveness         19.4      47.1
Supervision                   125.6     321.1
Completion *                    9.1      16.7
OTAL                         316.3      791.1



- 24 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of Project Cycle    Month/  Number Days in   Specialized staff  Implementa  Develop      Types of
Year       of    Field  skills Represented a/ tion Status    ment    problemis
Persons                                        Objectives
Through Appraisal        Oct-88       1       5    SEC
Mar-89      3        5    SEC, Cons.
JUD-89      3       12   SEC, SFA, Cons.
Oct-89      5        9    SEC, SFA, RE,OA,
Cons
Appraisal through        Apr-90       8       12   SEC,SFA,TS,HE,RE
Board approval                                     TrS, OA, Cons.
Nov-90      9        6   SEC,SFA, TS, HE,
RE
Board approval           Feb-91       3       6    TS, HE, RE
through effectiveness
Supervision I            July-91      4       4    TS, PTS, HE, RE         I           I
ARPP            Aug-91      N/A                                    I          I
Supervision 2            Oct-91       I            TS                     N/A        N/A    Partial Spn
Supervision 3            Dec-91       1       4   PTS                     N/A        N/A    Partial Spn
Supervision 4            May-92       1       3   PTS                     N/A        N/A    Partial Spn
Supervision 5            July-92      5       5   DC, PTS, TS, HE,         1           I
Cons.
ARPP             Sept-92    N/A                                    2           1
Supervision 6            Dec-92       2       3     STS, HE                2           1     no spn found
Supervision 7            Feb-93       1       4    RE                     N/A        N/A    Partial Spn'
Supervision 8            June-93      4       14    STS, 2 CONS, RE        2           2     AF
ARPP             Aug-93     N/A                                    2           1     AF
Supervision 9            Nov-93       2       12    STS, RE                2           1     AF
Supervision 10           Mar-94       2       5    STS, CONS               2           1     AF
Supervision 11           July-94      4       18    STS, RE, ME,           S           S
CONS
ARPP            Aug-94      N/A   _                                S          S
Supervision 12           Oct-94       2       5    STE, ME,                                   Partial Spn
Supervision 13           Mar-95       2             STE, ME                S           S
ARPP            June-95     N/A
Supervision 14           Mar-96       4       12    SIE, EC, IE,HE         S           S
Supervision 15           Sept-96      8       9    SIE,TEC,EC,IE,FA,       S           S
SRS,_PE,_SPS
Supervision 16           Feb-97       4       5    PE, TEC, IE            N/A               I Partial Spn
Supervision 17           June-97      4       5    PE, STEC, IE, PO        S           S
a/ Key to Specialization
SEC = Senior Economist             SFA = Senior Financial Analyst      RE = Railway Engineer
HE = Highway Engineer              OA = Operations Assistant           Cons.= Consultant
PTS = Prinicpal Transport Specialist    TS = Transport Specialist      STS = Senior Transport Specialist
ME = Mechnical Engineer            TrS = Training Specialist           EC = Economist
IE = Infrastructure Engineer       TEC = Transport Economist           FA = Financial Analyst
SIE = Senior Infrastructure Engineer    SPS = Senior Ports Specialist  PO = Project Officer
SRS = Senior Railway Specialist    DC = Division Chief                 STEC= Senior Transport Economist
b/ Key to Status
I = Problem Free                   2 = Moderate problems               3 = Major Problems
HS = Highly Satisfactory           S = Satisfactory                    U = Unsatisfactory
c/ Key to Problems
AF = Availability of Funds



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2192-Gi)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
APPENDIX A



GHANA HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
COMMENTS AND OBSERVATIONS ON PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT (TRP2)
1.0  INTRODUCTION
As part of measures to (i) clear the backlog of ( 'ferred road maintenance and (ii)
improve and stablise the trunk road condition mix at 70% Good, 20% Fair and not
more than 10% Poor by the year 2005, the GHA launched in 1988 the Trunk Road
Network Stablization Programme.
The World Bank extended a Credit amounting to US$96 million under the Second
Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP2) to support the Road Network
Stabilization Programme.
The Road and Bridges Maintenance and Rehabilitation component of the project
was aimed at achieving the following:
(i)    a three-year (1991-93) time-slice of the road stabilization program for
clearing part of the accumulated road maitnenance backlog by carrying out
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation on about 2,600 km of paved and
gravel-surfaced trunk roads;
(ii)  rehabilitation of six bridges;
(iii)  consultancy services for (i) and (ii) above and for the engineering design
for periodic maintenance/rehabilitaion of about 3,000 km of trunk roads,
including major rehabilitation of three primary trunk roads (344 km) and
six bridges;
(iv)  technical assistance to support GHA in planning, quality control, and
contract management;
(v)   local and foreign training programs;
(vi)  providing road maintenance equipment and spare parts, laboratory
equipment and tools; training equipment and training aids; and
(vii)  construction of about 40 housing units for GHA's engineers.
This report discusses some observations made on the implementation of the project.
2.0   OBSERVATIONS AND RECOMENDATIONS
2.1   Project Preparation



It was observed that the 10-month period allowed for the Engineering studies and
deisgn of the periodic maintenance works was not adequate. That resulted in the
revision of the scope of works and the issuing of Variation Orders during the latter
stages of the project implementation.
It is, therefore, recommended that a 12 to 15-month period should be allowed for
detailed engineering studies and design of major periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation works. The designs should cater for improvements in road drainage
and geometric deficiencies.
2.2   Procurement Delays
The World Bank's guidelines for procurement were followed in the procurement
of all Works and Services contracts. There were, however, some delays in the
award of contracts for some of the Civil works, especially the ICB Lots 1 and 2
contracts. It took about 15 months from the time of bid submission to get the
contracts for the ICB works signed.
It is therefore, recommended that the Bank's and GOG's processes of contract
award be streamlined to get contracts awarded say within 4 months of bid
submission. This would reduce the cost of implementation as project roads
deteriorate quickly with the passage of time.
2.3   Project Execution
Under-estimation of work quantities and ordering of additional work during
project execution resulted in increased completion costs and prolonged duration of
works.
GHA has put in place measures that will ensure that Engineers and Supervisors
monitor work quantities closely in order to minimise changes in the scope of
works. Contracts would be administered within acceptable limits of variations,
say up to a maximum of 15% in future.
2.4   Release of Funds
There were delays in the release of the GOG portion of funds for the payment of
work done. The delay in the release of funds did not adversely affect the physical
progress of the ICB contracts, but the Client had to pay interest on delayed
payments at a rate of between 30% to 36% per annum. In the LCB contracts the
untimely release of GOG funds had an adverse effect on the progress of works.
It is recommended that funds should be released periodically (say monthly) and
promptly and all outstanding payments to contractors must be cleared.
2.5   Performance Security



Some Local Contractors had difficulty in obtaining performance securities for
their contracts. That resulted in the delay in the signing of the Contract
Agreement and consequently the completion of works.
It is recommended a discussion to resolve this problem be held at the Ministerial
level.
2.6   Training of Road Maintenance Staff
The Road Training and Production Unit (RTPU) could not run successfully all of
its training programmes for Road Maintenance Supervisors and Plant Operators
due to lack of adequate funding and logistics. The actual average number of
people training in a year was 50 as against the estimated 150 persons per year.
The production aspect of the Unit was ot encouraging due to the lack of resources.
The RTPU has, therefore, been merged with the MMU. Training of GHA staff
and local contractors in new road maintenance techniques and practices would
now take place at the MMUs.
2.7   Rehabilitation of Bridges
This component is being financed by BADEA. The component has not been
completed. Bidding documents for the bridge works are being reviewed by the
consultants after receiving comments on them from BADEA are unduly delayed.
It appears there is no specific person in charge of the project in BADEA.
2.8   Major Rehabilitation of Three Primary Trunk Roads
Under the project three sections of National Route 1 (Aflao-Elubo) were studied
by different consultants from Feasibility to Detailed Engineering. The sections
were:
(i) Tema-Aflao           166 km
(ii) Accra-Yamoransa     117 km
(iii) Takoradi-Axim Jct.  63 km
A novel feature of the design studies was the presentation of the studies at Public
Hearings. At these hearings the views of the general public on the designs were
solicited and considered before the designs were concluded.
The studies conducted for the road sections have tremendous!y facilitated
soliciting funds for their rehabilitation. Based on the results of the studies the
OECF of Japan has agreed to the Government of Ghana's request for financing
the Accra-Yamoransa Road. Similarly KfW of Germany has agreed in principle
to finance an 86 km section of the Tema-Axim Road.



An overriding advantage of this component is that the studies have allowed
projects for rehabilitating the roads to be adequately prepared and discussions
with prospective donors have been based on actual details of the roads.
It is recommended that this principle of using detailed studies of roads for
soliciting funds should be pursued to enable defensible projects to be promoted.
2.9   Housing Project
The cost of the housing project was under estimated in the SAR. In all 40 housing
units were anticipated but only 14 units were built.
The implementation of the project delayed due to the problem associated with
Land acquisition.
More of these housing units needs to be acquired either through direct acquisition
from Estate Developers or Construction by contract. The anticipated benefits to
be derived from this are as follows:
Accommodation in Accra and the other Regional capitals is a major problem. In
order for the Authority to attract and retain technical staff in particular there has
been the urgent need to acquire its own housing units.
The acquisition of the 14 housing units under the project has therefore eased the
pressure on management in this regard. There is, however the need to increase the
authorities stock of housing units to place it in a good stead in attracting and
retaining staff.
2.10  Technical Assistance
This comprised Planning, Quality Control and Contract management components.
Out of the Planning and the Quality Control components has evolved the
Pavement Maintenance Management System (PMMS). Project planning can now
be done on a more rational basis.
2.11  Training Programmes
Under the Second Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP2) a comprehensive
training programme was designed to meet the continuous need to upgrade the
skills and to enhance good quality works of GHA staff in certain key areas. The
programme covered post graduate courses, (i.e. Higher Level Training) short
courses/professional attachments to industry, conferences/seminars and in-country
training.
The achievements of the programme are as follows:



*  11 officers participated in various Higher Level Training Programmes e.g.
MSc International Highway Engineering, MSc Foundation Engineering, MSc
Transport Planning and Engineering, MSc Finance, MSc Bridge Engineering,
Msc Geographical Information Systems etc.
* 20 officers were sponsored to various short courses aimed at upgrading their
skills e.g. Investment Appraisal and Management, Transport Investment
Planning and Management, Maintenance/Management of Building and
Estates, Navallis Shottel Propulsion System etc.
*  10 officers benefited from various conferences and seminars some of which
are: IRF Executive Conference on Road Maintenance, 3rd IRF Conference on
Management pavements etc.
*  4 in-country training courses were run for 101 people. Some of the courses
include group training in quality control in Road Maintenance and group
trianing in contract management and administration etc.
The Road Training and Production Unit (RTPU) and the Mechanical Training
Production Unit (MTPU) which were created under the 4th Highway Project
also benefited from Consultancy Services under the Project.
The main bottleneck which hampered the full implementation of the planned
training programmes over the period was the clearance from the government to
enable officers selected for the courses to participate in their respective
programmes.
3.0   CONCLUSION
On the whole, the project was a good one and to a large extent achieved the
objective of iproving the road network to lower transport cost.
The impact of the project on the network would have been more effective if the
resources made available from the credit were concentrated more on paved roads
improvement. The project would have made more impact (on the population) if
more work were done on paved roads rather than on unpaved (gravel) roads.
Maintenance of unpaved roads which last for shorter periods may preferably be
financed from Government resources.
Ordinarily, donor support should be focussed on paved roads for prolonged
impact.
The use of Treasury Credit Notes (TCN) to cover duties and taxes on equipment
and materials procured by agencies under the project delayed the clearing of the
items. This led to delays in project implementation and disbursement.



Counterpart funds from the Government were not adequate and timely. This state
of affairs delayed project progress.
Time allowed for works contracts preparation, including design has been observed
to be generally inadequate. This did not allow adequate designs to be done and
the scope of works properly assessed. This situation led to "surprises" during
construction causing the issuing of variation orders.
It appeared the Bank was too rigid when it came to reallocation of funds even
among categories under the same agency. It would have enhanced the
achievement of the Project's objectives if especially towards the end of the
project, the Bank were less rigid with regard to reallocation among categories of
the credit.



DEPARTMENT OF FEEDER ROADS
COMMENTS AND OBSERVATIONS ON PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION OF
THE NORTHERN REGION PILOT INFRASTRUCTURE SCHEME
A.   BACKGROUND
The Norther Region Pilot Infrastructure Scheme (NRPIS) is an integrated scheme aimed
at improving the lot of poor rural women through increased earnings, savings, reduced
head porterage and increased community self-help activities. It was designed as an
integrated approach to poverty alleviation with six main components which are as follows:
*  Provision of low cost access roads
*  Provision of potable water through the construction of hand dug wells
*  The introduction of non motorized transport (NMT)
*  Provision of food supplement and nutrition education
* Enhancement of environmental quality through tree planting
* Strengthening of Non Governmental Organizations
The varied but complementary objectives of the different components were aimed at
providing sustainable development within the beneficiary communities. This report
discusses some of the findings and observastions made during the implementation of the
project. It also reviews the performance of the various components and the potentials of
their sustainabi8lity after the project completion.
B.   FINDINGS AND OBSERVATIONS
i.    Project Management by the Department of Feeder Roads
The major limitation to the project was the lack of an effective management and
coordination mechanism. The unique and complex nature of the scheme which embraced
different disciplines made it difficult for the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) a purely
roads agency to manage.
The day to day activities of the project were managed by the regional directorate of the
department who not only lacked expert knowledge on the other components of the project
but also had other departmental responsibilities to attend to.
Therefore there were serious limitations with the management of the project especially at
the initial stages. There were no implementation plans and strategies, monitoring
procedures etc. to guide the activities of the various components.
A project management team comprising of experts from concerned institutions like the
Forestry Department, Rural Water Supply Unit, the Nutrition Department should have
been formed at the onset of the project to manage it.



An attempt to rectify this situation was made by the formation of a project management
unit comprising of the UN volunteers who worked on the project, representatives of the
DFR and the NGOs and this went a long way to improve the project management.
ii.   Involvement of Other Related Agencies
The project was designed in isolation without any provision for the involvement of other
related agencies and this had serious implications on the actual implementation of the
project especially with components like tree planting etc. where some form of expertise
were required.
Also with the exception of the roads component, the other components could not be
intergrated into the normal activities of the related agencies at the project completion since
they were not involved in the implementation.
C.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Even though components like the roads development and construction of hand dug wells
were very successful, the sustainability of all the components after the project completion
cannot be guaranteed. The performance of each component and the potentials of its
sustainability are discussed as follows:
1.    Feeder Road Component
The initial design standard of 3m had to be reviewed to 6m since the completed roads
proved to be dangerous for the level of traffic which utilized the roads.
The objective of engaging 70% women labour force on each road corridor had to be
reviewed to 50% since some of the labour intensive work activities could not be
effectively handled by the women.
The sustainability of this component is ensured since the Department of Feeder Roads will
continue to use the labour based road construction technology to improve roads in the
area and thereby provide employment for the rural women.
Also the maintenance system in operation whereby personnel who have acquired
knowledge in the labour-based road construction methods are engaged from comunities to
undertake routine/recurrent maintenance activities on completed roads would ensure some
level of continuity in the provision of employment for some members of the community
including women.
2.    Hand Dug Wells
The inital plan of rehabilitating existing wells within the communities had to be abandoned
since it was realised that some of them were poorly constructed and posed a threat to
human lives.



Also the estimated cost of each well increased since the original plan of constructing non
lined wells was reviewed to stone lined wells which are considered to be more durable and
hygienic.
Even though this component has been very successful its sustainability cannot be
automatically guaranteed due to the issue of funding. Whilst the NGO and some
community members have acquired the necessary skills for well construction and can
provide some form of technology transfer to interested communities, the cost of
construction is beyond the means of most of the communities.
A proposals for the communities to contribute 40% labour, 10% cash donations with a
50% cash supplement from the District Assemblies common fund is yet to be accepted.
3.    Non Motorised Transport
This compoment has not been very successful due to the issue of affordability. It was
designed with the wrong assumption that the beneficiaries already owned bicycles.
Interested people had to purchase both bicycles and cycle trailers which they could not
afford.
The problem was worsened by the delay of the manufacturers in delivering the items
which resulted in price increases as a result of inflationary effects. Marketing strategies
developed to solve the problem like selling to communities were not effective due to the
issue of ownership and responsibility for maintenance.
4.    Tree Planting
There were initial problems with the implementation of the component due to the lack of
involvement of technical expertise from the forestry department. Also the rigid stand by
the project design to pay for only surviving trees frustrated the efforts of the NGOs.
Again the transplanting of trees along the road corridors posed a problem due to adverse
climatic conditions.
These problems were reversed by the involvement of forestry personnel and the adoption
of woodlots by the NGOs. Even though currently the NGOs are nursing seedlings and
selling to interested communities, the sustainability of the project cannot be guaranteed
since the overhead cost of nursing exceeds what they are being sold for.
5.    Nutrition
The major problems with this component were the non involvement of the Regional
Nutrition Department and the non residence of the nutrition consultant in the project area.
Due to these constraints, solutions to arising problems were delayed which also affected
the successful implementation of the component to some extent.
This component obtained a short term objective of providing a balanced diet to workers
on site to enable them to do the hard work as well as increased the knowledge of the



female workers on nutrition issues. However, the component was not able to achieve a
lasting impact on the nutrition related attitudes and practices of the beneficiary women.
The project design requiring the NGOs to continue with the nutrition education cannot be
ascertained, since it is not clear whether they benefited enough from the project to be able
to do this.
6.    Support to NGOs
Even though some level of management training was provided for the NGOs, their
performance still fell short of what they were required to do. This is because four (4) out
of the eight (8) personnel sent for training in India were re-assigned other responsibilities
outside the project. Therefore the full benefit of the training could not be utilized.
One major limitation was the lack of proper accountability for monies provided for other
developmental projects outside the project. The benefits of the funds provided could not
be assessed and the sustainability of these development projects cannot be guaranteed.
D.   CONCLUSIONS
Even though the project was innovative it was rather complex. It required a lot of
concerted effort of all the components and an effective coordination of all the efforts.
Much as some progress were made at optimising the separate inputs of each of the
components, the management of all activities to complement each other towards the
achievement of an overall goal of improving the lot of women could not be totally
achieved.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(TRP-I1 Credit2192-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Railway Rehabilitation
Project in Ghana, for which Credit 2192-GH in the amount of USS 14.0 million was
approved on December 21, 1990. The disbursement of GRC component of the credit
became effective on August 10, 1992 after GRC had fulfilled the World Bank's
condition of procurement of new locomotives. The Credit closed on December 31,
1997. GRC disbursed 96.26% of its allocation at the close of the Credit and the last
disbursement was in March 1998.
The Railway component of the Transport Rehabilitation Project-ll (TRP-11) was
.UIIItidrI;tu oy %rru wln a ioan OT U;5;e.4* miliion, KtW With a loan of
US$9.81million and OECF with a loan of US$58.50 million.
Preparation of this PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, supervision
reports, correspondence with the Bank, and views of staff involved in the project
supervision.



PROJECT COMPLE I ION RFPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(TRP-11 Credit 2102-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
BACKGROUND
1.   Ghana Railway Corporation's infrastructure faced virtual collapse during liwt
early 1 900s due to prolonged past neglect of maintenance and rehabilitation-
Tl,is re;sulted in high operatlonal costs and serious bottlenecks in the rail
transport system. When Ghana launched its Economic Recovery program
(ERP) in 1983, with a serles ot sweeping economic reforms, it was clearly
rnanonln7od thAt rpmmvinQ tran-pr%mi hAtten.eeke and irnptvvirig transport
efficiency were crucial to obtaitiing an adequate supply response from the Ll'p
process. Thus. under tho ERP, 1;hana undertook, with considerable support
trom InA and other donors, a program of emergency repalrs and phased
rehabilitation of Its transport scotor, and initiated generally sound and
pragmatic institutional reforms through the implemenitalion of the First Rallway
Rehabilitation Project (CredIt 1170*GH) and Tranaport Rehabilitation Project-I
(Credit 1858-GH) . -1 hese measures produced encouraging results and
helped avert furil,er dulurioration of the systcm. While considerable proaress
has been made, thero is still much more to be done to restore the rail transport
system.
:cansequently, the Government of Glhana sought IDA's support In dosigning
riid imriplementing the Second Transport Rchabilitation Project (TRP-11) -Credit
2192-CH
OBJECTIVES
2.   The Project had two main objectives: (i) to complement and reinforce IDA's
ongoing assistance to Ghana in support of its ERP; (ii) to continuc the efforts
starled under TRP-I to enable GRC to function as an efficient and viable
transport enterprise, in particular to move export traffic to Ghanalan ports.



COMPONENTS OF THE PROJECT
S.   The main components of the project are:
i)   improving rail capacity, mainly on the Western Line through
rehabilitation and purcharing of locomotives, wagons and other
equjipment and apare parts, sleeper renewals on some sections and
axle load strengthening ol some bridges;
li)   workshop and se3iie management,
iw)   consultancy services for the Western Line Development Sludy and
Railway Policy Reform and Restructuring Study and Technical
Assistanee and Truining to stretngthen GRC.
1 he project was divided into specific activities and programs as listed below:
Tmek Rohabllitntlon
Through sleeper renewal in 108 km of track on the Westem lIno
by the replAcement of 105,000 wooden sleepers which was revised to
26,417 wooden sleepers.
-    lPuw wrnwit or 45,400 cubic nibotrs of ballast.
-    Strengthening of three bridges.
l-nprevoment of drainag woerke t eight naikay Otataons.
*     iPurchase of track tools and equipment.
lmpMgment to Siganlling System
Provision of faclng point looks.
*    Procurement of two mobile workshops (rall cars) and one mobile
workshop ( road truck).
Tools and mcasuring dovicos for tho mobile workshops.
Procuremcnt of 210km of undorground coblos.
Locomotives/Rolling Stock an4..W.qArj.hK
-    Procurement of 9 heavy duty locomotives and Seivicirng.



- rocAirement of 3 lypv 1651 class of Jooomotivos.
Procurement of 14 type 1051 cass of luommoUvs.
-    Procurement of 100 wagons.
Ovothaul of 10 typo 16b I ealas of locomornWs.
-    Piucurement of sparc parts, tools and plants.
-    Procuuiieint of two eleocul overhoad travelling cranes and
workshop equipment.
StudLig
-    Westem Line Devolopment Study.
-    RIailway Policy Reform and Restructuring Study.
Technical Assistance
Prnvision of Techirical Assistance.
I raininn
In-house training.
-    External training.
-    Logistical suppon and training equipment for the Railway Central
I raining Institute.



4.   The cofinanciers of TRP-I1 provided lie following:
KfW - three mixed duty mainline locomotives at the coslort USs 9.81 million.
GEPQ.- liM kOMA.,UA MIM.,au     ,&9wM    IRA  m;llinn
workshop equipment, ont 80-ton breakdown crane and provision of
consultancy services for tho modernization of our workshop at a total
cost of US$ 50.50 million. The workshop moderiizaliuon project included
the supply of workshop equipment for the maintonance ot locomotives
and wagons.
5.   All tho componnentR of the. prnjant wAtA rtnmpleIed by the elose of (fie Crodit
except thle overhliaul of foui out of (he ten 1851 class of locomotives.
1 he delay in the completion of the four locomotives beyond DucYrnber 31,
1997 was due to the inability of MWS EMD to ship the second batch ot thirty
traction motors sent to them for refurbishment before the closirig date of the
credit lius reuiduritg tlhe cost of repairs Ineligibic for the Bank's financing.
0.   All the main items were procured through International Competitive Bidding.
This onsurod competitive prices and quality.
All the procurement were done in oonformity with World Rank's procurement
guidelines.
The major problem encountered in this area was the clearaince of iimported
items from tile potts due to Government's failure to promptly make counterpart
funds avallablo.
.RESULTS
7.   Piujuct Stall-up was delayed almost two ycers because of a condition of
disbursomcnl of IDA funds for the Railway component under the projuct
namely tlie sigriiing of cofinancing agreements: (a) for at Icast soven new
malnilno locomotives: and (b) for the rebuilding of at least eighlt existliig
lonomotives, or purchase of four new mainlirie locomotives ot 1651 class as
replacement.
S.   All tie tiuairn rvimporients of the project woro completed by December 31, 1997
cxccpt the rehabilietiUon of four 1651 class locomotives which, though were
stibstaritially wrvipleted by the end of 1997 could not be complcted due to the
Inability of M/s EMD of USA to ship 30 traclion motors sent for refuibishhrent
by December 31, 1997, and our inability to gel funds to pay so for.



9.   The Project made a significant contrlbutlon towards Institutlon building. and lo
the robuilding of QlC generally with good potenfial Mer the #'&*'Jr* to &ouppor thio
couuisty's vur;utimy. Tluo Railway Ceritral Training Inslilute was substantially
cquipped with oloctronic laboratory equipment and leaching aids. TachnicAl
assisiidice were provided to GRC's managemierit. Two sludies narTely:
Wcstcrn Llnc Developrnent Study and Railway Policy Reform and
, _.   Dechwwau&' yJnqs.0.. .4... c 4~11~Q~, ...r...e.J.~an.,.j sat.e, .Lt..a, at... Ce It* *.S* ~.. * ~ ~. n.e p
Lygori to iriiprove aftw 1993 afte tlie Mriival of 9 hoavy duty mainline
locomotivcs from France, by which time the Project had taken effect, end
Opel;iowlal iiiip,oveiilerils IeU w more Iraaiic Deing carriea ana revenues
carned.
§USTAINABILITY
11.  Ay. a resull vt 1ie pQjeu:t, the railway aystieryi has substantially new fleet of
mainline locomotives and vans and is set on a steady course towards
imiprovenment .
12.  Although the results were not according to original expectalions, reasonably
strong managerial and infrastructural foundation wore laid which will enable
GRC tno move towards self reliance, financial viability and play an active role in
expanding the country's export earnings. However, the achievement of thcse
perfnrmantse is like.ly th be affected by the available overage mineral wagons
bwing uwed to haul bauxite and mangan,r.
PE,RFORMANCE OF IDA, THE CONSULTANTS. GRC AND THE GOVERNMENT
13.   I he freqtjenl stipervision of the project by the Bank's Mission hlelped tu
trniove most of the constraints that affected the project, cspoclally the
procurement of additional spare parts, that was not foreseen durin tUse inilial
assessment of the spare parts requirement for the 1651 class rehabilitation by
the manufacturer of the locomotives and also procurement of additional
underground cables and wooden sleepers for (lie irriprovernent of Signal and
Telecommunications systems and Track on the W¢storn Line.
14.  Techriical assistance and training played a vItal role during implementation of
the Project and made an ansential contribution to its success.
15.  GRC management was most receptive to the efforts to improve pertormance.
GRO made all reasonable efforts to cormiplete tits Prvjact on time, and the
Governments' understanding of the problem of GRC was helptul. However,
CGovernment's failure to promptly make cournterpart funds arid foreign exchange
available, as it was committed to do under the Credit Agroomcnt seriously
affcctcd thc project especially the cleArance of items from the ports.



OVERALL A$SESSMEN
16.  The project's major objectives wore achieved and the outcome is judged
satisfactory.
FINDIN]S AND LNSONf;
17.  The most uscfUl lesson from this Prrt-t is thal iinruir the right condhiion, i 11
poasible to tum around a largv govemment-owned entity on a steady couise
towards improvement. These condtionas include: (i) receptivity un the part of
government; (ii) willingness and determination of the management and staff of
the GRC tu overcome the problems confronting us; (iii) the engagement of a
compotont and well coordinated consulting bearn and the training of employees;
and (iv) close supervision on the part of tho Bank, and a willingness to adjust
the project scopc to meet unforeseen condiltios which arose during
implementation. The Project demonstrated how much can be accomplisihed in
a cooperative environment.
18   It was unforlunalv that funding could not be made available for the payment of
the 30 traction motors sent to the USA for refurbishment duc to the inability of
the repairer to ship the motor6 before Docomber 31, 1997, and our irn;bility to
get funds to pay for the refurbished traction inotors to date. Due to
c.nvemment's inability to riake avallable counterpart fund, twenty Iwo piews of
workshop equipment ordered under the OECF componeni of TRP-11 and some
some parts ordered uLidei the IDA comnponent of TRP-I1 are still at the ports
awaiting c1,arance. This has greatly affected the achieverient of the overall
project objectives.



Table I: Key Indicators for Project ImplementatIon
1. Koy Implementatlon Indicator In   Estimated        Aelual
&AR/President's Report
G.R.C.
Railway Rehabilitation Program
1. Line Rchabilitation/improvement
Westerl1 Litii; IrTiprovement &   Dec-91         UEC - 97
Axle-Load
Sftengthening                     Mar-94         SEPT-98
- Western Llne: Sleeper Renewal    165,000         264,417
sleepers       sleepers
- Westerm Line: Installation of     Dec-92        DIEC-97
Facing Points
I ocks)Mobile wurkshop            Jun-93         L)ttC-97
- Western Line: Slgnaling &
Communication                         Dec-94         MAY-97
2. Rrlling Stock                      Der-94         DEC-95
- Procurement of 9 I leavy Locos      .           APRIL 6
& Servicing                           Jun-93       Cancelled in
* Procurcmcnt ot 3 type 1651                        lieu of
I ocomotives                                       procurement
- Procuremcnt of 14 type 16b1       Dec-94         of new
Lncomotives                           Sep 93       locomotives
- RefurbIshing of 1851 Locos &     Sapt-94         DEC-97
Morris Crane                         Sept-94       MARCH-96
DEC-97
Dec-94         DEC-87
- Overhaul of 10 type 1651          Dec-94
Ljcocriotives                         Dec-94         NOV-96
- IProer4rement of 100 Wagons      Sept-94         DEC-97
- Procurement of Spare Parts,                    MARCH-95
Tools & rlant                                       SEPT-97
- Procuieiiernt of Cranes &
Work:sop Equip.
3. StJrA 's and Teclilical Assistance
- 1 co. 'caI Assistance
. Lirtie I *sitions
Trainin__



Table 2:   Studi. Induded In Prugjct
1.  iWoystecrn    DRefelopment                         DONE       d   tt
R11udy noudou
Input w^ Whc
be beste
2. Railway Poicy Reform aovd                           DONE        Rw"neuote-
Rcstructuring Study                                               ns yet to bo
Tablo 3: Project Colis e t.R.C Conmponent
Source                  BAR LUimate    koviwed        Actual
______ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____(US$mllll.n)
IDA                                         14.00         14.00        14.00
Government of Ghania                         3.18          3.16         1.38
ADF                                         18.52          0.00         0.00
CCCGJF D                                    32.45         32.45        32.4b
KIW                                          °.o °          81         9.81
ODA                                          6.61          0.00         0.00
O.CF                                         O.UO         Ssa.s5n      56.60
BADEA                                       O.m            0.00        0.00
NIO/NET                                      1.64          0.00        0.00
TOTAL                       74.30         117 94      116.14



Table 4. Key Indicators for Projoct Operations
1. Key operating indicators in           Estimated       Actual '
SAR/President's Report                 In SAR
A. Flnancial & Operafronal Ter-ets for
G.lR.O'
4.'f at tie ed of Calendar year        6,050          4,972
W,orking Ratio                          70%           147%
Accounts Receivables                    10%           15%
Malnline Locomotive Availability
(a) More than 10 years old             65%            84%
(b) Less than 10 years old             75%         (Combined)
Mainline Locomotives Kmstday           290            190
Wagor AvailabilIty
(a) More than 20 years                 66%          57.14%
(b) Less thai, 20 years                85%             0/%
B. Traffic Targets
Total Ton Kms (million)                 317          151.31
Total PAssenger Km1s (,raillion)       (i20          175.28
A.S OF DECEMBER 31, 1097
*I         .                                  '                                  ' ''***END* t*



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2192-GH)
COFINANCIER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
APPENDIX B



4C74143JPMZA4 PAXX ItJT x2v)
I-1-1. (Ohioninchi. (NiiycadkuktA. 'Inkyo. 100. JAPAN  'TI I .3.-2 Il-I398 Fax.+8l-;I-;§2l "-ir:V:
Date: June 1, 1998
AFTT2, Transport 2
Africa Region,
The World Bank
Attention: Mrs. Farida Khan
Re: Comments on your draft "Implementation Completion Report" for
Ghana's "Second Transport Sector Project" (TRP2 Cr. 2192-GH)
Dear Mrs. Khan,
It is our great pleasure to comment on the above report. We acknowledge
the importance of the impleInentation completion report, and are pleased to
know that relevant donors are asked for comments to improve the report.
We would like to point out that The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) of Japan has been progressively involved with the development
assistance in the transport sector in Ghana. Although we did not co-finance
the Transport Sector Project II (TRP2), we have been financing various
projects that are closely linked with TRP2 as shown in Annex. Furthermore,
we are one of the co-financing partners in the Highway Sector Investment
Program, including institutional strengthening through consulting services.
Donor Coordination:
Because of our strong commitment to the Ghana transport sector
development that is designed closely in line with the your various projects,
we would like to believe ourselves as a close partners of the World Bank, and
1.



hence, consider that coordination with the World Bank is highly important in
every aspect of project implementation.
In this light, it is regrettable to say that there is hardly any reference on donor
coordination, not to mention OECF, save for "money contribution' in Table
8B. Table 8B shows clearly that other donors' contributions comprise more
than the share of IDA commitment in the TRP2, The lack of reference and
analysis of donor coordination, whether positive or negative, may induce
other donors, including OECF, to reconsider actual benefit of co-financing
with the World Bank. It may be an idea if the report shows the importance
of donor coordination, and as its result, it suggests for better donor
coordination in future projects.
Railway Portion:
Our second comment is with regard to the evaluation on the railway project.
We are afraid that whether the railway portion is fairly and sufficiently
evaluated in this Report subject to a question. Yet, there is no doubt, and
we principally agree with you, that the railway portion has not been
successful to such an extent to what was originally expected.
What we are concerned is that the considerably lower level of economic rate
of returns (ERR) calculated for the actual road and bridge maintenance and
rehabilitation presented in Table 9B vis-d-vis those derived in the Staff
Appraisal Report shows that it is not only the railway portion that has not
produced what was expected (We would also like to point out that an analysis
and explanation for the differences in the ERR presented in Table 9B would
improve the report).
Also, we would like to emphasize that the evaluation of the financial
performance of the GRC seems to be partly based on the comparison with the
successful implementation of the Road Fund. However, it seems only fair to
compare the fimancial performance of the GRC with that of, for example, GCIA,
DUR, and DFR.
Furthermore, we would like to point out that the western railway line has
been considerably affected by the substitution effect by the rehabilitation of
the Route 17 (Ariwiankwanta-Yamoransa), which was financed by OECF and
2



completed in 1993 (L/A GH-P3 signed on September 16, 1987). Road
transportation is gradually increasing for Cocoa beans in recent years. The
issue is then about whether the SAR effectively and sufficiently recognized
the potential road rehabilitation that became a substitute for railway, rather
than the issue of the performance achieved vis-d-vis SAR. If so, the question
is about readdressing our first comments regarding World Bank's
commitment to donor coordination.
In addition, although we acknowledge that improvement is required in the
railway sector, we are not too sure that it is most appropriate, without a
sound and concrete evaluation, to go as far as to conclude that 'very
profound changes" are needed and that is through aconcessioning of the
railway operations to the private sector". The limited success in the railway
portion does not necessarily mean that 'very profound changes" and
"concessioning" are required, and nobody knows for certain that the
proposed "concession' is feasible, not to mention successful. The report
does not touch the issue but we believe that the weak financial performance
of the railway sector might be partly but significantly attributed to the lack of
priority given to the railway sector reform and development in Ghana. The
report seems to give an impression that it is entirely the GRC's lack of
management capacity. In this regard, we wish that GRC's comments on the
Report would have been attached in this report to acknowledge various views
of the main stakeholders.
Road and Bridge Maintenance and Rehabilitation:
As pointed out above, we believe that there has been a significant
improvement in the road sector. The Road Fund is operational and is
planmed to cover more than 70 percent of the maintenance cost in 1998.
However, this portion does not seem to have met the level that was expected
at the time of appraisal in terms of Economic Rate of Return(ERR) shown in
Table 9B. Every actual ERR derived for selected roads under TRP2 indicates
substantially lower level of ERR (averaged at 15%) than what was expected in
the SAR. An analysis and explanation for the differences and the evaluation
in terms of ERR could be useful in this report.
3



Moreover, the report seems to lack of evaluation on the Project in the light of
the highway sector development in Ghana. It is difficult to see how much
the contribution of TRP2 in the highway sector development in the report,
though presumably significant.   Evaluation in the light of sector
development may enable the report to address the issue raised by GHA on
the strategy to concentrate on the unpaved (gravel) road rather than paved
roads.
Counterpart Fund:
We fully agree with the report on the substantial importance of the fiscal
discipline at the national level. Any project that requires counterpart
funding is significantly affected by the fiscal situation, In this regard, as the
World Bank has strongly committed to support the structural adjustment
through varous schemes in Ghana, it would have been more desirable to
coordinate this project (and not to mention other projects) with some
adjustment lending program and evaluate such coordination in the report.
Rural infrastructure project,
We have recently observed a dramatic increase of bicycle use on Route 6
between Tamale and Paga, where we have almost completed rehabilitation.
With the newly rehabilitated flat and smooth road, people seem to take
advantage of it and benefit from the use of bicycle to extend their farm land
along the highway. This positive impact was not clearly identified in our
appraisal, and no financing was, therefore, prepared for providing bicycles to
the local communities. This unexpected but welcome phenomenon seems
to suggest that the provision of facilities that exclusively benefit each
individual should be left to each individual to come up with self-help efforts,
and the donor assistance should primarily focus on the provision of faciliies
that are inexclusive by nature. It is no doubt that targeting the poor is
important as in the case of NRPIS, however, the approach in which the locally
produced bicycle trailers were to programmed to be purchased by each
individual may have had difficulties in its idea in the first place.
4



ANNEX
OECF Projects in the Transport Sector in Ghana
______(as of May. 1998)
PROJECT NAME                    i Amount,  Signing      Current
PROJECT NAME  ~   ~      ( i rnl, Date          Status
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT                           5,912  19851025 Completed
ROAD REHABILITATION PROJECT                           11091  19870916 Completed
KUMASI-PAGA ROAD REHABILITAJON RROJECT                 8,439  19901220 On-Going (98%)
PROCUREMENT OF LOCOMOTIVES, ROLLING STOCK    6,203  19940318 On-Gorig (98%)
AND WORKSHOP EQUIPMENT
HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT                      2,544  19960321 On-Going ( 5%)
HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT (II)                10,287  19960330 On-Going ( 0%)
ACHIMOTA-ANYINAM ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT              9,651    -    Pledged in March
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   119 9 8
Total (Commitment Level)               54,127
5



G H A N A                                                  MAURITANIA
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                              M A
[CREDIT 2192-GH]                                                                   N.GER
GHANA HIGHWAY AUTHORITY COMPONENT                                          r       .              RBURKINA FASO
PERIODIC MAINTENANCE OF ROADS                                                                 ------
GUINEA>                          NtN
-       COMPLETED PROJECTS    .  PORTS                     -- -  REGION ROUNDARIES             G      N         - E
PRIMARY ROADS             NATIONAL CAPITAL                 INTERNATIONAL90UNDARIES    Lr-        CT    ! )
SECONDARY ROADS       ®  REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS                                       /OTE   / S A )O                      F
- -   TERTIARY ROADS         9 DISTRICT AND SUB-DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS                              \,          , Acrn
RAILROADS              O  OTHER SELECTED TOWNS
Gulf of Gu,a-
l          ~BU RK I NA            F A S,°   l o5         m°r°g   !
2t.~ ~~~~~~~~~~9
('7HNo-rel       REIf     N      -- r      l    w      e Y Po a             - zecil                           EN  
0 II'-, J O                    BURKINA\                               ori K, PASO   K<ulGgugo           -1 K                           10g
\,,~~~~~Kj ,,    .r- -~                           ~                 ?wr -t              - Js:EK
~   oiccii  ~lltA~mev  0Pian  SHeBo Pag           Dii
Hi ' Ne                  $ne            tGRg       D
*rhpd     tSobc,  -      \j     UPPEk        Tnt '              nd iK
U~-\ IPPER'WE-ST           \<F-nbip3.,-                  Ibgo      >
RU~1ON                 V( C'_ WaI~le abmo.BE                                                         
f,\~~FlmPs~ /                                              &ht                                    BNI
N,,
--                               Nasga      \       ~~~~~~~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~Wenclaik  -N.
Do                              - ', a'e epn/ a'
..:~~-  ,;nc                             /                        '?
---W° nclTao4ei,.IfofGu           / o  Nenv  a~  ,0Ykoeprcalif    >
iw       -           A:           a                            9%a   Sn-elo
a0                                                                        o
Lombango      N          RN  ,            REGION   
aoe_ Dom.naq                                             e        o       yl
COTE   '                -                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nakpcsyifj#z.'r
D'IVOIRE                                                       ,004Kn,6                                          T G
Teseli~ ~ ~~5/
B~a        '-                        -     ~      Mo:        Wna  aoK              R       >       T G
A nanlnnlcra   J0 a~~~~~.. Anai b     bs
~~~~~~~~1 ~ ~  ~           ~          ~          ~          S
7-                                                         od.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  nkawroF   Icii
reb~ ~~~~ k                               "Slean  ~Tj Es
~~1A2~~  Baaddj  alley                 Able~~90         oRNaa,
Adam
At'~~~~~~~3                                                                mILMEER
3'                                      1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  e   p
K-kmueo,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



G H A N A
SECOND TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                                              This mop wos produced by the
[CREDIT 21 92-GH]                                                                  o          T      --                                  Mop Design Unit of The World Bank.
[CREDIT  21 92GH]                                             -~~~~~~~~~~ 0%.1'.   -    Z0:7The boundaries, colors, denominations
NORTHERN REGION PILOT INFRASTRUCTURE SCHEME    -                                                                                                                     s andp onothe inmorpm,tions
DEPARTMENT OF FEEDER ROADS COMPONENTS -0 -                                                 1  Namboglaa             iare                                       The World Bank Group, any judgment
iKpolum  \                    °                                                    on the legalstatus of any territory, or
#poiu    I    \        Dipah           Gushie                                      any endorsement or acceptance of
£                       " -                          ng Tamale                                 such boundaries.
-               ~~~~Sankpem  -    I
t                                -  -                                                                ELUZ i'>S  S  UL    Larigu        %    Zoggo
/  Satani1OO  t tYIliani            NTON
-    TQLO~~~~~ ----- Z-----                                                  NyrlrnkSaadu
f li               >t ,KOMBUN(GU  G umburin                                                                                                a ntonkurugu    IN44
-   ~~~~--<9Gbulung                                       Khim
-                ,,-B o>Go~                     -             Korhim   \_. 03ag palgu           Botinblai                 /Tampio                     i
p                                 DISTRICT   Cheshegui             Noo   maOSouo
Cheshegu    ,                                 Kpoliga                                  n, lgnill  r  uni  KpZion                Nonton    Kpunduli 
,/ 0                     Tonin"I    Soco                                                      ft%tkplq
*'    Y'oggo 0         Fihiri  l \    hpi                  ,-   Kukpehi           -       Demaieu
Obalo                                                                                                        nayinlli
t   Gbanjon O        I                Gizza    QGjseu                                  \    4Kni              Tnali                             Nyomandu             s 
ao,ihegu            -                                                                                                  4
I FromDebobyo                                                             - Bukpomo                ,\  fGboliah
I Tali                      Tlo                              yoShisheu lo 
44                tGburimani           Dingon9                   44                                                           TAMALE               DISTRICT
~ _  _  ~    ~    ~   ~  \  Gawagu                       s        Kunyeivil      /        ' 
- - - -- - -  ~Gowogu
\          Tu~~~~nayilli                   /1\
.  >  ^          |                     ^sv                    | x            _ _   \                    _                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lcbarig3a,
MAURITANIA                                                                                                                                                                                 co/o,iga 
M  A L. I
"J             ,  NIGER                                                                                                                                      'lo
GUINEA l,     Ji IBURKINAFASO
GU]NEA$.,  Ad                  r-      - BNNi                                     -        COMPLETED PROJECTS             0      REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS                                    _  _
.1Are    O of                  z                                 -        PRIMARY ROADS                  0      OTHER SELECTED TOWNS
COTE       )                                                               SECONDARY ROADS              -  -    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
/ I  R        'A I VD IVOIRE  GHANA                                              --- TERTIARY ROADS
, Accrao                                                        COMPLETED HAND DUG WELLS                                   0                   15                 30                7
_ 0                                                                            LOCATED HAND DUG WELLS                                                    KILOMETERS                It
'0                                                                                                                                                                                                              CIO



