                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2192 GH




Development Credit Agreement
     (Second Transport Rehabilitation Project)


                     between


                REPUBLIC OF GHANA


                        and


       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




       Dated                        a I , 1990
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2192 GH

                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated kCQk&Q-       0t  , 1990, between REPUBLIC
OF GHANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).

      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;

       (B)  Part E of the Project will be carried out by Ghana
Railway Corporation (GRC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to GRC
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and

      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and GRC:

     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:

      (a)   "GRC" means the Ghana Railway Corporation established
and operating under the Ghana Railway Corporation Decree, 1977, as
amended from time to time;

      (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and GRC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
                                    - 2 -


      (c)    "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and GRC pursuant to Section 3.01
(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;

      (d)     "GHA" means the Ghana Highway Authority;

       (e)    "MRH" means     the   Borrower's   Ministry   of    Roads   and
Highways;

      (f)   "MTC"     means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and
Communications;

      (g)     "DUR" means the Department of Urban Roads in MRH;

      (h)     "DFR" means the Department of Feeder Roads in MRH;

      (i)   "Road Fund" means the fund established under the Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project;

      (j)     "PMU"   means   the Project Management   Unit      established
within MRH;

      (k)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred            to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and

      (1)   "Project   Preparation Advance"    means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 14, 1989 and July 6,
1989 between the Borrower and the Association.

                                ARTICLE II

                                The Credit

      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred -to in the
Development Credit Agreement,    an amount in various currencies
equivalent   to   sixty-nine   million   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 69,000,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
                               - 3 -


Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.

        (b)  The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars three
special deposit accounts in a commercial bank on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment: (i) Special
Account PMU for the purposes of Parts A, B and D of the Project;
(ii) Special Account GRC for the purpose of Part E of the Project;
and (iii)   Special Account MTC for the purposes of Part C of the
Project. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.

       (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1996 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.

      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.

      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.

      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.

      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.

       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 2001 and ending October 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15,
2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.

       (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii)    the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all   of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
 such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
 above-mentioned repayment modification.
                               -5-


      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b)    above,  the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.

      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.

                            ARTICLE   'II

                     Execution of the Project

      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A through D of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and transporta-
tion practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.

      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause GRC to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of GRC therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable GRC to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance. The funds to be provided
to GRC pursuant to this paragraph shall include: (i) funds cover-
ing GRC's share of required counterpart funds for capital expendi-
tures for each quarter of the year to be paid by the Borrower to
GRC before the end of each quarter; (ii) operational subsidies;
(iii) a subvention for freight and passenger traffic where, and to
the extent, GRC cannot charge, due to public policy decisions,
adequate tariffs based on full rail costs; and (iv) an annual amount
of not less than $1,500,000 equivalent in 1991 and 1992 for the
purchase of spare parts, such amounts to be made available quarterly
in advance, subject to GRC providing proof of spending and/or
commitment in the following six months.
                                      - 6 -


         (c)     Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A through D of
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

         (d)     The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the
Credit     an   amount not exceeding SDR 10,100,000 to GRC under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and GRC, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association which shall  include interest at the rate of 8%
per annum, repayment of over 20 years, including seven years of
grace, and the foreign exchange risk to be borne by GRC.

         (e)     The   Borrower   shall   exercise   its   rights   under    the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall  otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend,       abrogate   or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part
E of the Project shall be carried out by GRC pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.

         Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:

         (a)     maintain the existing Road Fund at at least its            1989
funding level in real terms;

      (b)   allocate a minimum of $36 million equivalent in 1991,
$38 million equivalent in 1992 and $39 million equivalent in 1993
from the       Road Fund and the capital      budget for   the periodic     road
maintenance and minor works program of MRH;
                               -7-


       (c)  allocate a minimum of $6,500,000 annually from the
recurrent budget for the period of 1991-1993 for routine road main-
tenance materials and plant operating costs excluding wages;

      (d)   promptly pay into the accounts established by GHA and
DFR for road maintenance works, on the basis of quarterly estimates
of road maintenance needs: (i) accruals to the Road Fund, monthly
in advance; and (ii)    amounts allocated in the budget for road
maintenance, as and when required; and

      (e)   ensure that the proceeds of the Road Fund shall be
utilized exclusively for the payment to contractors and the Mobile
Maintenance Units of GHA for road maintenance.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:

      (a)    furnish to the Association, not later than June 30,
1992, the findings of the study on the adequacy of road user
charges; and

      (b)   thereafter increase said charges in accordance with a
timetable acceptable to the Association so that full cost recovery
from road users for road maintenance will be achieved by 1994.

      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall maintain its Transport Policy
Review Committee with functions and terms of reference acceptable
to the Association.

      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall establish, not later than
June 30, 1991, a coordinating committee for improving the
organization and efficiency of public transport facilities and
operations in urban centers to be comprised of representatives of
MTC, DUR, MRH, GRC, the Accra Metropolitan Authority and private
vehicle owner associations.

      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:

      (a)   continue to hold with the Association annual joint
reviews of its three-year public investment program and annual
public expenditure programs in the transport sector; and

       (b)  consult w4.th the Association before undertaking any new
investment projects in the transport sector costing more than $5
million equivalent and not included in the public investment
program.
                                  -8-


       Section 3.09. The Borrower shall continue to enter into annual
performance agreements with GRC incorporating performance targets
acceptable to the Association.

                              ARTICLE IV

                         Financial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A through D of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out Parts A through D of the Project or any part thereof.

      (b)    The Borrower shall:

             (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
                    the Special At.ccounts for each fiscal year audited
                    in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                    consistently applied by independent auditors
                    acceptable to the Association;

             (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                    but in any case not later than six months after
                    the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                    report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                    scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                    have reasonably requested; and

            (iii)   furnish to   the Association such other information
                    concerning    said records, accounts and the audit
                    thereof as   the Association shall from time to time
                    reasonably    request.

      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:

              (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                    with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                    accounts reflecting such expenditures;
                               - 9 -


           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
                  tion has received the audit for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;

          (iii)   enable the Association's        representatives   to
                  examine such records; and

           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
                  in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
                  of this Section and that the report of such audit
                  contains a separate opinion by said auditors as
                  to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
                  dures and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Remedies of the Association

      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   GRC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.

      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that GRC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.

      (c)   The Ghana Railway Corporation Decree, 1977, shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of GRC to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

       (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of GRC or for the suspension of its operations.
                               -   10 -



      (e)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:

                   (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project
                         shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                         terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                         the terms of the agreement providing
                         therefor; or

                   (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.

            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
                   if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
                   of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
                   cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
                   caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                   any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                   (B) adequate funds for the Project are available
                   to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
                   conditions consistent with the obligations of the
                   Borrower under this Agreement.

      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:

      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower;

      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs      (c)   and   (d)   of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and

      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e)
(ii) of that Section.
                                -   11   -




                              ARTICLE VI

                    Effective Date; Termination

       Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by GRC,   and is   legally binding
upon GRC in accordance with its terms.

      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.

                              ARTICLE VII

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

      Section 7.01. The     PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower is     designated as representative of the
Borrower  for the purposes      of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

      For the Borrower:

             PNDC Secretary for Finance and
                  Economic Planning
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
             P.O. Box M40
            Accra, Ghana

             Cable address:                   Telex:

                   ECONOMICON                  2205 MIFAEPGH
                   Accra
                               -   12 -


      For the Association:

            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433.
            United States of America

            Cable address:                 Telex:

                  INDEVAS                     197688   (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.            248423   (RCA),
                                               64145   (WUI) or
                                               82987   (FTCC)

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.



                  REPUBLIC OF GHANA



                  By
                                          Authorized Representative



                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                  ByaACG
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                             Africa
                                 - 13   -



                               SCHEDULE 1

             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                               Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated        % of
                                (Expressed in     Expenditures
      Category                 SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed

Part A of the Project:

(1)    Civil works              35,530,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 60% of local
                                                 expenditures

(2)    Equipment, materials      5,700,000       100% of foreign
       and vehicles                              expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures

(3)   Consultants'               5,110,000       100%
      services, audit
      services and
      training

Part B of the Project:

(4)   Civil works                  130,000       90%

(5)   Equipment, materials         320,000       100% of foreign
      and vehicles                               expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                  - 14    -



                                Amount of the
                               Credit Allocated        % of
                                 (Expressed in     Expenditures
       Category                 SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed

(6)     Consultants'               2,000,000      100%
        services, audit
        services and
        training

(7)     Operating costs              200,000      100%

Part C of the Project:

(8)     Civil works                  200,000      100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
                                                  90% of local
                                                  expenditures
(9)     Equipment, materials         780,000      100% of foreign
        and vehicles                              expenditures and
                                                  90% of local
                                                  expenditures

(10)    Consultants'               1,020,000      100%
        services, audit
        services and
        training

(11)   Operating Costs                   70,000   100%

Part D of the Project:

(12)   Civil works                1,170,000       95%

(13)   Equipment, materials         200,000       100%
       and vehicles

(14)   Consultants'                 130,000       100%
       services, audit
       services and
       training

(15)   Operating Costs                   70,000   100%
                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2192 GH




 Project Agreement
(Second Transport Rehabilitation Project)



                     between


  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                      and


          GHANA RAILWAY CORPORATION




  DateA     6    e     J              ,   1990
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2192 GH

                              PROJECT AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated                     c     , 1990 , between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and GHANA
RAILWAY CORPORATION (GRC).

      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and the Associa-
tion, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-nine million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 69,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that GRC agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;

       (B)  by a subsidiary loan         agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and GRC, part        of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development        Credit Agreement will be made
available to GRC on the terms and         conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and

      WHEREAS GRC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;

         NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                  ARTICLE I

                                 Definitions

      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.

                                 ARTICLE II

                           Execution of the Project

      Section 2.01. GRC declares its    commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth  in Schedule  2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and, to  this end,  shall carry  out Part E of the Project
with due     diligence and efficiency and in      conformity with appro-
priate   administrative,    financial, engineering and railway management
                               - 2 -


practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for Part E of the Project.

      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.

      Section 2.03. GRC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisi-
tion, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part E
of the Project.

      Section 2.04. GRC shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, GRC shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.

      Section 2.05. (a) GRC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part E of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.

      (b)    GRC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part E of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by GRC of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.

      Section 2.06. GRC shall complete the strengthening of the
bridges on the Western line not later than December 31, 1992.

      Section 2.07. GRC shall continue to sign annual performance
agreements with the Borrower.
                                - 3 -


                             ARTICLE III

                   Management and Operations of GRC

      Section 3.01. GRC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and railway management practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.

      Section 3.02. GRC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
transportation practices.

      Section 3.03. GRC shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.

                              ARTICLE IV

                         Vinancial Covenants

      Section 4.01. (a) GRC shall. maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.

      (b)   GRC shall:

             (i)    have its  records, accounts and financial state-
                    ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                    expenses and related statements) for each fis-
                    cal year audited, in accordance with appro-
                    priate auditing principles consistently applied,
                    by   independent   auditors  acceptable  to  the
                    Association;

            (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                    but in any case not later than six months after
                    the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                    of its financial statements for such year as so
                    audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
                                -4-


                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and

          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.

      Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, GRC shall maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1990, a ratio of total working
expenses to total operating revenues not higher than the percentages
specified below in respect of the following fiscal years:

            (i)   161% in fiscal year 1991;

           (ii)   142% in fiscal year 1992;

          (iii)   97% in fiscal year 1993;

           (iv)   81% in fiscal year 1994; and

            (v)   76% in fiscal year 1995 and each following fiscal
                  year.

      (b)   Before May 31 in each of its   fiscal years, GRC shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by GRC and satisfactory to the
Association, ascertain whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of such year.
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, GRC shall on the
basis of the said forecasts, ascertain whether it would meet the
said requirements in respect of the next following fiscal year. GRC
shall furnish to the Association the results of each such review
upon its completion.

      (c)   If any such review shows that GRC would not meet the
requirements set forth in said paragraph (a) for GRC's fiscal year
covered by the review, GRC shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including adjustments of the structure or levels of its
tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
                                 -5-


      (d)    For the purposes of this Section:

              (i)   The term "total working expenses" means all
                    expenses    related   to   operations,   including
                    administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
                    payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
                    for depreciation and interest and other charges
                    on debt.

            (ii)    The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
                    from all sources related to operations.

      Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, GRC shall not, as from fiscal year 1995, incur any debt, if
after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall
be greater than 55 to 45.

      (b)    For the purposes of this Section:

              (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of GRC
                    maturing by its  terms more than one year after
                    the date on which it is originally incurred.

             (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                    loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                    providing for such debt or for the modification
                    of its terms of payment on the date of such
                    contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                    a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                    providing for such guarantee has been entered
                    into.

            (iii)   The term "equity" means the sum of the total
                    unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
                    reserves of GRC not allocated to cover specific
                    liabilities.

            (iv)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
                    be necessary to value, in terms of the currency
                    of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
                    such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
                    prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
                    other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                    obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
                    debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
                                -6-


                    basis of a rate of exchange    acceptable    to   the
                    Association.

       Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, GRC shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of
the revenues and expenditures of GRC shows that the estimated net
revenues of GRC for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to
be incurred shall be at least 1.5 ti.mes the estimated debt service
requirements of GRC in such year -a all   debt of GRC including the
debt to be incurred.

      (b)    For the purposes of this Section:

              (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of GRC
                    maturing by its  terms more than one year after
                    the date on which it is originally incurred.

             (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                    loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                    providing for such debt or for the modification
                    of its terms of payment on the date of such
                    contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                    a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                    providing for such guarantee has been entered
                    into.

            (iii)   The term   "net revenues"   means   the   difference
                    between:

                    (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related
                          to operations and net non-operating income;
                          and

                    (B)   the sum of all   expenses related to opera-
                          tions including administration, adequate
                          maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of
                          taxes, but excluding provision for deprecia-
                          tion, other non-cash operating charges and
                          interest and other charges on debt.

             (iv)   The term "net non-operating    income"    means   the
                    difference between:

                    (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                          related to operations; and
                               -7-


                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.

            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate of repayments (including sinking fund
                  payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges on, debt.

           (vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                  prepared by GRC not earlier than twelve months
                  prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
                  which both the Association and GRC accept as
                  reasonable and as to which the Association has
                  notified GRC of its acceptability, provided that
                  no event has occurred since such notification
                  which has, or may reasonably be expected in the
                  future to have, a material adverse effect on the
                  financial condition or future operating results
                  of the Association.

          (vii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
                  be necessary to value, in terms of the currency
                  of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
                  such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
                  prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
                  other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
                  obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
                  debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
                  basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
                  Association.

      Section 4.05. (a) GRC shall observe the financial, operational
and traffic targets set out in the Schedule to this Agreement,
subject to such modifications as GRC and the Association may agree
from time to time.

        (b) With respect to the staff levels set forth in the
Schedule to this Agreement, GRC shall: (i) furnish to the Associa-
tion its updated version of the previously prepared manpower study;
(ii) prepare not later than June 30, 1991, a staff reduction plan
acceptable to the Association; and (iii)       implement said plan
thereafter.
                               - 8-


     Section 4.06. (a) GRC shall:

            (i)   make any adjustments required in its tariffs in
                  order to meet its obligations under Sections 4.02,
                  4.03 and 4.04 of this Agreement in respect of a
                  fiscal year not later than January 1 of such year;

           (ii)   on the basis of the costs of services and market
                  conditions, revise, as necessary, its tariff
                  structure to the satisfaction of the Association;

          (iii)   ensure that its revised tariffs for passenger
                  traffic on the Western Line cover 100% of its
                  variable costs in 1991 and 1992          (excluding
                  depreciation)  and,  starting  in   1993,  cover a
                  proportion of its fixed costs as  well,  namely 14%
                  in 1993, 19% in 1994, 26% in 1995 and 30% in 1996
                  and the years thereafter; and

           (iv)   ensure that its revised tariffs for passenger
                  traffic on the Central and Eastern Lines cover
                  100% of its   variable costs in 1994 and 1995
                  (excluding depreciation) and, starting in 1996,
                  cover a proportion of its fixed costs as well,
                  namely 14% in 1996, 19% in 1997, 26% in 1998 and
                  30% in 1999 and the years thereafter.

      (b)   GRC shall, no later than May 31 and October 31 of each
year, furnish to the Association, semiannually: (i) GRC's investment
plan, financial projections and monitoring targets for the current
fiscal year and the next following three fiscal years, together with
an explanation of any failure or inability on the part of GRC to
attain the said targets; and (ii) details of any measures GRC
proposes to take in order to attain the performance and financial
targets required by this Agreement.

      Section 4.07. GRC shall: (i) revalue its fixed assets annually
by indexation according to procedures or formula satisfactory to GRC
and the Association; and (ii) take a physical inventory whenever the
Association or GRC shall consider it necessary.
                                     - 9 -


                                   ARTICLE V

                          Effective Date; Termination;
                           Cancellation and Suspension

      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.

          Section 5.02.    (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of GRC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:

                 (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
                       shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or

               (ii)    the date 20 years after   the date of this Agree-
                       ment.

         (b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its     terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii)    of this Section, the Association shall promptly.notify GRC
of this event.

      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.

                                  ARTICLE VI

                           Miscellaneous Provisions

        Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this    Agreement and any agreement between the
parties   contemplated by this   Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it     shall be delivered by hand or by mail,       telegram,   cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
                              -   10 -



notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:

      For the Association:

            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  INDEVAS                   197688   (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423   (RCA)
                                             64145   (WUI) or
                                             82987   (FTCC)

      For GRC:

            The Managing Director
            Ghana Railway Corporation
            P.O. Box 251
            Takoradi, Ghana

            Cable address:                Telex:

                  RAILCHIEF                  2437 RAILTK
                  Takoradi

      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of GRC may be taken or executed by the Managing
Director or such other person or persons as GRC shall designate in
writing, and GRC shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.

      Section 6.03.    This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each  of  which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
                               -   11




      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.



                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                  By
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                             Africa



                  GHANA RAILWAY CORPORATION



                  By
                                          Authorized Represent tive
                             - 12   -



                            SCHEDULE

            Financial, Operation and Traffic Targets

                                        1991    1992    1993    1994    1995

1.   Staff at end of                    6,500 6,375 6,250 6,125 6,000
     calendar year

2.   Account Receivables                  10%     10%     10%     10%     10%
     (Percentage of total
     revenues at the end
     of year)*

3.   Mainline Locomotive
     Availability

     (a) More than 10                     50      63      64      65      65
         years old

     (b) Less than 10                     60      73      74      75      75
         years old

4.   Mainline Locomotives                 240     260     275     280     280
     (kms/day)

5.   Wagons availability

     (a) More than 20                     56      59      62      65      65
         years

     (b) Less than 20                     82      83      84      85      85
         years

6.   Total Traffic

     Freight ('000 tons)                 810     903    1,248 1,470 1,525
     Passenger (Millions)                3.0     4.0      6.0   6.6   7.0
     Tonne-Kms (Millions)                144     163      252   304   317
     Passenger-Kms (Millions)            270     360      540   600   630



     No individual account should be more than six months
     outstanding.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                   CERTIFICATE

    I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
  of the ormginal in the archives of the International

  Development Association.




                         FOR SECRETARY
                                 - 15   -



                               Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated        % of
                                (Expressed in     Expenditures
       Category                SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed

Part E of the Project:

(16)    Civil works               2,330,000      100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures

(17)   Equipment, materials       3,690,000      100% of foreign
       and vehicles                              expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures

(18)   Consultants'               3,020,000      100%
       services, audit
       services and
       training

(19)   Refunding of                 540,000      Amount due pur-
       Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
       tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement

(20)   Unallocated                6,790,000


            TOTAL                69,000,000


2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;

       (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
                               - 16   -



       (c)  the term "operating costs" means the expenses incurred
with respect to Project management and monitoring, including office
expenses, travel costs and in-house studies excluding salaries.

3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      1   above,   no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:

       (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 700,000 may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after October
1, 1990; and

       (b)   payments made for expenditures with respect to Catego-
ries (16),  (17) and (18) unless: (i) the financing agreement for
the purchase of at least seven new mainline locomotives and for the
rebuilding of at least eight existing locomotives or, if GRC has
decided against rebuilding of the locomotives, for the purchase of
at least four new mainline locomotives of the 1651 class has been
signed; (ii) GRC has submitted to the Association its audited
financial statements for fiscal years 1988 and 1989; (iii) the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and GRC; and (iv) the Association has been furnished with
a legal opinion stating that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and GRC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and GRC in accordance with its terms.
                                   - 17 -


                                 SCHEDULE 2

                      Description of the Project

       The objectives of the Project are: (i) to further improve the
Borrower's transportation system through better maintenance and
rehabilitation of the road and railway infrastructure; (ii)       to
increase the transport sector efficiency through the promotion of
market-oriented policies,     strengthening of    transport   sector
institutions and introduction of appropriate low-cost technology;
and (iii)  to contribute to poverty alleviation in the rural areas
through a community-based program of labor-intensive road rehabi-
litation and other infrastructure and environmental improvements.

      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A:     Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance

1.    Road rehabilitation and maintenance program consisting of:

      (a)   periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of about
            2,600 km of paved and gravel-surfaced trunk roads;

      (b)   rehabilitation of about seven bridges; and

      (c)   engineering design work for periodic maintenance/
            rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of trunk roads,
            including major rehabilitation of four primary trunk
            roads (360 km) and seven bridges.

2.    Strengthening   of   GHA    in   planning,   control   and     contract
management.

3.    Training program for GHA staff, including acquisition of
training equipment and training aids and provision of fellowships.

4.    Acquisition of road maintenance          equipment,    spare     parts,
laboratory equipment and tools.

5.    Construction of about 40 housing units for GHA's engineers.
                                 -   18 -


Part B:     Ministry of Roads and Highways

      Strengthening of MRH's planning, programming and monitoring
capabilities through the provision of training, the acquisition of
office equipment and the improvement of office facilities.

Part C:     Transport Sector Institutions

1.    Strengthening of MTC's operational capabilities through the
provision of training, the acquisition of office equipment and the
improvement of office facilities.

2.    Training programs for the private sector vehicle-servicing
industry, including driver training.

3.    Development of road safety and traffic management programs.

Part D:     Northern Region Pilot Scheme

1.    Development and implementation of a pilot scheme in the
Northern Region,   involving local communities, non-governmental
organizations and, in particular, women, for:

      (a)   the construction of about 150 km of rural access roads
and about 50 hand-dug wells;

      (b)   the   improvement   and         maintenance   of     the   local
infrastructure and environment; and

      (c)    other   self-help       activities   of   benefit    to   local
communities.

2.    Promotion of the use of appropriate non-motorized transport
vehicles in rural areas.

3.    Institutional support for the pilot activities,             including
impact and evaluation studies.

Part E:     Railway Rehabilitation

1.     Improving the rail    capacity through the rebuilding and
acquisition of locomotives, wagons, other equipment and spare parts,
the renewal of sleepers in some sections and axle-load strengthening
of some bridges.
                              -   19 -


2.    Strengthening of GRC's operational capabilities through the
provision of training and management support.

3.    Studies on line improvements,      containerization   and other
aspects of railway improvements.



      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996.
                                   - 20   -



                                 SCHEDULE 3

                   Procurement and Consultants' Services

Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works

Part A:    International Competitive Bidding

1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured   under    contracts   awarded   in   accordance with   procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).

2.    Bidders for the road, bridge and railway works estimated to
cost more than $5 million equivalent per contract included in         Parts
A and E of the Project shall be prequalified as                described    in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.

3.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by
any third party inspection firm.

Part B:    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers

      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in    Part A.1 hereof,    goods manufactured    in   Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines               and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part C:    Preference for Domestic Contractors

      In   the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.

Part D:        Other Procurement Procedures

1.    Civil works estimated to cost less           than the equivalent      of
$1,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $13,100,000, and goods estimated to cost less   than
the equivalent of $300,000  per contract, up  to an aggregate   amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,200,000, may be procured under
                               - 21   -



contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertis-
ed locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.

2.     Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $60,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $1,800,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list  of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.

3.    Goods of a proprietary nature may be procured by direct
contracting from the supplier in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association, provided, however, that the
aggregate amount of goods so procured may not exceed the equivalent
of $600,000.

4.    Civil works under Part D of the Project, including tree
planting and other environmental works, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000 may be procured by direct
contracting with non-governmental organizations in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.

5.    The construction of housing units under Part A.5 of the
Project may be procured by direct contracting with existing housing
corporations based on established and published market rates in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, provided,
however, that the aggregate amount of civil works so procured may
not exceed the equivalent of $600,000.

Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

1.    Review of prequalification:

      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.

2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:

       (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
                               - 22 -


Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Accounts in respect of such contract.

       (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.

      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.

3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.

Section II.   Employment of Consultants

      In order to assist the Borrower and GRC in carrying out the
Project, consultants shall be employed whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                - 23   -



                              SCHEDULE 4

                        Implementation Program

Overall Coordination

1.     Overall Project coordination for Parts A, B and D of the
Project shall rest with MRH. To this end, MRH shall appoint, not
later than April 1, 1991, consultants in accordance with Section II
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement for the PHU established within MRH.
PMU's functions shall include inter alia assistance in procurement
matters, financial accounting, Project monitoring and progress
reporting and such other Project related functions assigned to it
by MRH.

Mid-term Review

2.    A mid-term review shall be carried out by the Borrower, the
Association and all entities involved in carrying out Parts of the
Project, not later than December 31, 1993, in order to evaluate the
overall progress of the Project and to modify Project implementation
procedures, if necessary.

Part A of the Project

3.    Part A of the Project shall be carried out by GRA.

4.    GHA shall:

      (a)   furnish to the Association, not later than June 30,
1991, a plan for reducing the direct labor operations in routine
maintenance and for the reduction of its own work force, including
targets for manpower reduction up to 1994 acceptable to the
Association; and

      (b)   implement such plan thereafter.

5.    GHA shall adopt economic criteria acceptable to the Associa-
tion (including a minimum of 15% economic rate of return) in the
selection of road sections to be included in the trunk road
maintenance program.

Part B of the Project

6.   Part B of the Project shall be carried out by MRH.
                               -   24-




7.    MRH shall furnish to the Association timely estimates of its
projected annual and quarterly Project expenditures.

8.    MRH shall furnish to the Association, not later than June 30,
1991, a schedule for submission of reports and key indicators for
monitoring progress of Parts A, B and D of the Project acceptable
to the Association.

Part C of the Project:

9.    MTC shall carry out Part C of the Project.

10.   MTC shall furnish to the Association, not later than June 30,
1991, its arrangements with local institutions for the training of
mechanics and drivers under Part C.2 of the Project.

11.   MTC shall:

      (a)   furnish to the Association, not later than December 31,
1992, the findings of the public passenger transport study; and

      (b)   implement thereafter the recommendations of the study
in accordance with an action program acceptable to the Association.

12.   MTC, through its Planning and Implementation Division, shall
furnish to the Association:

      (a)   timely estimates of its projected annual and quarterly
Project expenditures; and

      (b)   not later than June 30, 1991, a schedule for submission
of reports and key indicators for monitoring progress of i,s part
of the Project acceptable to the Association.

Part D of the Project:

13.   Part D of the Project shall be carried out under the super-
vision of the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) in MRH.

14.   MRH shall enter, not later than June 30, 1991, into subsidiary
grant agreements acceptable to the Association with non-governmental
organizations pursuant to which such non-governmental organizations
will organize the involvement of the local communities and par-
ticularly the women in the pilot activities.
                               -   25   -



                             SCHEDULE 5

                         Special Accounts

1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case
of Special Account PMU, Categories (1) through (7), and (12),
through (15); (ii) in the case of Special Account GRC, Categories
(16) through (18); and (iii)   in the case of Special Account MTC,
Categories (8) through (11) as such Categories are set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

       (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and

       (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the respective
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
equivalent to $2,000,000 in the case of Special Account PMU,
equivalent to $600,000 in the case of Special Account GRC and
equivalent to $300,000 in the case of Special Account MTC.

2.    Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.

3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:

      (a)    For withdrawals of any Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the respective Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.

      (b)    (i)   For replenishment of any Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                                 - 26   -



                     for deposits into the Special Account at such
                     intervals as the Association shall specify.

              (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                     Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                     documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                     paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                     payments in respect of which replenishment is
                     requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                     Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                     withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                     the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                     shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                     by said documents and other evidence to have been
                     paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                     expenditures.

All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.

4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.

5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into any Special Account:

         (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that   all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from   the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of    the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this   Agreement; or

       (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
                               - 27 -


Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all   such amounts remaining on deposit in any
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.

6.     (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into any Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.

       (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.

       (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any
Special Account.

       (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
     FOR IMMEDIATI' RELEASE



World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A. *Telephone: (202) 477-1234


         IPA NEWS RELEASE NO. 91/29                                              Contact: Marjorie Messiter
                                                                                             (202) 473-1793


                    GHANA LAUNCHES TWO PROJECTS THAT WILL ASSIST WOMEN AND CHILDREN                            .
                                                                                                                   -40
               WASHINGTON, December 17, 1990 --  Ghana is launching two projects which
        include actions to help women and children, especially in the poorest areas of
        the country. Both projects are being supported by the International Development                       C     N
        Association (IDA), the World Bank affiliate that lends on concessional terms to
        the poorest countries.

        Health and population project

               An IDA credit of SDR 19.5 million ($27 million) is supporting                    a project
        that will help improve health services for about 3 million people in                    the
        northern regions of the country, ensure the availability of vaccines                    to immunize
        the 2 million children expected to be born between 1992 and 1994 and                    extend
        family-planning services to an additional 100,000 women.

               The project supports measures to improve delivery of health services;
        reorganize the Ministry of Health (MOH); and strengthen district-level
        management of primary health-care and expand family-planning services provided
        by MOH, Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana and other non-governmental
        organizations.

                Funds will be provided under the project to purchase medicines to help
         Ghana meet its requirements from 1991 to 1993.  The project will also provide
         funds to purchase and maintain equipment at hospitals operated by the Ministry
         of Health and non-governmental organizations in the northern regions.

        Transport proiect

               IDA is also providing a credit of SDR 69 million (US$96 million) in
        support of the Second Transport Rehabilitation Project. The project will
        improve local roads, provide bicycles and other transport to villagers, and
        increase employment opportunities for more than 2,000 poor women living in one
        of the poorest areas of northern Ghana.

               The project will hc L rehabilitate 2,600 kilometers of paved and unpaved
        roads, increase the hauling capacity of the Ghana Railway Corporation by
        providing additional locomotives and other equipment and improving some track.
        It also includes funds for studies that will help strengthen transport sector
        agencies.
                                      -2-
       A pilot program in the northern region will employ people from about 50
villages to build roads suitable for bicycles and small vehicles. Women will
constitute about 70 percent of the work force. The program will provide daily
meals and iron supplements to ensure that these women are not adversely affected
by the physical labor required for road-building activities. Part of the wages
earned by the villagers will be used to purchase bicycles and cycle-trailers
which will make rural transportation easier, especially for women and children
who carry goods on their heads. Local non-governmental organizations will be
actively involved in project implementation.

       The IDA credits are for 40 years, including 10 years of grace; they carry
no interest, but have annual charges of 0.75 percent on the disbursed balances
and a variable charge of up to 0.5 percent (currently zero percent) on the
undisbursed balances.


Note:   IDA credits are denominated in SDRs (Special Drawing Rights), which are
        valued on the basis of a "basketn of currencies. The U.S. dollar
        equivalent of the SDR amount of the IDA credit reflects the exchange
        rates existing at the time of the negotiation of the credit.
                                THE WORLD BANK
                                INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
.7                              OPPORTUNITIES SERVICE
                                TECHNICAL DATA SHEET

     DATE APPROVED:                                                 PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
     December 13, 1990                                              The objective of the Second Transport Rehabilitation
     COUNTRY/PROJECT:                                               Project is to support the ongoing Economic Recovery
     GHANA: Second Transport Rehabilitation Project                 Program by removing physical constraints in transport
                                                                    infrastructure, reducing transport costs for goods and
     TOTAL COST:                                                    passengers, and supporting exports, farm production,
     $230.4 million                                                 and the mobility of people. It will also help alleviate
     IDA CREDIT: $96.0 million                                      rural poverty in one of the poorest areas of Ghana.
     OTHER FINANCING:                                               The project includes: (a) civil works, institutional
     Government of Ghana, $68.4 million                             strengthening, and equipment in the road subsector;
     Cofinancing, $66.0 million                                     (b) capacity improvements in the railway subsector
     IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES:                                         through provision of locomotives and wagons, equip-
     Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH)                           ment and tools, civil works, and institutional strength-
     Accra, Ghana                                                   ening; (c) public and private transport sector
     Telex: 2395                                                    institutional development; and (d) low-cost rural infra-
     Contact: Mr. J. Sam                                            structure development and maintenance systems with
                                                                                            employment and involvement
     Ghana Highway Authority (GHA)womens
     Ac,GhanahaAuhrt(G           )                                  through civil works and institutional support to women
     Accra, Ghana                                                   and non-governmental organizations.
a    Telex: 2006
     Contact: Mr. H.D. Quaynor
     Department of Feeder Roads (DFR)
     Accra, Ghana
     Telex: 2514
     Contact: Mr. B. Sakibu
     Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC)
     Accra, Ghana
     Telex: 2293
     Contact: Mr. E.A. Kwakye
     Ghana Railway Corporation (GRC)
     Takoradi, Ghana
     Telex: 2437
     Contact: Mr. A. Ababio
     CONSULTANTS:
     Consultants will be required to assist all components of
     the project.
     ESTIMATED COMPLETION DATE:
     1996




     TDS Mailing #41   December 21, 1990             Copnght C 1990;WThe Bank
                                                                     Wobnrd                                     SHEET 3 of 8
PROCUREMENT:
Figures in italics are the amounts to be financed by the IDA for the Second Transport Rehabilitation Project.
Amounts are in US$ millions. Totals do not include $2.8 million for interest during construction.

                                               Procurement Method

Project element                         ICB              LCB           Other            N/A            Total

Civil works                             55.1             21.4            0.9            51.6           129.0
                                        47.0             13.1            0.8                            60.9
Equipment, spare parts,
 vehicles, and materials                13.8              1.5           2.9             58.9            77.1
                                        12.6              1.2           2.4                             16.2
Consulting services, technical
 assistance, and training                                              19.3              2.2            21.5
                                                                       18.9                             18.9
Totals                                  68.9             22.9          23.1            112.7           227.6
                                        59.6             14.3          22.1                             96.0




TDS20741'90
