XQI< - yji-~ X l  luWA                                                    FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 161A-MAS
MAURITIUS
APPRAISAL OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 5, 1973
RURAL DEVELOPMENT TN'IT
AGRICULTURE AND RURAI. DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
OT cited without Bank Group authorizationi. Thc Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy oa completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00    = Mauritian Rupees 5.4 (Mau Rs)
Mau Rs 1.00 = US$ O.lB5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)                         0.3o5 meters (m)
1 square foot (sq ft)           =   0.093 square rters (n2)
1 mile (mi)                     =   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)           =   2.590 square kilometers (km2)
1 acre (ac) 1/                  =   0.405 hectares (ha)
1 Imperial gallon (gal)         =   b.545 liters (1)
1 pound (lb)                        0.373 kilograms (kg)
1 ton (t)                           0.907 metric tons (m ton)
ABBREVIATIO14S
DbM    = Development Bank of Mauritius
DdC    = Development Works Corporation
EPU    = Economic Planning Unit
Ilk    = International Labor Office
RDCOO    Rural Development Committee of the Cabinet
RDI    = Rural Development Unit
rpIM    = Travail Pour Tous
IN*, D    = United Nations Development Program
VjA    = Village Council Area
VO    - Village Development Officer
= World Health Organization
FISCAL YEiAR
July - June
l1thoug-h t.he TBritish system is used for most measurements in Mauritius,
land aires is peasured in "arpents," one arpent being equivalent to about
1.OL' ;icr-s. "kcres" is used throughout this report.



MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......     ..................  i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION    ...................................   1
II.    BACKGROUND   .................................        2
A.  Economy and Recent Trends .....     .............  2
B.  Unemployment Problems ......     ................  2
C.  The Rural Sector ........     ...................    5
III.    THE PROJECT                      ..............       8
A.  General Description .......     .................  8
B.  Detailed Fe&tures .......     ...................  9
IV.    COST ESTIMATES   .................................    12
A. Project Costs .........     .....................   12
B.  Financing Arrangements ......     ...............   14
C.  Procurement ..........    ......................    16
D.  Disbursement .........    ......................   16
E.  Accounts and. Audit .......    ..................   16
V.    ORGANIZATIOAN AND MANAGEMENT ......    ..............   16
A.  Rural Development Committee of the Cabinet..   1?
B. Rural Development Unit ......      ...............   17
C.  Ministerial Planning Units .....     ............   18
D. Development Works Corporation .....     .........   18
VI.    ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .   20
VII.    RECOMMENDATIONS       ................................    25
ANNEXES
1. Employment and Unemploynent in Mauritius
2. The Development Works Corporation
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Mauritius (November 1972) and a follow-up mission (February 1973) cosprising
Messrs. A. Schumacher, W. Drewes, G. Henderson, B. Kennedy, L. Ljungman,
H. Malik, H. Parish and D. Turnham.



3.  Project Organization
4. Tentative Future Land Capability and Crop Use
5. Fodder Production
6. Forestry
7. Village Improvement
8. Bench Terracing
9. Disbursement Schedule
10. Accounting and Auditing Procedures
11. Monitoring and Evaluation
12. Method of Economic Evaluation
13. Budgetary Implications
CHARTS
Chart 1  - Project Organization
Chart 2  -  Organization of the Development Works Corporation
MAPS
Map I - Project Areas
Map 2 - Selected Village Council Areas
Map 3 - Land Use - Northern Area
Map L  -  Iand Use - Southern Area



MA.R ITI`JS
BFAL DEVECLPINT PR06E.T
mb'IALR8  A;;D ,N:JLU!SIu)F
i.         After a decade of stagnation, Mauritius is currently exp-3riencing
a period of economic grow-th.  A record sugarcane tonnage was harvested if;
1972 and sugar prices rer.ain high. Industry is developing faster than
anticipated u.id tourism is expanding.  An ambitious GDP growth target of
se7tr: percent per annuz a set under the Mauritius 1971/75 Development Plan
has oeen achieved for the first two years of the Plan period.
)2.       Despite the encouraging aspects of recent experience, lmemoloy-!ent
aid )overty remain critical problems, having increased severely during the
±o'JOr. rhe 1972 Census shows 16% of the labor force, or h1,000 to be unem-
vloye',   sharp rise from the 23,700 (12%) recorded ten years ecrlier.  Even
wita a sustained growth rate of 7% per annuii, it will take some ti'ie be ore
the resuiting expansion of the economv begins to effect a signific-          4Action
in current levels of unemployment.  In the rural areas, villages coi.rruo to
lack:  (a) land resources with which to proiuce food; and (b) basic physical
amenities suchI as an adequate wiater supply, a market place and roads-.  Forty
percent of tr. rural households rely almost entirely for their livelihood on
tne sugar estates sinc- these occupy virtually all the land surround;ng
vJ i aes.  Prosspects for expanding elcloTinent on these esTates are limited,
Sone ?0C of t..e population have annual household incomes at or below a  inr.1nm=1
level of IJU.753 necessary -'or family subsistence under Mauritian conlitionr.
'.h! - _peci-l 'asures aref  essential both to rreuce unemployment -al-d to broa-ien
th-  i_stribution of incomce.
iii.      Goverrment's strategy involves the longer term creation of permanent
employm':nt in industry supplemented in the short-term by temporary employment
oppvrtuni.ties through works programs.  But the Plan's permanent employment
tari-ets are a-mbitious, particularly for the agricultural sector.  While a
satisfactory start has been made in industry, overall employment targets will
probably not be attained and unemployment is likely to increase to 15,000 by
19?75.  In these circumstances, the expansion of the Government's temporary e-iplov-
ment programs becomes especially important.
iv.        The next few years would be a testing period for Government's em-
ployment creation strategy. The proposed Rural Development Project does nct
purport to solve this problem; it does, however, constitute a step in that
direction. This would be the first IDA credit for a rural public works pro-
gram with the creation of productive employment as its major purpose.  More
specifically, the Project is intended to:
(a)  Reduce unemployment among males over 16 years of age;
(b)  Utilize and train these unemployed males in productive work
using labor intensive techniques; and



- in -
(c) Ensure that the benefits of Ulhe investments accrue to the
poorest segments of the rural population.
v.         Under the Project, bench terraces (1,000 acres), fodder planting
(l,000 acres) and afforestation (L,000 acres) would be developed; the basic
infrastructure (roads, village centers, narkets, water and health services)
of 86 poor villages would be improved; and supporting technical and training
services would be provided.
vi.        Project cost is estimated at US$11.0 million and covers a two year
period.  An IDA credit of US$h.0 million would finance foreign exchange costs
of US$2.0 million plus US$2.0 million of local currency costs. Parallel
financial support of US$1.8 million would be provided by the UNDP, UNICEF,
US, UK, France and India, mainly for management, training, project preparation
and vehicle and equipment requirements. Giovernment has negotiations under way
regarding this support.  The balance of Project costs would be financed by
the Government.
vii.       The Rural Development Unit in the Ministry of E';nomic Planning
W(oud undertahe overall coordination of Project component3.  Matters of
rrc_d policy concerning the Project will be decided by a newly created Rural
',eve½pnment Comnittee of the Maur-tian Cabinet.  The Development Works Cor-
-       . Jon(DWC), a statutory body organized under the Ministry of &nployment,
w 1' -1 arry out the Pro iect works.
vi.i.      Foreign materials required for Project works with a value of
Ur$6Qe,Q,OO  (bitumen, cemernt, steel rods and water taps and pipes required)
v;ould be financed after international competitive tendering.  Th,ese tendering
r,,ce.lres would be in sccord:nce with ID.A guidelines.
.i;.      Tlne estim'ted ecorn'dic returns on the directly produc'ive eleir.ents
Sr,. '.,£  or bench terra-mig,, 84. fcr afforectaLion and 13% for fodder plarntings.
-.-se econorrtic returns were bh-ed on shrdow prices for 'abor and foreign ex-
. Iu.  lt;e ma  r ' T-T c:c  oA z,e Project would be to give tenmporary employment
,- '2 v rke~r a!Ui e-?rmanent errplobment to 1,COO workers after the construction
:--d  i;,   rove in:ornc distributirn in rurai areas.  "in addition, it will
l{r d+1tive  nid s^cial potential of the rural poor.
HavinLg received the required assurances, the Project is
-:,>.  for an IDA credit of US1Z.O million.



MA URI TI US
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mauritius is seeking IDA finance to support its
rural development and employment program which is part of the Mauritius
1971/75 Development Plan. The main aim of the program is to achieve full
employment by 1980.
1.02      By providing short-term employment opportunities, the Project would
help to contain unemployment until an expanded industrial sector can absorb
more labor. In addition, the Project is designed so that a substantial part
of the benefits accrue to the rural poor. This strategy would be complemented
by the existing and proposed IDA operations in industrial credit and estates.
A subsequent operation may include assistance to the smallholder livestock
sector.
1.03      This Project by no means purports to solve the problems of rural
poverty and unemployment in Mauritius. It does, however, constitute a step
in that direction and offers ways of pursuing the multiple objectives of im-
proving output, employment and income distribution.  The resulting project
is a multi-sectoral package and includes elements relating to agriculture,
transportation, marketing, water supply and health.
1.04      The Project has three principal objectives:
(a) To reduce unemployment among males over 16 years;
(b) To utilize and train these unemployed males in productive
work using labor intensive techniques; and
(c) To ensure that the benefits of the investments accrue to
the poorest segments of the rural population.
1.05      The proposed IDA Project would be the second directed at the rural
sector in Mauritius; a US$5.2 million Credit to develop smallholder labor-
intensive tea production was made in 1971. This project has encountered a
number of problems, of which the most important is the erosion of production
incentives due to falli:Lg international tea prices and by a substantial in-
crease in production costs, includirg wages. As a result, it is unlikely that
the estimated tea acreages projected for the first IDA Credit will be met.
The PMEA supervision unit in Nairobi has this project under close supervision.
1.06      The Project was prepared by the Ministr-y of Economic Planning of
Mauritius assisted by two IDA missions that visited the country in November
1971 and June 1972. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission (November 1972) and a follow-up mission (February 1973), comprising
Messrs. A. Schumacher, W. Drewes, G. Henderson, B. Kennedy, L. Ljungman,
H. Malik, R. Parish and D. Turnham. This heavy staffing was due to the sec-
toral complexity of the Project.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A.  The Economy and Recent Trends
2.01      Background.  Mauritiusi' is a small volcanic island of 7?0 sq mi
lying in the Indian Ocean 500 mi southeast of Madagascar (Map 1).  About
one-third of the area is mountainous or otherwise unsuited for either agri-
cultural or urban development. Just under half of its total area, or about
90% of all cultivable land, is planted to sugarcane. The sugar industry
makes up over 90% of Mauritian export earnings, provides the bulk of the
agricultural work and 40% of total employment. The country is heavily im-
port oriented for most of its basic foodstuffs, capital equipment and con-
sumer goods.
2.0?      Following the eradication of malaria at the end of the Second
World War, the population expanded rapidly at nearly 3% per annum and by
1962 had reached 682,000. The rate of increase has declined since then and
has been about 1.8% in the last few years exclusive of emigration. In 1972
total population was 823,000. This is equivalent to a high density of 1,800
persons per sq mi of land suitable for urban or agricultural development.
With intensified family planning programs, natural population growth through
1980 is expected to be 1.7% annually.
2.03      Current Situation and Recent Trends.  The Mauritian economy is
experiencing a strong upsurge at present; the sugarcane harvest in 1972 was
at record levels witn prices well above average, industry./ is developing
faster than forseen under the 1971/75 Development Plan, and tourism continues
to expand. There is therefore a strong indication that the Plan target of a
7% GDF annual growth can be sustained through 1975. This promising economic
performance contrasts markedly with the past decade, when the economy was
virtually stagnant and real per capita income (at US$200) actually declined
as population during the early part of the decade grew at a higher rate than
output.
B. Employment and Unemployment
2.04      Current Situation.  The Muaritian economy has not been able to pro-
vide adequate employment oppcrtunities. This is partly explained by its extreme
dependence on sugar. Since sugar growing has traditionally enployed very labor-
intensive methods, economic absorption of any additional workers has been
difficult.   The labor force (like the area harvested) in the sugar industry in
the early 1970s was no higher than it had been 10 years earlier; at which time
it accounted for nearly L0% of employment.  As population increased, the burden
to provide employment fell on the non-sugar sectors. The failure of these sec-
tors to absorb the increase in the labor force has resulted in an even more
critical situation at present.
2.05      Unemploymernt in Mauritius has increased every year since 1960 (Annex
1). Fro2n about 23,700 persons (12% of the labor force) in 1962, unemployment
grew to 11,000 (16%) persons in 1972. This large increase has occurred despite:
1/ Mauritius is a member of the British Commonwealth and OCAM and will become
an associate member of the EEC in mid-1973.
2/ The main attraction of Mauritius for foreign investors is: (a) the cost of
labor, which is about one-tenth that in Europe and one-third that in Hong
Kong and Singapore; and (b) the capacity of the labor force to be trained
raRnidlv snd to perform nrecision tasks.



-3
(a) considerable efforts on the part of the government to provide relief
work for adult males in the public sector; (b) Government encouragement of
the sugar industry to refrain from mechanization; and
(c) emigration o2 about 900 workers annually. In 1963 a Relief Worker Scheme
w.s introduced providing 1,000 jobs. irt 1972 some 12,0OO persons were employed
as Relief Workers and a further 6,500 in the Development Works Corporation
(see para 2.09). The data available indicate that without the special employ-
ment programs of government, new employment opportunities would have absorbed
only one-third of the increase in labor force over the period of the 1960s.
For adult males, to which these employment programs were exclusively directed,!/
the increase in employment outside these programs was a meagre 1,700 jobs or
170 iobs pet annum on average. Not suprisingly, the rate of unemplovment among
young men, who have not been affected by the programs, is very high indeed.
2.01)     The following table indicates the employment situation in 1597:
Labor Force      Employment.L!     Unemployment
Males:       l5-20                    38,500            l8,206)          20,300
21 and over             161,200           147,500           13,7uO
Females:    total                     1493QO            Lt2j,o            7,000
TOTAL                           2h9,000           208,OOU            l , ;)00
S -'972 Popuiation Uensus; and Ranistry ef Labor d.-t  for .eli*ef ,tr
Development Workers.
2.07     Despite high unemployment, some sugar pl.nters experienced difftJcu»tst!
in 1972 securing temporary labor during the peak three-month harvest time. Partly
dlie to their reluctance to emDloy these persons on a year round brsi.9.3/This
is cited as evidence by the private sector in MSauritius that the data on regis-
tered unemployment are incorrect and that in fact little full time unemployment
exists among adult males. This is explained by the fact that acceptance of a
few months employment disadvantages the worker who is placed at the bottom of the
unemployment register at the end of his employment. Also, younger workers, par-
ticularly those with at least six years of primary schcoling, are reluctant to
take on such tempcrary and physically demanding work. A similar prcblem is en-
countered in other sugar growing countries. In the case of tea, employment is
unattractive since piece work rates for plucking are extremely low (equivalent
to lelief Workers) and estates are often distant from the center of labor supply.
Declining international tea prices inhibit planters fron raising wages.
2.U8      Government Unemployment Relief Measures (1,3-l'72).  Tne Government,
as early as 1563, began taking measures to deal with tne unempioyment problem.
Initially I,000 unemployed men were hired in a Relief workeros prgram and assignerl
to va-rious ministries and agencies to cirry out simple maintenance work for three
7l
P  Yourg r,en and women have been excluded from these programs since the Govern-
ment policy was to hire only adult male breadwirnners.
2/  Includes 18,500 Relief and Development Workers.  The he.ief WorKers program
is not accepting any new men.
3/ Annex 1 gives further details on governrment efforts to max].mize 'he
pernanent workforce in sugar.



days a week. By 1967, the. number of Relief Workers had grown to 30,000
(over 15% of the labor force). Lack of funds reduced the program to its
1973 size of 12,000. The scheme was not a success as most ministries were
not organized to manage and control large groups of unskilled workers ard
lacked the capability to design productive labor-intensive projects to em-
ploy them. Thus little work was done, the scheme became costly and em-
barrassing to Government and the workers themselves became demoralized.
2.09      To reduce the number of Relief Workers, a program called "Travail
Pour Tous" (TPT) was organized in 1970. It too was meant to be a stop gap
measure, not to compete with the private sector. The major differences between
TPT and the Relief Workers Scheme were that in the TPT: (a) construction and
other new investments replaced maintenance work; and (b) the workers were cen-
trally managed by a newly created Development Works Corporation (DWC) (Annex 2),
rather than dispersed among the ministries. From 1971 to date. DWC has been
successful in managing some 6,500 full-time TPT workers (mostly former Relief
Workers) and in organizing productive work for them. When projects are com-
pleted by DWC and turned over to ministries which are charged with staffing
and maintenance, major problems arise since it is often the first time that
these ministries have official knowledge that such projects were undertaken.
Also in plarning for future expansion a major uncertainty arises from the
ability of g:vernment agencies to generate a sufficient volume of productive
activities, uiless ministerial planni.g t-apabilities are strengthened (Annex
2.10      Prospects in the 1970s.  The 1971/75 Development Plan marks the be-
ginning of a major effort to tackle the formidable structural problems of the
Mauritian economy. The strategy calls for a massive diversification program
into industry and, in the context of a faster rate of economic growth and in-
vestment, a rapid expansion of new job opportunities in industry in the longer
term. In total, the Plan looks for the creation of new jobs, exclusive of
relief/DWC programs, at an average rate of b.1% per annum from 1971 to 1975.
For 1975 to 1980, when the industrialization effort is fully underway, employ-
ment growth at 5.7% per annum is projected.
2.11      Although a good start has been made, the tarfets are ambitious,
especially for agriculture. It now appears that the construction of maior
planned irrigation shemes is behind schedule. Due to these delays. these schemes
would not provide a net increase in jobs in agriculture before 1976. On
balance, the expectation is now that employment will increase at 3.h% per annum
for the period 1971/75. This rate of increase, with the relief/DWC worker pro-
grams maintained at the current level, would imply an unemployment rate in 1975
of 16i1, the same as in 1972, but higher in absolute terms by 4,000.
2.12      The next few years are going to be a testing time for this strategy,
both in determining the longer-term success of the industrialization effort
and in alleviating the problem of unemployment in the short-term. Thus, the
j Currently DWC plans and designs these projects, obtaining a cursory review
and authority to construct them from the Economic Planning Unit of the
Ministry of Economic Planning.



short-term  importance of the rural dlevelopment employmnent proggramn. is lkely
to be Of 'great Figoz f:ance giva-_n t,ie slow  start in  overall long-term  employ-
mQnt, crea -ion, and a high -nitial leve' of unesqloyment.
2.13 >      hare Fo-c.  Duiring the 15'Us, the Government attemrtad tc: shield
emoileye(l v.4             s  ;:-a.:e worst effects of the aeterioratirig erqp)lovryet sit-
lhr-     tiv.   --ect r         , )ian of wares and fringe benefits.  &;overr-
m"..' i;.  '.  + 1-. o.      e c'-ifiict or not.ertial conf4iot between wage fixing
-i   .:j e -a  b.t onsidored a,tic,n  -o  rrest the erozion of the rea1
w--   0o lr it'-.cl   e-en:iol, esCe^4;Ily in the charged circumstances surrounding
o!.e aicnhei't:e .t o' indepeadence.  The result of these efforts has however
t: t   ;  srrne groups of workerF, particutlarly those worldng in  sec-
_ w'                 i 4.-.'_ ~t'i;   oeis eare easy to enforce, do much better thar. others.
i7   e.'.                    wtar of wat;e  o:3Ort2Oa often adds to unemployment directly
A  $   p-"- ,:ano a,-- able througgh family support) to wait f,-o  a
.- ^-; .vcred sector, men=wlidle refusing openings irn the lo,  paid
_c- ' -    ircn st:oncen, . suitably moderate policy with resne-  4
'aa  a .e-.ss c_ea"ly very  S e ra5oe a.  zay be vital if the er-l qeat
. . g * .s  .  f w ;h  o~ J-ecti ve c-.   the I.'.71/   Development Plan are  to he met .
;':'1~9OO ,  -r-Un,  rre  :enercoL 12'  increase. This was the first, rise in
4-  ez- c )r   s4--'  -,,  rllu nr7 whrich neriod the cost of liv-ing rose by morme 33;.
rr- re'acrt of an external Sala ries Co-m.ssioner
i.: x-b+v-,!'.r*   .. ''iv-' a'  Of  'r'anes  r' raices that tcgela.er wool(i 
'    :           sa    DE    y ova' eve" c ge o" ', '. ,his latter increFse is cxrected
etprijvate sectorz. These increases have to be seen against
+.w;<      ' . ovn  of st,;I'e Sa;arq es taLrough the sixties and as a means for a mo-re ec uA-
n ;se('_  . r earnings.  In order to assure that such
" or b I     .  . actU'.y,  .ke p;lc:ce without le-didng to inf1at,ior.ary
* :¢--+:.:ir-s c         ot O_ ,  . .'=erze et fec2    on savings and investmen ., (o%-rnnment is
e~ -e;zz: s^ tr.;sna,; ..is sc_airy  incrvease with various institutional andl fiscal
.   ,-  .      co2. the  lovcrnrna,  1s consoious that it is important that
-:½etiti'/-   i     , L'                  tot.   .  i   lLL, continue to attract priz..tb
.: -. ->r..- . .S,,-u  creat,,-li7 further e. p loyment.
_ '- l :nd o0ataer benefits for D'Pv workers are so3rre 221    * 
i-.:-.,    - .:-.er 'cski l   -. e  ero in  ,he iovernment sector, and be-low  those for
- rr eze  wcr: iln  ,he m.re organized parts of the priv-te -cct.cr
.,,r; *    ,  - e    ornn;rat>'e, in so,me cases h:.igher -han, wages pa;-.  by smna.'-
., -    er t r~--eirs cr for purelv, casual work.  If the Pro.ect is to  uIl'i-1 ltS
* '>;s-ec>,.e   'cbl  in'v   "sn-sv dr£iJn workers frcm the weaker era-ioyers in  the  i;ate
.rrcs ,  - LT-, e oif, e- . p0'sy 'or DWC workers is reoutred  (see  arr-a  .1i ).
C.  The Rural Sector
i c! li i, u.e    ; tructure  -!d Prnblers
-. l,       L, r, is '.toe 3iritin. fctor ta  expansion of production.  ,;bout  C,
r1ir   n !iseho1dero .re landless; the rem3ining (D / own or  -ent an ,vero'-'
f- .;  oe:.  "here are 3nt),C)<   acret; of a dditional lana whih doulc to  *
tIva ted pre-vaee  sura,-.t-nt .l ,nve.trr.ents are made in destonang and/cr hc .
a.~,        iujr r .  Lan ..rT,-wership  ir, the sugar industry is skewed, with 3^
of lanw  ower,  y  1 'a-rg   estates.  The reiainirg 4?,f is divi.e'd a nor%  a.
eat in- en  gL,... swse"r -.   he' argfe  ' states , each wt,th its  "I' ll,'s !.n.i
eCh4eve  'a Elcs aver:a--Zim  about 33 t,n,:s/acre while  the Fmaller growers averqgE
ox9-  2_ tc   .



- 6 -
2.1        Sugar production continues to be highly labor-intensive, exrployi&r
some 5550( full-time a   7,0O part-time workers.  'unlike rany countrifs,
mr.ost operations, ever: cane loading, are dene by hand.  The rerr.oval of large
stones from arable land, plowing and the traJ.sport of cane from toLe field to
factory are the only operations fully mechanized.  Plantinij, rnulching and
some weedinig are undertaken by hand as is also the harve6tirg.  Mwih nf t':
re'. -incc or, iabor is dictated by the rocky nature of Lhe cane growing  .reas
wnich hinders the mechanization of most onerati on. exctri loSding.  Should
br-r coFts expand at a fa.ster rite thal. durtog thr. past decade, the 4-! dustrv
will doubtle5s follow   the example of a number of Caribbean cn untries a!d Haw.ii
i..nere maany operations have been. mechanized.  Greater Lse of herhicddes an,' the
rechanizsation of cane lading woulci follow in this event.
21Tea.  Tea nere-ge (12.00(0)  acres) if- divided alnost equally between
ec-tates and small tenant growers.  Sm ;1 -holder cperatiors are prenenttly bein,
i. -oeLset luncer an IDA--financed project frar. 5,0T   to ar.,und 10,000 acres.   r I,
irJlustry  cuzrently enpi --orroe 10,(000 perso-ns.  Due to ri-;ng  wage ccsts .n.d.
-1111 1:g irterlatio nal pricer,   te tea ion! .y-    ulikel v ti. exr:oA  ar  muy
nAve to contract.
. '_u     Livestock.  Liv#a-ttock is a srmall producer actirv_y on a pact-tirr.e
ua:fliS with a low level r-f te  uLical effJciency.  There are 2'2,o06 Cow-keepers-
wf ';iicd 2,,¢ have a hercl d,r tor+ele or more anirals.  AlTimcs  no cow-keeper d4e-
pf r,  'aon tnia  activity  aF- hti  otnly se-urce of income.  Milk is retail    th,r )u- i
sr:-, . -ria--rilemen oper;ititg cn      cyc     Previous attemrpts to rati-anaiiz.e rm2.k
a-  jar-roe    -i'c f'   ;    h     failed.  Goverrnment is ab:ut tc fors!ri
,-v oc k letZlcpnie. t I ",r'    to c^rnstl; ate the varm ousr SCcnemi5- and
- -:ef  -, -.ve in a!. S-          - .    .  L -::`c A.b>Jtc ,Liven are to ijmrove the feeding.
'Ai*  st)-,  tl.914'1:5e 0  ;" >.  i      J,s.r:: oy-pra'O  :sl-^  (noiloses anIr 1,1.yT  cc),
t-;a ,t1 _7'  ;fi-oP   >})t.-' _1 '~''.;:8 '. li-r-rop  50so as to exrand the 'nluS tr-: .'ai
n:riity 4 f .                       Vot;,  - t.     --e *,te quilit.y cf rir a-rd its mLarketini-.
'.-   u-. is   e`               i eo tha n m.s;', or  i-r  l-   ! ' ;
..;+. trae-.. !O .  ,       i.-' tf 'c--. in- ';nong r:et fr.';n>: is$iuts F'.  *'a:i. 'nra   i. a5
-,et  L~qpu ats .; oe        tt
exr~~~~~~~~~~ ~.  4- r. - ~"i  F    .  y{ 'rv ].' ,-........  -c ""v  C' 5 q:
('--'t -                               t-t- '   '"  'ne    .etrrug 'es ¢-tall
I -r                            r   r- Iii  y       _
-            1:e  ,.-t>-'1~ -        t-l,.nn 'corx  'l   >   .:tr'!';-
;Dl ii  U 4A v  i         o-   itO    lrc - rep.',eement calves; unaes
v-i 1 1    ~ ~ ~ '-  'PrP    
D -Jae  n                          d ir%, rI:o t' il a: rai.r'alus  a s.-f:
t>\:> gst.l .. ,Ca:t a't: acres o'f p!'oor quLJ ity forest ir-
'cres a're state-owned.  T'he forest areafs are
. ,, .\t cd iar tne  yit-a, abo-ie 1,000  ft elevatica.  Land a.va-t lable
: elis    cvret] by a   4c, -.-tSubtropi.ca.-l scrub.  Pin'e is the douinant
--.   i:  -..   rest-;; 6C,0 is less than five vears old and iC% is uinder
-     c ae.  harveastecd trees are used for firewood, poles and pine tirmber.
rf 1.rin tng the pro5.f.itability  of forectry in Mauritius are high land-c'earing
Weit?(f7, -- ostr     i -eriodiar damage caused ty cyclones.  'tIn addition, the pre-
' r-   fr woci '-o !_           La.nd timber is low at Mau His 0'.20 (US$C.-lC)



-7-
per cu ft compared to international prices of US$0.13 per cu ft. Government
is currently renegotiating this price with the prime concessionaire (para 3.07)
(Annex 6).
2.23      Small-Scale Rural  ndusIt  ad Aariculture.  Lending by the  eviel'p-
ment Bank of Mauritius (DbK) to small-scale industries and agrIculture increase6
dramatically in 1972 to 77 loans amounting to MAu Rs L93,000 (.)S$92,COC,), com-
pared with a total of 27 loans for Mau Rs 133,000 (US$25,000) in the preceding
seven years. Most of these loans were made to small workshops, crafltsmen and
dairy producers. These loans are guaranteed by the Government whuich also meets
the administrative expenses incurred by DBM in processing and supervising the
loans.  To expand this activity DBM is opening 20 brarch offices.  Eight of thes
branches would be in, or near, the six poorest rural zones included in the Pro-
ject (see Map 1). Small farmers and industries in these areas would get pri-
ori tA _n obtaining loans and would be assisted by Village Develop.ment Officers
whnere necessary.  In addition, DBM is examining the feasibility of establishing
industrial estates in the rural areas.
Rural Villages:  Structure and Problems
2.CL       'he rural villages of Mauritius are not self-contained comrmunities
in a European, or Asian sense.  Instead the Mauritian village is a ribbon of
1abor settlemernts spread along the edges of the sugar estates and around the,
siLes of existing or abandoned sugar miills.  This pattern of rural living is
co;,on to many island sugar monocultures where labor requirements were origi.n-
ally imported.
2.25       The result is that a number of rural villages in Mauritius lack both
the land resources witi-n which to produce basic food needs and the basic piyriz..l
amenitJes of a regular comrnuinty (adequate water, a proper market place, tn-
ternal roads, a village meetIng place, etc.).  The villagers, especiall.v the
lcinfles:, rely for many of their needs on the sugar estates (Annex 7).
The Villdge of Carol with a populat- on of 14C7 persons in f3 Louse-
holds Is a- exaimle of one of the peorer villages in Mauritius.  Rnugj3y half
,he housing is in poor conoition.  Only one house has a private r-n;llrmg W.Ler
supply and .o the villaners must rely on three public water taps which are
inadequate for tne village needs.  Villagers walk one and a half miles to the
neares, bus stand, as buses will r:ot negotiate the access trail.  Internal
roads are dirt lanes, which become mud pits in the monsoon.  Carol has no primary
scnool, post office, telepnone or electricity and the nearest market, place is
a bout four miles away.  No villager owns land.  One man rents about .n- acre.
Cf 13. working population of both sexes, aged 1-539, 102 are employed, tn2
majority of these only for about 5 to 7 months during the cane na-vestirkg sea-
Son.  For four or five months a year, some women obtain a modest cash incone
fattening cows and calves for the local butchers, but they must provide the
fodder, collecting it from roadsides and distant Crown Lands.  For these ser-
vices butchers pay them Mau Fs 10 (US$1.85) per month per animaL.
2.27       This village was included in the Government's  Ic72) PR>½- 
for the improvement of IL villages, a proto-type program for the vai_Lge 3,r-
provernent scheme proposed in the Project.  In Carol, as a resui.  zf this pro-
gram, internal roads have recently been improved, and an additional public
water tap constructed.  Electrification of the village has cornenced and is
expected to be completed shortly.  A mobile dispensary now visits once a week.



- 8 -
Thirty out of forty-five cow-keepers have established a cooperative society
and a loan of US$60 per member is being negotiated from the Cooperative Bank
to enable purchase of a female calf per member. Each member will become a
cow-owner rather than be a poorly paid laborer.  Milk production wil' provide
more net income than cattle fattening. A self-help program of vegetable
gardening has been launched. Negotiations are almost complete with the ad-
jacent sugar estate to lease some 22 acres of land for use as a fodder re-
serve by the villagers.
IIl.  TiE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The Project covers the two years (FY197h and 1975) of Mauritius'
program of rural development and employment creation. It is designed to bene-
fit the poorest segments of the rural pFpulation and during its execution would
create temporary employment for about 7,400 males . over 16 years of age. After
completion, 1,000 permanent job opportunities would be created. The Project
would also provide tecinical and consultant services to strengthen the institu-
tions responsible for the preparation and implementation of this program and
to support an extensive training effort.
3.02      Specifically, the Project would provide:
(t)  Bench 'Perracing,
Building about 1,O000 acres of bench terraces.
(b)  AfforertaLion
Afforestirig ebout L,000 acres of uq)roductive scrub with pine
and eucalypzus and constrr~cting about 20 ima of light forest
access azrn  extri;ction roads.
(c)  Fcdder
C1caring acnd plantirg about 1,000 acres of foddvr.
(e,:1U~J VD ., v|_im;roveimen'
i,.'r3ving living condition!s in the poorest rural villages by
2 Iovi di ng1:
!L-sic amonities suicih as water raps, heClt  c
access anH Jr.ternal roads, markets and community
centers; and
(if ) 3.isttl.c] for self-help schemes.
(e)  Teuhnmcal  nd Consultant Serv- ces
Pr.,viding staff and consultant services to strengthen and
ixqrove thce;
(i)  Management control, engineering, architectural and
training capabilities of DWC;
(ii) Planning and evaluating capabilities of the Rural
Development Unit; and
! ]FTemales have benefitted more than males through employment in the new indus-
tries recently set up in Mauritius.



-9-
(iii) Pro-ect preparation capability of planning units in
the Ministries of Agriculture, Works, Health, and
Town and Country Planning.
(f)  Training
Training both overseas ar.d locally of:
(i)  Senior staff of DWC and the Rural Development Unit;
(ii)  Middle management and supervisory staff of DWC in
management control and accounting systems; and
(iii)  About 3,000 young male workers of DWC in semi-skilled
trades su^h as carpentry, pipelaying, masonry, repair
of vehicles, equipment and office machinery.
B. Detailed Features
3.03       Bench Terracing.  About 1,000 acres of land would be terraced.  Some
13,5U0 acres of slopes between 2_5  an5d 50  were identified, which would be suit-
able for bench terracing.  Prior to 1973, none of this area had been terracei,
but in early 1S73 trials were conducted by DWC to test this cconcept uz;der Mauritian
conditions.  Given the novelty of this component, only  c00 acres in each of tne
two years of the Project would be undertaken (Annex 8).
i3- ach acre of terrace would require an average of three man year  to
construct.  Virtually all the cost would be labor.  In the trials organized in
early 1973, the labor gangs proved proficient at developing the stone work for the
bench fronts.  Of the terraced areas, 500 acres would be on lanis oirned by
mnarginal subsistence smallholders and the remainder on unoccupied Government
Crown Lands.  The latter would be subdivided into two-acre terraces by the lane
planners of the Ministry of agriculture and leased to landless householders in
the pcorest 20,o of the rur;:l villages by their village councils. Assurances
to this effect have been sought from the Mauritian Government.  The i.ural Devel-
opmer.t Zonurdttee of the Cabinet (pztra 5.C2) would have the fin;a  authiority on
lar.d allocation.
3.t"      ,),. i her value crops such as Iychees, onions, mixed vegetable, tomatoes,
pctatoc,- and lettuces would be grown.  The production technology of' 'he-se crops
is familiir to Mauritian farmers.  Any credit required for financing annual pro-
-uction costs would be available eitther from the Cooperative Baik or the Eevel-
opment Bank of Mauritius. Two acres or its productive equivalent woul(d give the
poorest householder an annual net cash income of Mau Rs ,05C (US$300) plus con-
sumption of Mau Rs 600 (U5$110) of home grown food.  This is above the arnnual
wages (Maii Rs 2,000) of an unskilled government laborer and about equivalent to
the annual wages (Mau Rs 2,700) of full-time laborers on the sugar- estvates.
Afforestation.  Some 1,,000 acres of scrub land woold be plantec  j.
productive species of pine and eucalyptus.  This planting would Porn; r--+ {-at
the Government's on-going af,forestation progran.  The lard clearance  ana p--.r -:-
tion work, unlike most other countries, is highly labor-intensive Jn P1auaitius.
'The labor reauirement for establishment of pine and eu(alyptus plantations is
about orne m;ril year per acre.  The labor cost component is 82A of the develop-
ment cost. The program would also involve constructioni of aUbout 20 lo, of light
access and extraction roads.  The harvested timber would be used as building
material (Annex 6).



- 10 -
3.07       e  price of Mau Rs 0.20 per cu ft (US$C.(1) charged to sawnillers
for wood extracted from Government forests is a result of a long-term contract,J
with the principal concessioraire. This price is well below international
levels of around J            The principal concessionaire is not able to buy
sufficient wood at this price to utilize his sawmilling equipment and is will-
ing to renegotiate the price before expiraGion of the cos.ract in 1976.  Goverri-
ment has Initiated discussions to this end.  An assurance has been obtair'.e
during negotiations that
the Project areas to be afforested would be excised from the concession agree-
ment
3.08       Fodder.  Lack of sufficient fodder near villages is one of the prin-
cipal factors limiting increased milk production. The planting of 1,000 acres
under the Project would provide fodder to enable the feeding of an extra 3,000
cows, though it is likely that most of the fodder will be used to i-prove the
nutrition of existing cows.  Individual households would be leased 2/3 of an
acre or its productive equivalent of fodder per cow and ,would have the sole
right to harvest the fodder from this land at a chargei/ of Mau Rs 72 (US%13)
per acre per year.  Land will be clearec, and planted in units of l0-30 acres
depending on the amount of land available close to vill.ges (PrAnex N).
3.09       Villare l proverent.  Basic amenities would he provided for b6 poor
rural villages  Annex "'.  Items to be financed uould include internal and
access roads, village comnurnity centers, rural health clirics, market centers
and public watar taps.
(a)  zmprovement of village roads would stimulata economic acti-ity
by facilitating access to markets and iirprove the mob'lity of
labsr by allowi ng the extension of bus routes.  Roads aculd be
z-.nstrolo ed oojing traditional labor-intensive  iechriaues to
inimiurn stardards.  Surfaces would be bitumen sur!>;ce  treated
oecause )f the very heavy rainfall intensity.
(b)  The village halls would be used for a Variety o- act_i'ies
such aS -jr-icultural and lvestock exten 4ir  rro- ms, family
pla-Lrini :Js.riction courses, meeting Dia es .)f   er:iveo,
clu' lub  r; vilage councils  01d as placeF .or   scc-s:or for
the vrilage ir-rove;nent progr:tn.
-> .t.groco we, i-a2 facilities * bet!, pv entve ernd 'llra-v.V
:vodf be ,^,v.dei in t.;e ru.a. roeaitn cent-r-.  The ser:ioes
:ve doct-r wcull' be av_lvble fjr aiCu'vt `5Ž,'t:  -ersons ardc
* .  .'f a dentist, a r'ealzd  c^"firer and a nursing office±r for
-,   ti tr,J)  persons.
V aiZet centers would erccurage stile jf loca,.ly produced
-e~ricultaura.c('.'  .Ani a req7ar tasr          11der  hygienic coneitions.
{e ) A, : tlOrl.j put'j c wf ter taon would be constructed in 86 villages
to p-oidie 1 gallons of water iniOv per person, ManY people currently
get, orny ! J gallons a day.
'R buli t. ;tn-'r the ?roect would be ;dequat.y ,iind.ain d and stasfed and
r'ian  -~<r)d soec rications eo  the v'lla>e improvesment comqponents would be ap-
prov-t- oy IDA pr!ier to construction.
1/ Awarded after a Substantial portion of the Mauritiari forests had been blown
down by a cyclone in 1960.
2/  Until a Liveot.-ck iDevelopment Authority is organized, these charges would be
collected by. fre mt'nistry of Agriculture.



- 1.l -
3.10      In addition, a village self-help component would be introduced
through this Project. Assisted by a locally-based Village Development Officer
(Annex 7), the people in the poorest villages would be encouraged to develop
schemes (fencing of fodder areas, fruit tree plantings, recreation field con-
struction, home vegetable gardens, rabbit, poultry, duck raising, etc.) which
would benefit the individual and the village directly (see para 2.26). All
labor required would be contributed free and voluntarily by the villagers, but
goods and supplies up to a value of Mau Rs 15,000 (US$2,778 equivalent) would
be provided through the ProJect to each of the participating rural villages.
3.11      Village Selection.  In early 1973) at the request of the Association,
the Government established a methodology for : (a) locating tho villages con-
taining the poorest 20Q of the rural population; and (b) identifying basic phy-
sical amenities lacking in these villages for social and productive developmnent.
3.12      A village poverty index (Annex 7) has been constructed to assist
sclecti or.cf the most needy villages.  Major elements in the profile are:  (a)
the extent of! village unemployment and under-employment; (b) availahr-ity of
village amenities e.g., market places, school, clinic, village hall, water,
telephone and electricity supplies; and (c) housing conditions and transport
facilities, including roads. Data for this purpose were obtained for all
village localities in Mauritius, using special tabulations from the 1972 Hous-
ing and Population Census returns, information supplied by ministries, and on-
the-spot village surveys conducted by Village Development Officers.  Urfor-
tunately, household income data were not available.
3.13      Based on these village locality indices, the poorest village local-
ities were grouped into their respective Village Council Areas .2   Twenty-
nine Village Council Areas were selected for inclusion in the village improvc-
ment progr;m.  Areas were selected partly to ensure sufficient concentration
of resources for the effective implementation of the programs, and partly to
sunport minimum sized villages.
3.l4      Combining improvements in the Village Council Area and specific
village localities ensures a locational pattern of basic infrastructure in
the rural areas. The nucleus of service facilities in each of the selected
village council areas will serve an average of h,500 people.
3.15      Technical Services would be provided to strengthen the management
control, engineering and architectural capabilities of the Development Works
Corporation (Annex 2). A Project Manager would be appointed to the Rural
Development Unit (RDU) of the Ministry of Economic Planning.  The RDU would
also require advisers to assist in Project evaluation. Additional technical
assistance would be required to support planning units in the key Ministries
of Agriculture, Works, Health, and Town and Country Planning (Anmex 3).
3.16      Training would operate at three levels in the Project:
(a) Short overseas visits to countries with similar rural develop-
ment programs by senior Mauritius staff of the DW4C ard ""IT who
will administer the principal components of the Project.
/_The Village Council is the smallest unit of local government, grouping an
average of 10 village localities.



(b)  In-country training of middle management and supervisory staff
of DWC in management control, production scheduling and accounting
systems by staff recruited internationaIly.
(c) In-service training of 3,000 young male DWIC workers in seri-
skilled trades such as carpentry, pipelaying, masonry, vehicle,
equipment and office machinery repairs by staff recruited inter-
nationally.
IV. COST ESTIMATES
A. Project Costs
4.01      The Project is estimated to cost US$11.0 million.  The foreign ex-
change component is estimated at US$3.2 million.



COST ESTIMATB
---Mau Rs  000------             --------US$ '000------       Foreign
Loca1     Foreign   Total      Local      Foreign   Total      Exchange      Labor
Conponent    Component'/
1.  Bench TerracinZ /1                   7,510        740    8,250       1,390       140      1,530         9             87
2.  Afforestation /1                     8,280      1,400    9,680       1,540       260      1,aOO        14             82
3.  Fodder /1                            2,430        340    2,770         450         60       510        12             83
4.  Rural Village Improvement
a.  Access & Internal Roads          7,240     4,350   11,590        1,340       800    '2,140        37             40
b.  Community Centers                  750        460    1,210         140        90        230        39            32
c.  Market Centers                     720        430    1,150         130        80        210        38            32
a.  Water Supply                       380        410      790          70        80        150        53            32
e.  Health Services                  2,150     1,730    3,880          400       320        720        44            30      1
f.  Self-Help                          320        970    1,290          60       180        240        75             -
g.  Administrative Cost              2L840          -    2,840         520          -       520         -
Sub-Total                    14,400     8,3$0   22,750       2,660      1,550      4,210       37             37
5. Technical and Consultant
Services.                         1,640      2,000    3,640         300       370        670        55            40
6.  Training                               670      1,760    2,430         130        320       450        71             25
Sub-Total                     32,930    14,590   49,520        6,470     2,700      9,170        29            53
7.  Contingencies                        6,980      2,920    9,900       1,300       540      1,840        29             L
a.  Price                            3,490      1,460    4,950         650        270       920
b.  Physic?l                         3,490      1,460    4,950         650        270       920
Gran, Total                   41,910    17,510   59,420        7.770     J.240   11,010          29            53
1/ Includes DW'  administrative costs estimated at 14% of investment costa.
7/ Includes su;porti g vehlcles and equipment.
3/ This is an u derestimation of the labor coTponent sin'ce i.t does not include 'self-helP' labor which is non-financial cost.



- lb -
4.02      Project costs are based on DWC experience in carrying out similar
worksi/ and allow for recent material and labor cost increases; they include
estimated taxes and duties of US$800,000.  Estimates for the bench terracing
component are based on two trials carried out by DWC in February 1973. Esti-
mating the specific content of the self-help program i3 not possible ua:_,
the communities define their particular needs; the cos s therefore cover lump
sum allocations. In estimating Project costs, an annual price contingency of
10% was added to both foreign and local costs. A Dhysical contingenev of
10% is also included.   Cost estimates for the technlcal services
aix.a training components are based on recent IBRD records of costs for these
services.
B. Financing
4.03      IDA would finance 36% (US$4.0 million) of the total Project cost.
This financing would include foreign exchange costs of US$2.0 million plus
US$2.0 million of local expenditures. The Government contribut-on would be
USV5.3 million of which US$800,000 consist of taxes and duties.  UN.DP, USAID,
UK, India and France have been supporting the on-going DWC rural development
program through contribution of food (USAID) and technical services (UK, India,
UNDP and France) and vehicles and equipment (UK and UNICEF).  The Government
of Mairitius has entered negotiations with these various donors to maintain
and expand this parallel support which would amount to US$1.7 million under
the Project. Informal discussions between IDA and these donors indicate that
their contributions will probaoly be forthcoming. Assurances have been ob-
tained that Government would provide the shortfall should any of this support
not materialize.
_'  T¾e:ce cost estimates were reviewed by the apprasial mission and found
t G>~ bsatisfactory.



- 15 -
FINANCING
US$ '000
Government    UNDP and
Bilateral        IDA       TOTAL
1.  Bench Terracing                680           210           640        1,530
2.  Afforestation                  780           260           760        1,800
3.  Fodder                         250            50           210          510
4. Rural Village Imiprovement  1,580             860         1,770        4,210
a. Scheduled Items /2       1,440            860         1,670        3,970
b. Self-help a                 140            _-           lo           240
5. Technical and Consultant
Services                      300           220           150          670
6.  Training                       130           150           170          450
7.  Unallocated                  1,540              -           300       l,81h0
TOTAL                      5,260          1,750         4 000       110I10
48%           16%           36%         100%
a  USAID ($900,000 for food aid), UNDP ($30,000 for project preparation and
mapping assistance), France ($150,000 for DWC training assistance), UK
($M50,000 for DWC management support, vehicles and equipment), India
($Lho,000 for DWC management support) and UNICEF ($80,000 for rural health
center equipment).
2  Internal and access roads, community centers, market centers, water supply,
rural health clinics.
Z3 Only materials would be eligible for 42 % reimbursenent by IDA. The financial
value of the wages of village contributed labor was estimated at US$560,000
equivalent which would equal 6% of Project costs. As this labor is a non-
cash contribution, it is excluded from estimated cash costs and financing.



- 16 -
C. Procurement
4.04      The principal items to be purchased would consist of bitumen
(Us$336,000), cement (US$111,000), steel rods (US$94,000) water taps and pipes
(US$6L4,000). Contracts for these items would be in accordance with the IDA
Guidelines for Procurement and would be phased over a period of two year6.
British Commonwealth preference would not be aDplied to murchases under the
Credit.
D. Disbursement
4.05      The Acccunt3 Department of the DWC would prepare quarterly statements
of work completed on eligible projects. These statements would be certified by
the Project  ianager and the General Manager of DWC prior to submission to IDA
for reimbursement through the Ministry of Finance. Disbursements for work
cowpleted will be made against a certificate of expenditure resulting from
the quarterly statements, the docunentation for which will not be submitted
for review, but will be retained by the Borrower and be available for perusal
by the Association during the course of Project supervision missions.  ID;
would reimburse h21 of the village improvement, forestry, terracing, fodder
and self-help (materials only ) components.  IA would cover foreign exchange
ccsts of the technical, consultant and training service components of the
r-) Ce t.  A schedule ol- estimated IDhA disbursements is given in Annex 9.
E. Acosunts and Auditing
All Project ;.ccoun-s including those of DW, would be subject to
;:ni  external audit by the 1Giovernment's Director of Audit under ;rocedures
s;e ;f ed in the Statutory Bod-ies Audit and Account Act of 1972.  Th.ese
,roce,iires are satisfac'v,ry to the Association anid assur3rces have been
b.  e   sttat all audited  xrot acccunts woold be submitteo to the Association
' -     3!Jx montiis *oliow-ng the close of the financial year.  However,
..  ;rm.r al f-rnancial .:d ~'Uc4t.nq ucntr-01  would need to be .proved in thle
^-,rlc .-eas:  (a) sep r.se P-rolect accounts; (b) accour.ts of taterials used
.-~ r '].--L  sef-hop ,.-o;ct,; c   (c) strenrtnened Internal audit of D#C over
' ''.'s alnd services ;S9' e-n site.-1.  (DetL s .-re prcvidel id  Annex 10).
..;    ces on zre . re rio--r-uin,T of interna  DVW  acco-nting and ;uditing
-iurrs h,~ve Leon JTh iIzed during ns,-.tiiations.
V.  '.3.'lZArI0N A^D MANGr
prc ezu   anninr and execution capability of existing govern-
.  ', wo-uu oe streni_gthen;t.i under the Prolect.L/ T'he overall pro-
be c3ordinated byz the Rural Deve2opmernt Comaittee of the Cabinet
h-in.red by the Prime Ninister.  Its secretariat would be the Rural
., - '',rner''!-t (IIDU) of the Ministry of Economic Planrning.  This unit would
. r   . ;ec' Manager, senior cfficers to coordinate the Villnge Iiprove-
-.. -ra., '   star  for a s.i. l monitoring section.  The Project Manager
* a-r  serery of t}e RDWC.  Tie Proiect planning units of individual
4 .ou2i be strengthened to ensure:  (a) close ministerial co-
:--o  c!-,A ie follow-up niaintenance and staffing of the projects; and (b)
n . ip o:ne of labor-intensive projects for follow-up phases.  DWC
.ll.  c.---ry out the construction of all projects.
,   -- vhar4 1.



- 17 -
A. Rural Development Committee of the Cabinet
5,02      As the projects would use a large labor force, a strong policy
committee is required to ensure that parochial ministerial or indepEendent
agency interests do not dominate overall Proiect strategy. Thus, assurances
have been obtained during negotiations that the Government would establish
and maintain a Rural Development Gommittee of the Cabinet which would have
overall responsibility for the planning and execution of rural development
projects. The principal functions would include: (a) establishing criteria
and policy requirements for rural development projects; (b) assessing rural
development projects recommended by the Ruiral Development Unit; and (c)
recommending policy changes to the Economic Cormmttee of the Cabinet in
such matters as wages and conditions of employment. This Rural Development
Comoiittee would include representatives of the relevant Mini3tries and would
co-opt heads of public agencies and authorities concerned with ruxal devel-
opment where necessary. The Chairman and Vice-Chairman would be the Prime
Minister ancd the Minister for Economic Planning and Development, re--^tively.
Details of the Cummittee's functions and membership are given ir, !rviex 9.
B. Rural Development Unit (RDU)
5.0'      hne RDU would be maintained as a distinct entity withiin the Min-
istry of Economic Planning. This Unit would work closely with the planning
units in the various ministries and with the general staff of the Economic
Plann!ing Unit.  Its principal function would be to focus on policy and co-
ordination in respect of the project pipeline and also screen proposed pro-
jects before presentation to th_ Rural Development Comrmittee. A small eval-
uation group would be orgaiLzed in the Unit to undertake a detailed assessment
of the various costs and benefits of completed Project components.  The 1DU
would be headed by a ProJect Manager, who would be assisted by a Deputy.
Anrnex 3 details suitable cualificatiocrs, duties and responsibilities for the
position of Proiect Manager.  Assurarnces have been zought that the appoint-
ment would be mutually agreeable to IDA and the Government. The Project
Manager would also serve as Secretary of the Rural Developrient Conmmittee of
the Cabinet and woulc --sc be charged with the overall direction of t'ne
Village Improvement Progra_.  By drawing on the regular staff of the Economic
Planuning Unit in the XiiL stry of Economic Planning (EPU), tne RDU woulcd min-
imi ze its own staffing requiremerLts. During negotiations assurances have
been obtained that Governmernt would maintain within tne Mirnistry of  Cnonomic
Planning a separate Fural Development Unit whose staff w uld inter al   in-
clude a Pruject Manager and 3 Senior Vlillage Improvement Officers.
5.01    Monitoring ard Evaluatiorn.  As the Proeject would have a nunber of
experimental features, careful monitoring and evaluation would be undertaken.
A small monitoring section would be establisihed in the . DU.  Ansistance on
evaluating the results of the data collected by this rorditorring staff would
be provided under the Projiect.  During, negotiations, assurallces have been
obtained that Governmertt would organize a small monit.arir.g section In the I'DU
and would utilize qualified 2nd experienced consultan-It assistance or -' ua-
tion unider terms and conditions satisfactory to the -Association (see -.nncx il).



- 18 -
C. Ministerial Planning Units
5.05      Of the 22 ministries in Mauritduo, four are likely to play a kev
role in this Project: Agriculture, Works, Health, and TGw-n and CounLry
Planning.  Each of these ministries would be responsible for gencratinr
projects suitable for execution by the DWC. Tne RDU would then vet each
proposal. These ministries have already established core units specifically
charged with this task. To ensure a satisfactory project pipeline for sub-
sequent phases, assurances have been obtained during negetiations that each
of these ministries would strengthen their small planning units. The prin-
cipal functions of these units would include: (a) preparation of rural dev-
elopment projects, which, after appraisal and recommendation by the Rural
Development Unit would be sent to the Rural Development Committee of the
Cabinet for approval; and (b) the maintenance and staffing of executed
rural development projects. These units would give particular attention
in their planning to follow-up work concerned with the maintenance and
staffing of assets built by DWC labor.
D. Development Works Corporation (DWC)
5.06      DWC is a corporate body established under the Development Works
Corporation Act of 1970. DWC current activities cover labor-intensive con-
struction projects on primary school classrooms, roads, village halls, fod-
*+er olantings and afforestation. DWC is now the largest single corporate
employer on the island. The Project would involve 50-55% of DWC's future
activities. Thus, it is important that its structure, management, hiring
and wage policies, and procedures are adequate for Project execution.
5.C07     The Board of Dh'C consists of one representative of each of tne
MYinistries most directly concerned with its operations (Finance, Works,
-griculture, Local Goverrment, Economic Plamning, and Employment), to-
geth?r with five additional members from the private sector and a Chairman;
;.-.Ppinted by the Prime Min-ster.  The DWC Act provides that the h.ard of
.-, :ha:l administer its affairs, establish its policy and deter-nir.e tnoe
conditions of service of its officers and workers.
Thi'Ti  .'ct further provides that U,e -,eneral Manager of DUC shall
;e its chtl ef exerutive officer, responsible for the execution of the policy
.f    ?ad   the control and mana..fement of its d.ly-to-day business.  The
ci 11-r;crs of DWC are to be under the admir.istrative control of
Thus, under this Act, DWC ha.; a well-defined operating structure.
;e} the ; r.es of executive author tv and jur-sdiction established by
-  be-on.e o±uddieo.  The Ministry oL Employment, which is vested
,:!:t zetain supervisory powers under the Act, has beccme embroiled in
-:vt'C sf detailed- DWC administration such as contract approval. This
4tiates the concept of DWC as an independent statutory board.  In
the Chairmarn of the Board has assumed executive functions of the
iener, '"r:tger of the IDWC.  Consequently, assurances have been sought dur-
.Ln;" t;-.itions that:  (a) the Government would permit the Board of DWC to
cxer':;e  ull responsibility for setting personnel policy, contracts approv-
inpi, etc.; and (b) that the General Manager of DWC will be enabled to exer-
cise his full executive powers and authority in accordance with the provi-
I nr of the Act.



- 19 -
5.10      The present General Manager of DWC is acceptable to the Association.
An assurance has been sought during negotiations that the qualifications and
experience of any replacement to the post of General Manager would be mutually
agreeable to the Borrower and IDA. The implementation of the Project necess-
itates the appointment of a Deputy General Manager in DWC to take charge of
day-to-day management. An assurance has been sought during negotiations that
such a post would be established and filled with a person whose qualifications
and experience would be mutually agreeable to the Borrower and IDA.
Hiring and Wage Policies
5.11      Hiring.  A substantial element of the projected unemployment in
1974 and 1975 will be among young men, 16 to 21 years old. Also, Government
is anxious to continue to reduce the number of people reliant on the Relief
Workers Progran.  Current DWC hiring policies exclude men under 21 years.  Of
this age group in the labor force, more than half are unemployed. During
negotiations asslirances have been obtained that IviIC would adopt a hiring policy
which would provide for the employment of additional workers in the following
proportions:
(a) Not less than 33% of young males, 16-20 years of age;
(b) 33% from the existing Relief Workers; and
(c)  The remaining from unemployed males 21 to 64 years of age.
5.12      Many DWC workers consider their jobs permanent.  They do not think
of DWC as a temporary provider of jobs when the sugar harvest ends.  During
the 2½ years that DWC has been operating, DWC management has failed to impress
on people that DWC is a temporary employer.  Its efforts to dismiss workers
once their job has finished have failed due to political pressures by dis-
missed workers on Government for reinstatement. Nevertheless, the concept of
DWC as a temporary employer should be re-established in practice and efforts
begun to redirect DWC policy. Assurances have been obtained from Government
during negotiations thats (a) DWC would encourage its workers to actively
seek permanent and temporary jobs outside DWC; (b) any DWC worker who accepts
temporary employment outside DWC would be entitled to be reinstated subse-
quently to DWC employment within the limits of available jobs; and (c) DWC
would discharge any worker who would not accept employment with comparable
wages and conditions.
5.13      Wages.  Since DWC should be only a temporary employer, its wage
package should be at least 20% below comparable jobs in the Government. While
comparisons are difficult, it appears that current (early 1973) DWC wages (in-
cluding the value of paid holidays, transport, etc.) are about 76  of the wage
package received by unskilled Government workers and about 60% of equivalent
workers in the sugar industry.  To ensure that DWC wages woald not act as an
incentive to divert workers to DWC from other employmer,: an assurance has been
obtained during negotiations that DWC will maintain a wage rate structure for its
unskilled employees equivalent to not more than 78% of wages gcz etted for
unskilled government workers.



- 2U -
Training
5.1h      DWC is undertaking an increasing amount of training, both on-site
and at the international Labor Office (ILO) Industrial Trade Training Center
located in Mauritius. The DWC training programs would need to focus increas-
ingly on scarce skills in semi-skilled trades such as masonry, plumbing, mech-
anics and clerical skills such as bookkeeping, typ.ilg, filing, etc. For senior
staff, training fellowships for short-term courses and study visits to countries
with related rural works programs would also be orgarnzed. To ensure that the
training element in DWC work is given sufficient eMphasis, a separate training
department entrusted with this task and reporting directly to the Deputy Gen-
eral Manager is required. Details are outlined in Annex 2. Assurances on the
organization, function and staffing of a training department within DWC as out-
lined in Annex 2 have been obtained during negotiations.
5.15      Impact on Government Budget.  At full development, the Project would
create a cost (net of rents and forest earnings) to Government of Mau Rs
1,100,000 (US$200,000) annually, mairly for maintenance of assets created
under the village improvement schexpes (roads, village halls, water, health
clinics) (Annex 13).
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
i.0l      The benefits of the Project consist of increased production of
agricultural and forest products, and the creation of infrastructure and
social amenities at the village level. The Project will give temporary
employment to a large number of unemployed workers and will thus ameliorate
the severe and worsening unemployment problem that exists in Mauritius. Most
of the benefits of the Project accrue to the lowest income groups. In the
coniditions prevailing in Mauritius, the social and economic benefits arising
from employment creation and the alleviation of poverty are substantial.
Production
,).U2     Afforestation.  The afforestation component of the Project is
part of a program designed to meet Mauritius' demand for firewood, poles,
and pine timber. The economic evaluation is based on rotaition periods of
IC: and 25 years for eucalyptus and pine, respectively, with some benefits
accruing earlier from thinning. Allowance has been made for anticipated
loss of production from cyclone damage, but no account has been taken of
the benefits of lessened soil erosion. The land being planted is presently
unproductive. Some 18.5 million cu ft of timber would be harvested worth
Mau Rs 31.3 million (US$5.8 million).
6.03      Terracing.  The bench terracing of steep land will control soil
erosion and allow higher yields to be obtained, higher value crops to be
grown, and previously uncropped land to be brought into production. It is
anticipated that the terraced land will be used to produce maize, tomatoes,
other vegetables, and orchard crops, and that the annual gross value of
output from the land to be terraced will rise from about Mau Rs 560,000
(US$103,000) at present to Mau Rs 2,200,000 (US$o00,000) when full produc-
tion is attained.  The individual farmer cultivating two acres would rea-
lize an extra Mau Rs 2,050 (US$380) plus Mau Rs 600 (US$110) in home con-
su,med output.  rhis is above the annual wages (Mau Rs 2,000) of an un-



skilled Government laborer and about equivalent to the annual wages (Mau
Rs 2,700) of full-time laborers on the sugar estates.
6.Oh      Fodder.  The fodder planting component will make available greater
and more assured supplies of fodder to village cow-keepers. Milk production
per cow is expected to increase by about 50%, and total milk production to
increase by 264,000 gallons annually, worth Mau Rs 430,000 (US$80,000). A
household owning one milking cow would gain an extra cash income of Mau
Rs 150 (US$28) as well as consume the milk equivalent to Mau Rs 50.
6.05      In the economic evaluation of these three components (for details
see Annex 12), the principal inputs and outputs were shadow valued as follows:
(a) Unskilled labor amployed by the DWC: Mau Rs 2.85 per day worked
for years 1-5, and full1 rate thereafter:
(b) Agricultural labor (mainly family): Mau Rs 2.00 per day for
years 1-5, and Mau Rs 3.00 per day thereafter; and
(c) Foreign exchange: the official rate plus a premium of 20%
toftake account of import duties and other trade taxes and
subsidies.
Forest products and various inputs were valued at international prices.  Agri-
cultural products were valued at domestic farm-gate prices, since the transport
and other distribution costs of such items as perishable fruits and vegetables
would make international price comparison not relevant.
6.06      On these assumptions, the estimated economic returns are as follows:
(a) afforestation, 8%: (b) bench terracing, 1h%; and (c) fodder planting, 13%.
The precise effect of the proposed (May 1973) rise in public sector wages on
the shadow price of labor is only conjecture at this date, especially in its
effect on wages among casual workers in the unorganized private sector.
Therefore, sensitivity analyles were carried out on the various returns assum-
ing this shadow wage were to rise 15% and 31% respectively (Annex 12 Table 1).
Bench terracing would be most affected, declining to 10% with a 31% shadow
wage increase.  If all items are valued at market prices prior to the proposed
wage increases in the public sector. the respective rates of return are 5%, 6%
and 11%.  With the proposed wage increase taken into account. these latter
rates would be h%, 5% and 10%.  These rates are not relevant from an economic
point of view. since they do not reflect the importance of unemployment in
the econoTy. The rates of return on the afforestation component is relatively
insensitive to large changes in costs and benefits. Other returns are more
sensitive to change especially to benefits. (Annex 12 Table 1).
6.07      Afforestation is an activity which has been shown to be successful
from a technical and organizational standpoint in Yauritius.  While the re-
turn on afforestation is only 8%, the benefit assumptions were conservatively
estimated and the environmental benefits of conservation were not quantified.
The other two activities, while technically feasible, represent new depart-
ures for Mauritius, and organization problems may arise in their implement-
ation. This is the reason for introducing these activities on a relatively
modest scale, while expanding the ongoing afforestation program. The latter's
economic return, while not high, is relatively insensitive to adverse con-
tingencies and roughly equals the opportunity cost of capital in Mauritius,
which is probably in the vicinity of 6-8%.



- 22 -
Village Improvemcrt
6.08      This: the largest component of tae Project, involves const'uction
of roads, community centers, village markets, and communal water taps, the
extension of additional health services, and a variety of self-help works.
It will result in a marked improvement in the physical condition of the
poorest villages and in their accessibility. Directly and indirectly, the
village improvement program will contribute to the productivity of villagers,
and to the quality of life in the village, an intangible but significant
benefit. An important consequence of making village life more productive
and attractive is that permanent migration of villagers to the Port Louis-
Cure Pipe urban axis would be reduced.
6.09      Road construction and improvement, with the resulting extension
of bus services and reductions in travel time, will allow villagera to seek
work further afield, and enable some to accept urban employment while con-
tinuing to live in the village. With better access to urban markets, small-
scale production of fruit, vegetables, and milk will be stimulated. Urban
services will be more accessible, and visits to the village by doctors, ex-
tension officers, etc., more easily obtained.
6.10      The provision of additional water taps will greatly reduce the
time presently spent by women queuing for water and carrying it long dis-
tances. In addition, an important benefit will be an increase in the per
capita supply of water which will bring per capita use to minimum standards
prescribed by WHO for household use and personal hygiene.
6.11      The construction of new and improved village centers will provide
a focal point for recreational and productive community activities. Village
centers are also the focus of educational programs such as sewing and handi-
craft classes, family planning programs and agricultural extension activities.
Production and marketing of products will be encouraged by the construction
of market centers; existing facilities are inadequate in hygiene, particularly
during wet weather.
6.12      The rural health centers to be constructed are part of an overall
program of extending and integrating existing health services so as to make
them more effective. Service~s are at oresent fragnented and in some cases
so overstrained as to be largely ineffective. The health centers will result
in a marked improvement in -he quantity and quality of health services readily
available to the villagers and may be increasingly used as a vehicle in the
family planning program whicin is being shifted from voluntary to Government
support.
6.13      Because of the complexities, interactions, and uncertainties in-
volved, and the fact that many of the benefits consist of non-marketed ser-
vices, no attempt has been made to quantify the benefits of the village im-
provement program, and hence no economic return has been calculated. However,
an attempt will be made, through the system of monitoring and evaluation de-
scribed in Annex 11, to assess ex post the impact of the program on various
welfare indicators, including income.



- 23 -
6.14      Lbrntnityfonstruction.  Project components were specif-
ically chosen for their labor-intensity. The afforestation component has a
labor requirement of 250 man days per acre compared to other IBRD projects
using 25 and 50 man days respectively per acre where machinery is used for
clearing. Road works using traditional construction methods and an abundant
supply of basaltic stone have a labor component of 40-45% of construction
costs which is more labor-intensive than normal Bank projects. In building
construction, the labor component in normal for Bank projects of this type
of building construction in developing countries where the work is generally
labor-intensive with the labor cost component at about 40%.
6.15      Employment and Training.l/Temporary and permanent job opportunities
in adult equivalents, created directly by the Project will be as follows:
Component                 Temporary Job Opportunities  Permanent Job Opportunities
Year 1               Year 2    Resulting from Investment
-     ----- adult man year equivalents /2 ---------
Bench terracing           1,600                1,600                   400
Fodder planting             500                   500
1_90                 2_ 200
Forestry                  1,900                2,200300
Village improvement       12400                 2,200                  300
TOTAL                5,400                6,500                1,000
When account is taken of the fact that about one-third of the DWC jobs will
be filled by Relief Workers, the net increase in employment in Year 2 of the
Project will be about 4,000 jobs. Based on available data, Government em-
ployment and training programs will be principally required for younger male
workers up to about 1980. After this, the growth of industry is expected to
be the principal source of new permanent employment.
6.16      The Project will provide training at various levels as well as
creating employment. Young, unskilled workers will receive training in such
trades as carpentry, pipelaying, masonry, and the repairing of vehicles,
equipment, and office machinery. Furthermore, by instilling work discipline
in ex-Relief Workers, DWC has be'en successful in rehabilitating many of these
men.
/1 In Addition the Project will create employment indirectly as additional
labor will be required by suppliers of goods and services to the DWC.
12 Since youths 16-20 years are paid 60% of the adult wage, Project cost
calculations were based on adult equivalent. But the actual number of
workers (youths and adults) needed under the Project would be 6,100 in
Year 1 and 7,400 in Year 2. These estimates exclude any allowance for
t,e 10% physical contingency.
tY The fodder component will enable presently underemployed villagers to
perform more productive work.
AL About 300 permanent jobs will be created for Years 1 through 22, and
about 600 during clearfelling in Years 23 through 26.



- 24 -
6.17      Foreign Exchange Earnings and Savings.  At full development, the
Project would save or earn the equivalent of US$510,000 in foreign exchange
annually.
6.18      Income Distribution.  The investments in infrastructure which com-
prise the village development program will benefit the inhabitants of the
poorest villages in Mauritius. The main beneficiaries of the bench terracing
and fodder planting will also be relatively poor people, viz smallholders,
previously landless households from the poorest villages, and village cow-
keepers. These people will benefit from being able to work more productively
through having greater access to land.
6.19      The temporary jobs created will be filled by men and youths currently
on the unemployment register or employed as Relief Workers. The income trans-
ferred, in the form of wage payments, to previously unemployed persons will
generally make for a more equal distribution of income. On the other hand,
transfer of Relief Workers to the DWC cannot be said to improve the distribu-
tion of income. The principal benefits of moving these men to the DWC are the
greater production that will ensue, a reduction in the number of persons seen
to be being paid for doing little work, and the rehabilitation of these men
through work discipline.
6.20      Other Benefits.  Although only a modest 1,000 acres are included in
the bench terracing component, a total of 13,500 acres of land capable of being
improved by terracing has been tentatively identified. The Project may thus
point the way to increasing the Island's arable area by 6%.
6.21      The Project has environmental benefits, viz the control of soil
erosion through terracing and the lessening of flooding in the Port Louis
area by the afforestation of the watershed slopes surrounding the city.
6.22      In addition to these benefits for Mauritius, the Project has a
number of experimental features which may generate useful experience with
this type of multi-sectoral rural development project. Only part of the
Project is justified by its contribution to production alone. The social
benefits of providing meaningful employment and improvement in village amen-
ities, in an environment of severe unemployment and wide income disparities,
is an integral part of t'.e Project.
6.23      Project Risks.  As discussed above (para 5.13), wage levels and
fringe benefits for DWC workers, although lower than in comparable Government
jobs or the organized private sector, are comparable with, and probably super-
ior to those prevailing in the small-scale and unorganized private sector.
Furthermore, the Government yill be under political pressure to raise the wages
of DWC workers, who oonstitute a large number of voters. There is thus a dan-
ger that the DWC will become a Preferred source of emolovmant  especially after
the most recent wage increase,its workers being reluctant to take jobs in the
private sector when these become available. A possible consequence is a bidding
up of private sector wages (or, what amounts to the same thing, a lowering of
the quality of labor in the private sector), particularly at periods of peak
demand. Also, if DWC provides attractive employment to a large work force, it
may be difficult for the Government to reduce its operations at a future date
when it is hoped, adequate private eamloyment will be available. An attempt
was made to minimize these risks through the assurances outlined in
paras. 5.12 and 5.13.



-25-
One way of minimizing these risks would be to recruit largely
from the Relief Workers and so avoid competing with the private sector.
However, to do so would be to simply shift workers from one activity to
another and so would not fulfill the objectives of adding to net employ-
ment and redistributing incomes.
VII. RECOMMENDATION4S
7.01      During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from Govern-
ment that it would:
(a) Allocate any new land brought into production through the
terracing program to landless households drawn from the
poorest 2O; of the rural population (para 3.04).
(b) Excise the areas to be afforested from the prevailing forest
concession agreement (para 3.07).
(c) Obtain from the Association approval for all plans and
specifications concerning the construction of the village
improvement corponen+.9 (para 3.09).
(d)  Ensure the adequate maintanance and staffing of the assets
created under the Project, providing necessary funds to local
Government authorities as and when necessary (para 3.G-).
(e) Provide additional finance to the Project in the event a
shortfall occurs due to any unsuccessful negotiation withi
agencies expected to provide parallel financial support to
tue Project (para 4.03).
(f) Ensure that all Project accounts would be audited by the
Directorate of Auditing or by other independent auditors
satisfactory to ID, with audited accounts to be submitted
to the !P.ssociation not later than six mont,s following tile
close of the financial year (para 4.(O6).
(g)  Establish and maintain a Rural DevelDpr.ent Committee of the
Gabinet consisting of representatives of Ministries concerned
with Rural Development under the chairmanshin of the Prime
Minister, which would have overall responsibility for coor-
dinating the Rural Development Program, establishinent of
criteria anid policy requirements, and consideration and approval
of specific development projects (para 5.02).
(rh) i.ppoirit a Project Manager to direct the Rural Development Unit
and be the Secretary of the Rural Developnent Conmittee.  His
qualifications, experience, terms and conditions of employment
would be mutually agreed between the Government and ID.~. (para 5.03).



(i)  Maintain a Rural Development Unit in the Ministry of Economic
Planning whose purpose would be to ensure cooperation between
the Ministries, agencies and authorities concerned, to appraise
and recommend specific development schemes for approval by the
Rural De-elopment Committee, and to monitor and evaluate the
impact of the Project (paras 5.03 and 5.04).
(j) Include in the membership of the Rural Development Unit a
Deputy Project Manager, and three Senior Village Development
Officers (para 5.03).
(k) Establish a small monitoring section in the RDU and utilize
qualified and experienced evaluation assistants under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association (para 5.04).
(1) Maintain in each of its Ministries of AgriculturA. works
Health, and Town and Country Planning, a Planning Unit whose
principal functions would include the preparation of Rural
Development Projects, which, after appraisal and recommendation
by the Rural Development Unit and approval by the Rural Develop-
ment Committee, would be suitable for execution by DWC and other
agencies as would be designated (para 5.05).
(m) Permit the Board of DWC to exercise full responsibility for
personnel administration (including appointment, dismissal,
discipline, terms and conditions of service), and enable the
General Manager of DWC to exercise his full executive powers
and authority in accordance with the provisions of the DWC
Act (para 5.09).
7.02      During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from DWC that it
would:
(a)  Strengthen its internal accounting and auditing proco,dures in-
a manner satisfactory to the Association (para i.o6).
(b) Appoint any replacement to the position of General Manager only
after the Board and the Association are in mutual agreement on
the suitability of his qualifications and experience for the
position and appoint a Deputy General Manager to take charge of
the daily execution of the Project within DWC. His qualifications
and experience would need to be satisfactory to DWC and the Assoc-
iation (para 5.10).
(c) Alter its hiring policy to employ new workers in the following
proportions: (i) not less than one-third from young males 16-
20 years; (ii) one-third from the rolls of the existing Relief
Workers; and (iii) the remaining from unemployed males 21-6t
years (para 5.11).
(d) Encourage its workers to actively seek permanent and temporary
jobs; ensure that any worker who accepts temporary employment
would be entitled to be reinstated to DWC employment within the
limits of available jobs; and discharge any worker who would not
accept employment on comparable wages and conditions (para 5.12).



- 27 -
(e) Maintain a wage rate structure for its unskilled employees
equivalent to not more than 78% of wages gazetted for un-
skilled Government workers (para 5.13).
(f) Organize and staff a training program satisfactory to the
Association (para 5.14).
7.03      The proposed Project is suitable for a credit of TJS$4.0 million
under standard IDA terms.
June 5, 1973
Rural Development Unit
Agriculture Department



Page 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EMPLOYMENT AND UNEMLOYMENT IN MAURITIUS
CURRENT POSITION AND PROSPECTS
I. THE CURRENT SITUATION
1.     Registered unemployment in Mauritius has increased in every year since
1960 (except the election year of 1968). From an average of about 2,000
persons in the early 1960s, regiatrations grew to 8,000 by 1965, to 31,000
by 1971 and to an average of 36,000 persons in the first 9 months of 1972.
These large increases have occurred despite Government efforts to provide
relief work for adult males in the public sector. Beginning from roughly
1,000 work places in 1963 (w4en the Relief Worker Scheme was introduced),
18,500 persons were employed:_ as Relief or as Development Works Corporation
workers during the first 9 months of 1972. Thus, the growth of registered
unemployment and numbers on the public works payroll taken together, indicate
a very considerable worsening in the degree of imbalance in the labor market
in the past few years.
2.     For a number of reasons, however, the statistical indicators are ambiguous
or defective and must be treated with great caution. Government in Mauritius
has tended to use the Unemployment Register in hiring additional clerical and
manual labor and length of time on the Register is used to select among those
registered. Check procedures to ensure that those registered are indeed
unemployed are ineffective so that of those registered in hope of obtaining a
government job, a large number could in fact be gainfully employed.
Table 1: REGISTERED UNEMPLOYMENT AND RELIEF WORK
Annual Averages
Registered               Relief + DWC
Unemployment                 Workers                     Total
1960/62             2,700                       Nil                       2,700
1963/64             5,200                     1,500                       6,700
1965/66            11,200                     4,800                      16,000
1967               14,200                    22,000                      36,200
1968                9,100                    16,500                      25,600
1969               14,300                     14,700                     29,000
1970               21,000                     15,800                     36,800
1971               31,000                    18,500                      499,500
1972               35,700                     18, 50Q                     54,200
/1 January-September average.
Source: Ministry of Employment



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Furthermore, compared to the alternatives, government work offers modest but
competitive wages, relatively attractive amenities and fringe ,nefits and a
considerable measure of regularity and security of employment J- Even for
Relief and Development Corporation workers, also recruited directly or in-
directly through the Unemployment Register, wages and conditions are comparable
with, and possibly superior to, those common in the small-scale and unorganized
private sector. Thus, there is a powerful incentive to register as unemployed
on the part of those seeking a government job* There is little to prevent many
employed persons from registering, and government jobs are widely sought after.
3.     A good deal of the recorded unemployment may, therefore, be little more
than an expression of dissatisfaction with existing employment opportunities,
rather than reflecting their absence. Even the strong upward trend in the
statistics of registered unemployment in the 1960a may have been heavily
influenced by more optimistic assessments of the chances of obtaining work with
government through registration, following the introduction .of relief (and
latterly, Development Works Corporation) recruitment over this period.
4.     Despite these caveats however, the situation indicated by the statistics
of registered unemployment is supported by the preliminary results from the
1972 Census. In fact Census unemployment, at 40.9 thousand persons is above
Registered unemployment of 34.6 thousand persons at the same period. Similarly,
while Census unemployment has not risen as fast as Registered unenployment, the
increase (from 23.7 to 40.9 thousand) over the 10-year period is, nevertheless,
very considerable. A comparison of employment and unemployment data from the
Census is shown in Table 2.
5.     Growth of labor force was more moderate at 2.4% per4 annum than had been
expected earlier, due mainly to emigration among population groups of prime
working age (some of which may not have been fully recorded in the intercensal
period). The growth of employment however, at only 1.8% per amnum is very poor
especially since half of this is accounted for by the expansion of Relief and
Development Worker programs. In sum, these statistics suggest that without
these programs the economy would have absorbed only one-third of the increase in
labor force - a condition that would surely guarantee social upheaval if
indefinitely left unchecked. (See Table 2).
1/ The latter are important considerations in all less developed countries,
but particularly so in Mauritian circumstances where historically the
indentured labor system, associated with the development of plantation
agriculture, has greatly limited any tradition of self-reliance through
individual enterprise.



Ar' I.;:Y I
wi.;e 3
Table 2:  'zLC":c:.T ALD A fl:ED0Y:'_ 
1962 AUD 1972 C- :.USU  DATA
Growth %
per annum over
1962           1972           10-year period
1.  Total Labor Force            197.000        214 8,90            2.4
Employ=ent                173,400        208,000             1.8
excluding P2elief/
DWC Work               (173,403)      (187,li0o)           (0.8)
Unemploy=ent               23,700         40,900              5.6
% unemployed               12.0           16.4
2. Adult Males (21 and over)
Labor Force               135,300        161,200              1.8
Employment                125,200        147,500             1.7
excluding Rellef/
DIC Work               (125,200)      (126,900)            (0.1)
Unemployment               10,100         13,700              3.1
% unemployed                ?.5            ,5
3. Young Males (15-20)
Labor Force                25,300          38,500             4.3
Employment                 16,700         18,200              0.9
Unemployment                8,6oo         20,300              9.0
% unemployed               34.o           52.7
4. Females
Total Labor Force           36,500         49,300             3.1
Employment                  31,50G         42,300             3.0
Unemployment                5,000           7,000             3.4
V0 unemployed              13.?           14.2
Source: Census data, 1962 and 1972.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
6.     It will be recalled that the Relief and Development Worker programs
have been aimed exclusively at adult males. It is not surprising therefore,
to find from the census data that the unemployment rate among young men 1/ has
risen particularly fast from 34% to an almost unbelievable 53%--the latter
surely among the highest rz.tes for this particular group anywhere in the
world. More surprising, however, is that despite Relief Worker programs,
unemployment among adult males also increased from 7 to 8%. Excluding the
Reiief programs, these data indicate that employment among adult males
elsewb're in the economy increased by a meagre 1,700 jobs - or only 0.1% per
annuml! Finally, the surprisingly strong employment situation among women
is worth noting; while the unemployment rate at 14  in 1972 is still very high,
ctr.ployment increaaed at 3.0% per annum, over the 10-year period.
7.     Some additional light is thrown on these disparate trends by a con-
s1leration of the survey of employment among large-scale enterprises (10
ei.i.oyees and over), undertaken since March, 1966. Between March, 1966 and
M4rch, 1972, recorded employment among establishments enuierated in the surveys
i.ereased from 104,000 to 18,300 persons (i.e. at an average rate of 2.1%
per annum over the 6-year period). Assume employment in this sector to have
grr-wn more slowly during the 4 years 1962-1966 - say at 1% per annum (indications
ar2 Fhe employment growth quickened at the end of the 1960s and early 1970s).
nrW:. Table 3 suggests a strong likelihood that employment in the small-scale
;cr was declining over this period, due to a rapid decrease in male employment.
Table 3: SM.AL AID LARGE SCALE SECTORS EMPLOYMENT,
1962-1972
1962      (Males)         1972        (Males)
.     -scale sector  100,000    ( 77,300)       118,300    C 92,600)
M 'U)evelopmeant
Nril         -           i8,500    (18J500)
ic.>e sector        73,400    ( 64,600)        69,100    ( 52,509)    _
173,4s00    (141,900)     205.900    (163.600)
II.  PROSPECTS IN THE 1970s
Underlying the failure of the economy to provide adequate employment
. i tiss has been the extreme dependence on sugar in Mauritian agriculture,
b tir gr.)wing already uses very labor-intensive methods, so that the
c zom~rption of any additional workers is next to impossible. Thus, the
i  The5e data exclude young males in secondary end other types of school.
:,'3'Lnce the number of regular government male employees increased by roughly
o,Cr   from 1962-1972, private sector male employment actually declin d by
over 4,000 from 1962 to 1972. By 1972, about one-third of employed adult
es SS-,    ,tAXj_,,W,.l ,,~          ,      



Page 5
labor force (like producticn) in the sugar industry was no higher in 1972 than it
had been 10 years earlier. Since sugar accounted for nearly 4O% of all employment
opportunities in 1962, the burden in terms of needed future job creation on
the rest of the economy was clearly very great. In turn, the failure to
support this burden during the decade has resulted in the even more critical
situation of the early 1973s.
9.     The 1971-1975 Four-Year Plan marks the beginnings of a major new effort
to respond to the very formidable problems of the Mauritian economy. The
strategy calls for a massive diversification program, based on new incentive
provisions, and, in the context of a very much faster rate of economic growth
and investment, an extremely rapid expansion of new job opportunities in
industry. In total, the Plan looks for the creation of new jobs, exclusive
of Relief/bevelopment Worker programs, at an average rate of 4.1% per annum
from 1969 to 1975. For 1975-1980, when the industrialization effort is fully
underway, employment growth at 5.7% per annum is projected.
10.    On the basis of the extremely unpromising past peformance, these targets
were clearly very ambitious; nevertheless, between 1969 and 1972, in the largar-
scale sector, as enumerated in the surveys of employment, a good start was made,
with employment growing during these three years at 3.5% per annum. Stimulated
by the new incentives (especially the export enterprise incentives), industrial
employment grew particularly rapidly at 13% per annum. Current short-run fore-
casts, based on industrial applications already received and approved, suggest
for this sector that Plan targets will be more than achieved. The initial
Plan target of 10,000 jobs by 1975 has already been raised to 1,000.  In
addition to industrial employment itself, there are very considerable opportuni-
ties in the construction sector as the accommodation needs of the new industries
(as well as those of new commercial enterprises and hotels) and the large
Cbvernment Investment program are met. For example. to construct some 8,000
industrial workplaces in industrial estates by 1975 (of which the
largest share would be in the  IDA-financed site at Lower Coromandel), it is
estimated that about 10,000 man-years of construction labor will be called for.
11.    Optimism in regard to some major sectoral targets is, however, more than
offset by consideration of the likely failure in regard to agriculture. Plan
estimates include an increase of 16,000 jobs in agriculture. But for agriculture,
any measurable increase in employment will be very small, partly because of the
inherently difficult task of finding any new potential for job creation given
the dominance of sugar in land use, and, perhaps more important, because
additional income-generating activities in agriculture are much more likely to
result in a reduction o. underemployment than in new job creation. Finally, it
does not seem likely that either of the major irrigation schemes under considera-
tion (Northern Plains, and Western Coast Region) will provide any incremental
employment benefits in the first Plan period.



ANNI I.
Page 6
12.    On balance, our estimate is that employment in the larger-scale
sector, mainly under the impetus of more rapid industrial growth, will
increase by 4.0% per annum 1972-1975. For the small-scale sector, it seems
likely that the expansion in construction activity and tourism will generate
:avorable eflfects among small firms, resulting in some overall growth, which
we estimate at 2% per annum. In total, beginning from the 1972 Census
estimates, we expect employment in 1975 to attain a level of 207 thousand,
excluding Relief and Development Worker programs. However, growth of labor
force is now almost certainly more rapid than for much of the 1960s, mainly
because of demographic factors. We allow for continuation of emigration on
a limited scale (1,000 working adults per annum), but still e.pect labor
force to grow at 3% per annum, so that by 1975 the total would rise to 272
thousand. Under these assumptions, unemployment would rise from the current
level of 40.9 thousand to 65 thousand, giving an unemployment rate of 24%.
This calculation strongly suggests that the continuation of the Relief/Develorment
Worker programs is essential, at least through the first Plan period. With
Relief/Development Worker programs maintained at the current level of about
21,000 jobs, our projections indicate that 1975 unemployment would be 44,000
persons, slightly increasing in absolute terms. In percentage terms, tne rate
of unemployment wo-ld be unchanged at 16%.
13.     The Rural Development Project would help by sustaining tihe existing
Relief Work programs, and in addition, by providing approximately 4,000 neL
extra job opportunities by 1975. Given these additional opportunities, un-
employment should be at least contained to its present level and the unemploy-
ment rate would fall slightly to 14.7%. In addition, a start would be made
through the new program in providing jobs and training for unemployed youth,
among whom open unemployment is currently most severe. A final consideration
is that many of the employment opportunities currently resulting from tne
industrial boom, as well as many of those to be foreseen in the near future,
are opportunities for women. This is mainly because thus far, most of the
larger enterprises to be attracted have been textile establishments. The
additional employment opportunities for men provided through the proposed project,
wouli also for this reason be particularly welcome in the immediate future.
14.    The next few years are clearly going to be an extrenely testing time
for the new strategy as a whole, both in determining the longer-term success
of the industrialization effort and in surmounting the short term unemployment
crisis. These considerations are themselves directly linked in a number of
ways - not least through investors confidence, given that Mauritius initially
must of necessity rely a great deal on foreign capital and industrial know-how.
Thus, the short-term stop-gap importance of the Rural Works Employment Scheme
is likely to be of even greater significance than initially foreseen by Govern-
ment given the slower start in overall employment creation, and higher initial
level of unemDloyment in 1972.
_~~=7~n ', *     . '.            '_ '    * ' r N   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _,;_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .- , , _>  . ,



Darn 3
III.  WAGE AND T) IkWLMNT POLI`' ISSUES
15.     Given the poor overall performance of the NIauritian economy
in the 1960s, it wou2d be surprising if Government had not felt obliged to
attemrpt to buffer th-. labor market from the full force of the ineCvtabLe re-
percussions.  As i. often the case, however, reaction to Govern'nenT, init-iatiyive,
both from employers and from employees, influenced the outcome in ways ror. fully
intended or foreseen by the legislators.  Here we consider briefly certaXin
policy issues rf continuing imortance in the 1970s, and parbicularly relevant
to the Rura-` Levelopment Project.
Wage Policy
i6.     With labor becoming increasingly plentiful during th.e 1?dOs, pressare
on t.Ae real wage from competition betwe-en workers for the available jobs tended
to resalt.  To offset this pressure, or as counterweight to is, GoverrLmenz
beca.me inrcreacLngly active in the direct regulation of wages, partiula:rly
e'±ecting larger-scale enterprises.  The most 4,mportant actions wer  `!-n in
regard to the sugar industry, initially in 1963, with the fixing o' a sta, tory
wage rate substantially in excess of previous negotiat8d rated, followsd uy
further awards in 1968, in 1971 and 1972.   For daily paid
laborers, increases following tile 19o2 award compounded to a to.al of 295,
by June, 1972 (i.e. 2.6-%i per arnum or, average).  Statutory orders 'cr other
sectors werH also introduced through the sixties (using the instrtLmentali.nty of
a Wages Council System).J/ Finally, Government announced a general 12i iarcrease
with effect from November, 1971.
17.     Government is well avare of the conflict or potential conflist
between wage fixing and Job creation. In fact, despite regulation, tne reai
wage probably fell in many sectors - including Government itseLf where no gener.L
increases were granted before the recent general 12% award.  Thus, the cost of
living from the first half of 1962 until  the first half of 1972 rose by 2.2!
per annum or 214; over the decade as a w,ole. During the last year for wh-ch
data are avallable - Jlne 1971-June 1972 - the rate of increase acceleratecd to
vs.  The enforcement of the regulations has not been pued with great energy in
the small-scale enterprises least anle to pay. Finally, attempts are made in
miany Wage Orders to preserwe differentials based on market forces - for iniv.Eice,
lower rates of pay for womeni or young pecple.2- On the wnole though, Go\-rcnment.
philosophy has been that those employers able to pay or maintain relatively 'Ziifn
wages should be made to pay them; in Government's view marginal employment,
creation foregone in the process is more than compensated in farily incoume terms
by the maintenance of decent incomes for those who do obtain work, espezc.al;- sInce
a large part of the population operates within an extended family situatiLro.
1/ The most important orders are those governlng Commercial TradiLg entepr`..:ses
(1963), Bus Transport (1966), Building Trade  (1968), Hotels and Resta'raas
(196:3), and for private secondary school teachers (19'3) and female factory
workers (1968).
2/ Nevert'leless, between April, 1966 an(i March, 1972 emplymernt recorded i. T..:;
twlcs-yearly Employment Surveys among thot.o unier 18  ell frcon 6, 5X) to .
4,000.



ANNEX 1
Pageo
18.     Applied in moderation to carefully selected sectors, it is probable
that Government action along these lines has no great adverse effect on
employment creation in those sectors. Moreover, such action may be politically
essential; no Government could expect to survive for long a combination of
continuous rising unemployment and falling real wages, without taking direct
action of some kind.  The dangers are, however, that a relatively small group
is allowed to establish and subsequently to strengthen a position of privilege
vr -a-vis other workers or potential workers. Tne problems compound when
Sd,;:i groups and others increasingly look towards Governrent to solve various
problems, not all as sitrple as low wages.  For example, with jobs at a premium
a:n  job holders privileged, the incentive is strong for workers to seek added
protection and job secarity througi Government regulation. The result can be
excessive curtailment of management functions, and an increasingly rigid or
non-responsive market mechanism as inefficiency is not penalized and merit goes
unrewarded.  The effects on attitudes of job seekers, especially young people,
, f artLficially maintained wage differentials between those inside and those
:-utsile the privileged group, are also importaant. Too often such differentials
e.zourage young people to avoid suon jobs as may readily oe available in hopes of
get,ting inore attractive but less available alternatives, while in tne meantime
th'By remain idle for ex+ensive periods.
1 .     Problems associated with an administered wage structure and general
- 'i:;r:.t regulaation are tNecoming more apparent in Mauritius.  Among young
;}   !--there ij certainly .a terdency to avoid low skill manual work in the
sector, espec _zaI.y agricualtural work, partly because rewards elsewhere
ar: s -1fic ntly higher partly also because, in the public sector, the effort
re -X r vi -s less, and job s3ec.rity (once a job is folnd), is very consideraole.
- .ixlu'y, among adult workers the apparent shortage of labor in some sectors
, e extensive  anrpoymer. argues the importance of special factors in job
T.,e complex situation ;revailing in respect of 'he hiring of labor
:h- suaar esu       J .mediJun-scalc. pILinters coserves special i>etition. As
~. .e rJ :D. ;    s o 't. re6s glat  wages and workiAng conditions in this
"  lsargely de-casualized in the early 1.9C),s and to
o;: .*So ew3Sonal unemployment, employers were required to hire
`'ose working d0% or mcre of the harvesting aays.
c'/i^ :zoTh>-es, the effect of the latter provisior is to provide
-i <- w zneiie to avoid -hring any additional harvesLtI -        ;
"o-".  t;.an 0   o  th,e full har%esting period so as to mlnirize the
, # A tr    '-'O'mi; e~r. on rt.  ThI ^onseouonce, job opportLnitiec available
_*   :.'ostLg prpax pe rio   arc'  ite  limited in duration, and the demand
i' Lg labor is niore peakea tharn it would be otherwise.
e-rson r-gisterel as une-nplo,jed consicuring a h.'Arvesting job on
....; 'S c  there is a trade-off ilroblem between a short period of w-ork
,: _Sr.. -nd tne loss of prioriTy on the Unemployment Register, and
- - s. thle possiblTh loss of a government job.  All employees are, in
-   * ;   '  * z  .' *> >  ,    >   L  Va   C  e .   ,  ~  r    r   .  .  -    :   -    :



JU.IZ1A L
pageg
principle, furnished with Employment cards, to be marked by employers
whenever employment is provided. The card is supposed to be available to
the Employment Exchange in cases where an qplican't registerm or re-registers
as unemployed. The card system is now under review, partly because small
employers can disregard the card so allowing their employees to continue to
register as unemployed ( the advantage to employers often being payment of
below statutory minimum wage rates). The records of the larger planters and
estates however are open to Ministry inspection and there the card system
is generally observed. In consequence, these planters experience perennial
difficulties in recruiting marginal requirements of labor while the smaller
unregulated planters do not. Ministry of Employment reports for the 1972
harvest period show of 2,000 racancies notified by the estates to the
Employment Exchanges, that only 300 had been filled by registered applicants.
Of the 7,000 registered unemployed persons notified of these vacancies, about
6,000 either declined or ignored the notification.
22.     Of course, wage structures and employment policy measures provide only
very partial explanations of phenomena like those described above. For example,
young men, with little or no opportunities for better types of employment with
government or elsewhere, are still notoriously reluctant to cut sugarcane,
even on a temporary basis. Factors like the strong non-vocational and academic-.!
bias to the education system and the cultural inheritance of low status
(associated with past memories of the indentured labor system in the cane fields),
are no doubt ultimately more important in creating a strong aversion to work on
sugar estates or, sometimes, in agriculture more generally. The poor nutritional
conditions on the island also result in many young men reaching "working age"
without the physique or stamina for sugarcane cutting on a full-day basis.
Factors like these are hard to change, perhaps impossible in any short space of
time. Even so, it becomes doubly important that factors within the range of
short-run policy pull in the right direction.
IV. THE PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAMS FOR RELIEF AND DEVELOPMENT
WORKERS
23.     These programs are the second arm of the employment and wage policies
pursued by government in the periods of the 1960s and 1970s. The earlier pro-
gram of Relief work, begun in 1963, quickly expanded from 1,000 persons to more
1/ In 1970 there were 22,000 students aged 15 and above attending general
secondary schools; facilities for secondary level training students in
manual trades would allow for 600 persons.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
than 30,000 at the peak in 1968.  At that time Relief Workers were paid 4
rupees per day and were given 3 days work per week. From the beginning, it
proved difficult to organize these workers for productive employment parti-
cularly as they were allocated across a wide range of Ministries and public
bodies, and were working on a part-time basis. The notorious lack of disci-
pline, work effort and performance generally which are characteristic of
this progr4n, therefore, soon became established. Ostensibly for budgetary
reasons, the program was cut to 15,000 in 1968 and thereafter gradually
allowed to decline until the middle of 1970, when recruitment recommenced.
Following transfers to the Development Works Corporation of roughly 5,000
workers, the current total for numbers of Relief Workers is now some 12,000
employed on a six day basis at 5.04 rupees per day. Government is likely to
raise this to 6.60 rupees per day.
24.     The 'Travail Pour Tous' or 'Work for All' program administered and
executed by the Development Works Corporation combines a new grouping of
public works programs under one management, and, in effect, represents an
attempt at a fresh start, following the initial experiense with the Relief
Worker programs. Some of the same elements are also present here, at least
on the labor policy side. Thus, while Development Workers are nominally paid
less than other government manual workers and below rates ruling in the organized
private sector, in real terms, partial compensation is afforded throughi a
superior food component to the wage (supplied through USAID), through free
transport to and from the workplace, and Saturday working is compensated as a
full day although only worked as a half day.-/ Probably more important, however,
is the virtual embargo an di.smissal for any action short of gross misconduct
(although a system of suspension for varying periods has been used to some
extent). In sum, thus far, the DWC has provided a limited number of additional
jobs in the public sector (though very few, since ex-Relief Workers have mostly
been hired), at terms and conditions not greatly inferior to those in the public
sector generally. (A comparison of wages is shown in Table 4).
25.     The disadvantages in pursuing this policy are firstly that workers are
encouraged to believe that DWC is permanent work, and given this feeling of
job security, few are anxious to seek other opportunities in the private sector.
In addition, since the work force is retained on a semi-permanent basis,
relatively few unemployed persons are exposed to the benefits of at least some
period of work experience. The concept of DWC as providing temporary workplaces
for a large number of people ('Work for All') is therefore non-operative under
the present arrangements. Finally, DWC has so far maintained the traditional
recruitment policy of hiring only those aged 21 and over.
1/ Elements of the DWC wage are more fully described in Annex 3



ANNEX 1
Page 11
26.     Some of the elements of a different labor policy for the DWC
programs, however, have been accepted by government, most notably in regard
to hiring of yjuths and an increased training element. Already, DWC is
using available training facilities for trade testing and skill acquisition,
often to greater extent than the private sector. Extension of these faci-
lities would be very appropriate in a program which opens hiring to those
aged 16 and above.



APPENDIX 1
LAL01--'~~~~~~ 00l h 
'I;-, 1,  Cer!FIs            Perzc, 'xz
.......... Rupees per day.
1. Sumar Estates:
Field lab%w-ers         Class  I    8.145        4.25                3.60
Class 1I    7.00        3.60
Factory Wor>ers         Class  I    7.38                    (lWaJe)   3.56
(Sugar Factories)       Class 1I    6A6
2.  Xetail Trade:
(minimnui ra'es)
Experienced                          8.83        6.89       (l533
lst Year                             6.30        Ita74        ae   (2.80
3.  W4holesale Trade:
Laborers                             6.72
4.  Petrol Ptv, Attendant)                  538         4o         Oal)   3.66
Cleaner               )                5.3         '.9        (Feniale) 2.&0
5. ConstrucJticrn Tt%R'1t~~:
Unskilled               Class  I    5.88                             4.1
Class II    4.70
6. Factoiy Workers:
Large fir,s (15 enployecs or more)  N.A.         3.36
Other firis                           N.A.       2.69
7.  Tea Estates:               Class  I    5.50         3.25
Class II    4.50
8.  Farastatal body
(minimnwn)                             6.A6
9.  Private Manufacturing Firm (average) 6.00
10.  Government   -  Minimum                 6.27
Maxirum               6.72
11.  DWtC/Rclief Workers                     5.04
1/  The effect of the proposed (May 1973) Public Sector wage increase is not
reflected in this table.  Also, no attempt is made to allow for the effect
of more or less generous fringe benefits in these figures.  Paid annual
leave (12 days) is general in all sectors, but is not granted to DWC workera4_
Paid sick leave is also common.
Source: Wage Council Minimum Wage Awares and Data supplied by the Employers
Federation of Mauritius.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MATIRITI US
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT WORKS CORPORATION (DWC)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Development Works Corporation, established as a corporate
body in 1970 is the largest single corporate employer on the island. Cur-
rently DWC provides jobs for 6,500 people. This is projected to double to
around 13,000 by June 1975, amounting to 5% of a total estimated 1975 work-
force of 272,000 on the island. This workforce would be drawn entirely from
the rolls of the Relief Workers and from the Register of Unemployed. DWC's
current activities cover labor-intensive construction projects in a>±Z.'zulture,
forestry, school classrooms, roads, fodder plantings and public buildings
(Annex 1, page7). DWC's budget in FY 197? is estimated to be about l1% of
the total public sector capital expenditure for that year.
tI. RACKGROUD
2.        Government Unemployment Relief Measures (1963-1972Y.  The Govern-
ment, as early as 1963, began taking measures to deal with the unemployment
problem.  Initially, 1,000 unemployed men were hired as Relief Workers and
assigned to various Ministries and agencies to carry out simple maintenance
work for three days a week. By 1967, the Relief Workers Scheme, as this pro-
gram was then called, had grown to 30,000 (over 15% of the work force). By
1973, the Government reduced this program to 12,000 males.  The scheme was
not a success as most Ministries were not organized to manage and control
large groups of unskilled workers or had the capacity to design productive
labor-intensive projects to employ these laborers. Thus little work was done,
the scheme became costly and embarrassing to Government and the workers them-
selves became demoralized.
3.        To replace this scheme, a program called "Travail Pour Tous" (TPT)
was organized in 1970. The major differences between TKP and the Relief Work-
ers Scheme were that under TPT:  (1) construction and other new investments,
rather than maintenance work would be carried out; and (2) the workers would
be centrally managed by a newly created Development Works Corporation (JIWC)
rather than dispersed among the Ministries.  From 1971 to date, DWC has been
successful in managing what by now has become 6,50o TPT workers (mostly form-
er Relief Workers) and in organizing productive work for them. However, when
projects are completed by DWC and turned over to Ministries who are charged
with staffing and maintenance, major problems arise as this transfer stage
often is the first time these Ministries had official knowledge that such pro-
jects had been undertaken. In planning for future expansion, however, - major
uncertainty has become the ability of Government agencies to generaL  a suf-
ficient volume of worthwhile productive activities, without a considerable
strengthening of the planning capability of the Ministries.



AMiEX 2
Page 2
III. OBJECTIVES
4.        The Development Works Corporation (DWC) was created with the pur-
pose of taking "...such steps as may be appropriate for the better utiliza-
tion of the labor resources of Mauritius, and, wherever expedient for the
unidertaking of development works."  Tne 1970 Act was amended in 1971 to shift
the DWC from the purview of the Prime Minister's office to a newly created
Ministry of Employment.
5.        To fulfill this purpose, DWC's main effort is focussed on the ex-
ecution of the "Travail Pour Tous"/TPT (Work for All) Program. TPT is given
top priority in the 1971-1975 Four-Year Plan. As stated therein, TPT's main
obiectives are:
(a)  To provide work to unemployed family breadwinners;
(b)  To eliminate growing under-employment;
(c)  To capitalize surplus labor into productive projects; and
(d)  To create a suitable social and political environment enabling
the Government to execute consistent policies leading to long-
term economic opportunities for the policies leading to long-
term economic future labor force.
TPT was designed as a transitional scheme to replace the current
:?lief Work  ."  The men employed in DWC would be absorbed into job oppor-
-ut-ties opened up as a result of the various pro ects (public and private)
_;dertaken under the 4-year plan.  The Plan states that 'FT would "wither
a'JCiy after a few years tnrough the creation of employment opportunities
which are at least as remunerative, including of course, public sector in-
a.3iment projects employing workers at the going wage rate."
-        As a basic principle, the Plan states that TPT workers would be
. on proects meeting the following criteria:
(a)  Tz create investment which is immediately productive, but
which would not justify the labor 4input required if labor
were scarce.
(b)  To create investment which will result in increased produc-
tion only after some years.
(e)  To carry out public works which will only make a limited con-
tribution to the production of goods and services with a cash
value, but which will result in a considerable improvement in
the basic amernties available to the population.
IV.  ORGANIZATION
i1.       The most critical task facing DWC since 1971 was devising an organ-
izational structure suited to the management of large numbers of workers, many
whio had never worked regularly in their life times. DWC introduced a four



ANNEX 2
Page 3
tiered system of structured delegation and accountability which has worked
well to date. Basically, workers are organized in groups (called gangs) of
20. Each group of twenty is supervised directly by a gangman. These gang-
men are accountable to an Overseer, who in turn is accountable to an Inspector
and Senior Inspectors. For FY 1973, posts included:
Senior Inspectors                           12
Inspectors                                   24
Overseers                                   81
Gangmen                                     345
Workers                                  6,500
9.        DWC also maintains a fairly extensive adrlnistrative and technical
&upport staff.  This staff is supplemented, especially on
the engineering side, with bilateral support from India. Additional technical
aid has been requested from the UK.
10.       While the delegation of authority is clear at lower levels, it is
muddled at the policy levels. The DWC Act is clear on the delineation of
policy and operating authorities between the Minister, the Board, the Chair-
man and the General Manager. In practice, this delineation has not been
rigorously observed, with the Minister acting as a Chairman and the Chair-
man as General Manager. The General Manager thus finds himself increasingly
in an uncomfortable position. As part of the Project, these policy and
operating authority distortions would be clarified and followed more rig-
orously than in the recent past.
11.       At middle management levels, DWC would be strengthened under the
Project with bilateral technical assistance support. As DWC continues to
expand the number of sites (now standing at 212), correct material and equip-
ment scheduling is required if site labor is not to be idled. Such manage-
ment and production scheduling skills are scarce in Mauritius External
assistance would be needed for at least two years. DWC has approached the
Overseas Development Agency of the UK for such operating assistance and
negotiations are currently underway.
Man Years and Costs
(US$1000)
Category                                  FY 1974                 FY 1975
No.  Local  Foreign    No.  Local  Foreign
Management Control Analyst          1      5.0   25.0       1      5-°    25.0
Total



ANNIX j
Page  i
12.       DWC currently employs h technicians from India to strengthen its
engineering, agricultural and forestry programs. The men in place have been
particularly effective. hegotiations are underway between the Indian and
Mauritian Governments to extend these contracts and to expand somewhat the
number of specialists provided by the Indian Government to DWC.
Man Years and Costs
JS$ 000)
Category                                   FY 19714                 FY 1975
No.  Local  Foreign    No. Local  Foreign
ELngineers                            2    10.0    30.0       3    15.0    45.0
Forestor                             1      5.0    15.0       1      5.0    15.0
Agriculturists                        1     5.0    15.0        2    10.0    0.G
Total                           1    20.0    6                30.0    80.0
V. TRAINING
(See also Annex 7 Training of Village Development Officers)
A. Unskilled to Semi-SkIlled Manpower Training
13.       DWC is currently undertaking an increasing amount of training, both
on-site and at the ILO sponsored Industrial Trade Training Center in Mauritius
where DWIC sernds selected workers for intensive three week courses as brick-
layers, carpenters and plumbers. DWC provides on-site training in work dis-
cipline for unskilled laborers.  Currently DWC is orgarizing a number of pilot
projects designed to indrease the number of scarce skills in such fields as
masonry, pipelaying and vehicle and equipment repair.  As jobs under the Pro-
ject for young mnale workers are created, these training programs in key scarce
semi-skills (mechanics, carpenters, plumbers, pipelayers, surveyors' helpers,
drivers, etc.) would be expanded. These skills will be in increasing demand
as industrialization and tourist building requirements grow. For adult males,
training would focus on the building trades, and basic agricultural skills
such as kitchen garden and dairy coiw management as well as encouraging the
formeaion of regular work habits.
B. Clerical
14.       Equally important would be DWC's current effort to recruit and train
secondary school graduates in basic bookkeeping, typing, filing, calcul2ting
and office procedures. DWC is also anYious to begin a program of work in com-
puter operation emphasizing skills in keypunching and simple programming oper-
ations.  Early experimnents in this clerical hiring and training were successful
with 606 of the current workforce turning over each year due to the labor force
demands for this type of skill by banks, offices and expanding industry.
C. Training Staff
15.       To ensure the training element is given sufficient attention, a
separate department reporting to the General Manager would be formed (see DWC



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Organization Chart - Chart 2). Initially most of its staff would have to be
recruited externally, either through ILO or from bilateral agencies. DWC is
currently making an application to France for the 2-3 year secondment of 'mon-
itors", men skilled as "foremen instructors" who work directly with the men
they are teaching. The recommended training staff skill mix, phasing and
estimated costs are as follows:
DWC Training Department
(US$'0oo0)
Fiscal Year- 1974      Fiscal Year 1975
No. Local  Foreign    No. Local  Foreign
Head of Department                  1      5.0    25.0      1     5.0    25.0
Monitors
Carpentry                         -     -        -
Masonry (concrete & dry wall)    1       5.0    15.0      1     5.0    15.0
Plumbing & Pipelaying             -      -       -
Office Machinery & Conputer
Software                         1     5.0    20.0       1     5.0    20.0
Vehicle & Equipment Repair        1     5.0    15.0       1     5.0    15.0
Agriculture                       -      -       -
Total                          I    20.0    75.0      4    90.0    75.O
D. Managerial
16.       Training fellowships for short-term courses and study visits to
other countries having relevant rural public works programs would also be
o.,anized. Staff from the Rural Development Unit would also be included
in these visits.
Overall Costs
(US$ low)
Fiscal Year 1974        Fiscal Year 1975
No.  Cost              No. Cost
Short courses/Study visits          3    15.0               6    30.0
Travel                              -     5-°               -    10.0
Total                          3    20.0                    4 0.0



ANNEX 2
Page
VI.. DWC WAGES
1.7.      DW1  workers receive their wages in both cash and kind.  A detailed
estimate of these current wages (cash and kind) is made below.
Financial Cost of DW: Unskilled Labor
Current       Proposed
Number of paid days per annum:                     May 1973       (plus 31%)
Maximu5n (52 x 6)                                312
Less days lost through absenteeism,
unpaid leave, etc.  Say,                        12
300
Days paid but not worked per annum:
(a) Paid public holidays                          22
(b) Paid sick leave.  Say,                         5
(c) Time lost through early cessation
of work on Saturdays                        17
Total                 44
Days actually worked per annum (300-4a):              256
Wage per paid day                            Mau  Rs 5.04-          6.60
W1age per day at<>uallY worked
(  x g.CI)                         Mau Rs  5,90            7.50
1 Work ceases three nours early each Saturday; hence, 3/  o£ each sixth
day ren!,i.:ing (after deduction of public holidays and sick leave) is
los3t.
Taken over the full year, a DnA worker would earn the equivalent of
. ..ut ,    . sone 1JS   over what is required to maintain a family with a
"r4nlrmum nutritional diet. This would rise about US$90 if the proposed Public
.zt..r wage increase is imple mTnted.



Annex 2
AP?UDU 1
MAURITIUS
RtURAL DEVELOP]:IE'T PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT I'MT'S, CORPORATION
Fiscal Years
Rupees Million
Category                                  Actual                    Batimated
1972      I97 3 V        197E  :7       T975   /
1. Agricultu-cb
-ioreerji (Project)               -           0.0%         2.9             2.9
Fodder ('- oJect)               -          0.05          1.0             1.0
Other                          0.3         2.8           1.5             2.0
Sub-4votal                 t          n    *       a                3;  9
2.  ffcrestatfon (Project)           2.5        5.0           14.5            5.I4
3. Fisberie£                         0.8        0.5           0.5             0.5
4.. Lnfrastru ture
Roads and Bridges              1.2         3.0           4.0             5.0
Industrial Sites               0.1         2.4           3.0            4.0
Furniture '¢rJrkshops          -           0.3           0.1             -
Sub-Total                                          7W
£ducation
5. PrE9Trychoo1 Classroom            1.5        2.5           3.0             3.0
6. Public Puildin.s                  0.3         0.6          1.0             2.0
7. ViLlaoe Improvement (Project)   0.3          0.3           7.3            11.0
Sut-Tctal                      6.65       17.0          28.8           36.8
8. Administrative Overhead           1.1        2.8           4.°             5.2
9. Total                             7.75      19.8          32.8            41.9
10. Total Public Sector
Capital 5FpencJ.itre         143.0       179.0         185.0           186.0
11. DWC Spendings as % of              5%         11%           18%            22}
Public Sector
Capital Expenditure
12. Project Expenditure as %
of total D'Mr Expenditure      -           -             55%             55%
1/ D'X0 3udcet Actuals
'V DX, !udcc-t Estimates which do not include effect of proposed Public sector wage increase.
3/ Y ssicon FstiznRtes which do not include effect of proposed Publio sector wage increase.
.r;. Adr3ni strative Overheads for
D'. Pronectcd at 1h^



Appendix 2
MAUtRITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tentative Technical and Consultant Service External Financing
Countries                                          Man-Years          us$ '000
United Kingdom
DWC Management Support                               2.0             50.0
India
DWC Management Support                              10.0            1h0.0
France
DWC Training Support                                 8              150.0
UNDP
mappinA                                              -                6.o
Project Preparation Consultants                      1.0             24.0
(Ministry of Agriculture)
IDA
Project Manager (RDU)                                2.0             70.0
Evaluation Consultants (RDU)                         1.0             20.0
Land Use Planner (Ministry of Agriculture)           1.0             30.0
Overseas Short-term Study Courses and Visits         -               60.0
Transport Economist (Ministry of Works)              1.0             60.0
Phy:ical Planner (Ministry of Town and
Country Planning)                                  1.0             60.0
TOTAL                                             27.0            680.0



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MAU.ITITJS
RURWL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJi,CT ORGANIZATION
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.        Under the Project, emphasis would be directed at institution
strengthening rather than creation of new entities to carry out the Pro-
ject. "he Rural Development Unit of the Ministry of Economic Planning
would coordinate P-oJect planning and execution. A Rural Development
Committee of the Cabinet would be established and charged with overall
Project policy determination.  The Planning Units of the Ministries of
Agriculture, Town and Country Planning, health and Works would be streng-
thened.  Finally, the organizational, manageria' and training capabJlities
of the Development Works Corporation (DWC) would be improved (see i        ,).
II.  RURAL DEVELOPP.E.rT UNIT_LRfUj
2.         The RDU   was organized in 1972 within the Ministry of Economic
Planning.  Its functions are to:
(a)  Liaise with Planning Units in the Ministries tublic author-
ities and district and village councils, assisting them as
requested in the preparation of labor intensive muual Deve&op-
ment projects.
(b) Select and appraise labor-intensive rural projects, sub-
mitting its recommendation to the RBual Development Committee.
(c) Monitor and report to the Rural Development Committee pro-
gress of the rural development program.
(d) Plan and direct the village improvement program.
(e)  Evalue the costs and benefits of completed Project components.
(f)  Act as Secretariat for the Rural Development Committee.
3.        The staff of the RDU   would comprise a Chief (Project Manager),
a Deputy, three Senior Village Development Officers, 29 Village Development
Officers, two economists together with supporting administrative and clerical
staff.  Currently, the RDU   has recruited a Deputy Chief, one Senior Vil-
lage Development Officer, and seven Village Development Officers. Each Vil-
lage Development Officer would be resident in one of the selected 82 poorest
villages located within the designated 29 Village Council Areas (see Map a)
4.        The Chief-Project Manager would need to be ex-
perienced in managing multi-sectoral rural works projects. lie would need
to have at least a University degree, preferably with significant graduate
work. His functions woull be to:



ANNEX 3
Page  2
(a) Manage the day-to-day activities of the Rural Development
Unit.
(b) Recruit staff, particularly the cadre of Village Develop-
ment Officers.
(c) Superiise directly the monitoring and evaluation work of the
unit.
(d) i.eview the cost estimate of Project component prepared by
DWC befcre submission to tt.e RDCC.
(e)  Certify reimbursement requests for Project works undertaken
by the D`C.
(f)  Ensure the coordination work of the RDU with the Planning
Units of other Ministries.
(g)  Act as Secretary of the Rural Development Ccmmittee, in that capa-
city, draft the agenda and issue the minutes of the meetings.
(h)  Compile the quarterly and annual reports of Project progress
for submission to the Association and the Rural Development
Board.
(i)  Approve the selected sites of Project components and review
the allocation of bench terracing land to ensure compliance
that each benefits the poorest 20% of the rural population.
(1)  Supervise the training program of the Village Development
Officers.
Tre ,-DU staffing pattern and costs would be as follows:



ANNE;X 3
Rural DeyelollenV IJnit - Staffing and Costs
(fiscal years in tTS$OO0 dollars)
1974    Costs  - 1975    Costs
No Local Foreign  No Local Foreign
Project Manager     1   5.0   35.0    1   5.0   35.0
Deputy Manager      1   8.0      -     1   8.0
Economists           2  12.0           2  12.0
Lvaluation Assist-
ance            .5   2.5   10.0   .5  2.5   10,0
Sub-total:
Senior Village
Improvement
Officers         3  18.0            3  18.0
Village Improve-
ment Officers   15   6.0           20  80.0
Training Expenses       30.0    25.0      30.0   25.0
Sub-total:
Travel               -    -     10.0   -          10.0
Vehicles & Office
Equipment
(Purchlase &
Operation)       -   2.0    15.0   -   3.C
Total;        22.5  90.5    85.0  27.5 258.5  70.0
N.B.  Cost estimates exclude effect of proposed Public Sector salary and wage
increase on local staff.



ANNEX 3
Page-+
III. RURAL DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE OF THE CABINET (RDCC)
6.        The RDCC would be created through executive decree.  Its principal
functions would be to:
(a) Determine and coordinate the overall policy framework for the
Rural Development program.
(b) Approve the individual projects as sub-
mitted by the RDU.
(c) Ensure that individual projects to the extent technically
feasible, benefit the poorest 20% of the rural population.
(d) Approve the allocation of leasehold land derived from Project
constructed bench terraces to households selected from the poor-
est 20" of the landless rural poor.
(e) Recommend policy changes to the Economic Committee of the Cab-
inet with report to wages, working conditions, fringe benefits,
and hiring policies.
7.        The membership of the RDCC would comprise:
Chairman:                 Prime Minister
Vice Chairman:            Minister of Economic Planning
Members:                  Minister of Finance
Minister of Employment
Minister of Agriculture
Minister of Works
Minister of Health
Minister of Local Government
Minister of Cooperation
Minister of Education
Minister of Town and Country Planning
Chairman of Three District Ccuncils
Chairman of Central Electricity Board and
Central Water Authority
Secretary:                Chief, Rural Development Unit.
IV. MINISTERIAL PLANNING UNITS
8.        Of the 22 Ministries in Mauritius, four are likely to play a key
role in this Project -- Agriculture, Works, Health and Town and Country Plan-
ning (see para 9). Each of these Ministries would beresponsible for gener-
ating projects suitable, after RDU vesting, for execution by the DWC. These
Ministries have already established a core unit specifically charged with this
task. The principal functions of these planning units would include:(i) the
preparation of Rural Development projects, which, after appraisal and recom-
mendation by the Rural Development Unit and approval by the Rural Development
Board, would be suitable for execution by DWC and other agencies a:; would be
designated;and (ii) the maintenance and staffing of executed Rural Develop-
ment projects. These units would give particular attention in their planning
to ensure that adequate follow-up work is done in maintaining and staffing
the assets built by DWC labor.
U-~ .. ... 



Page 5
Physical Planning Unit
9.        Physical planning is essential not only for the selection of areas
where viable Rural Development projects can be located but also from the long-
er term economic planning standpoint. The physical planning capabilities are
to be vested in the Physical Planning Group of the Ministry of Lands and Set-
tlment.  This group would work closely with the Rural Development Unit and
the Ministry of Agriculture's Planning Unit. The group would conduct studies
relating to land use, land capability, and land ownership for the use of eco-
nomjic planners, particularly the Rural Development Committee. The staff of the
group would consisi. of a Regional Development Planner, assisted by a Geo-
grapher and a small two or three man Cartographic team. The principal func-
tions of this group would include the conducting of studies relating to land
use, capability and ownership for the purpose of economic planning and, in
particular, for the guidance of the Rural Development Committee in the selection
of Rural Development projects.



ANWF 3
Page 6
Ministerial Planning Units - Staffing & Costs (us$)
FT 1971.4 - 1L975
PHASE I
F! 197 4                 FT 1575
No.   Local   Foreii   _    Local   ForeiEn
.A ric 1ture
__           ~~~/
Lvin  Use Planner       0.5    2.25    16.5      0.5    2.25    16.5
A7ri.cultural
c c n  ist            1      4.5      33.0     1       4.5     33.0
Consultants             0.5    2.25    16.5      0.5    2.25,   16.5
Pealth
Yiealth Frorcomist (V)   1     4.5      33.0     1       4.5     33.0
Ccr-ultants             0.5    2.25    16.5      0.5    2.25    16.5
TcwJn - Country
Plannin3-
32/
^ericcal Planner        1      4.5      33.0     1       4.5     33.0
Ph-sical Planner (V)   1        4.5     33.0     1       4.5     33.0
-'ork s
Civ,l T.hrineer (V)    1      4.5      33.0     1       4.5     33.0
Trp?n^port Economist
1      4.5      33.0     1      4.5      33.0
Consultants             1      4.5      33.0     1       4-5    33.0
Tota-                   8.5   39.25   280.0      8.5   39.25   280.0
V-'7acant 1/ Filled initially for short periods by staff frcn ADS.PNEA.
2/ Filled by ODA.
N.B.  Cost estimates exclude effect of Public Sector proposed salary
and wage increase on local staff.



A'NLX a
Page 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TENTATIVE FUTURE LAND CAPABILI1Y AND CROP USE
1.        The pressure on land in Mauritius is high due to the dominance of
sugar and tea which occupy 95% of the available arable land. Therefore, any
program for diversification into other uses such as food crops, forestry
plantations, animal husbandry development or smallholder schemes must compete
for the remaining small amounts of land.
2.        In order to identify possible areas for development and to define
their correct priority of use, the mission considered a meaningful long term
agriculturalpolicy would be benefited if a future land and crop use mnn could
be prepared. This was done, using the experiences of Agricultural, and Land
Use Planners on tile mission and using available FAO information from a program
in the sixties when FAO undertook an extensive soil, topographical and climatic
survey to provide basic information on the natural recources of Mauritius.
3.        The short preparation period of one month in which Mr. Benham  the
Soil Conservation and Land Planner was available, has produced a map not
accurate in detail and subject to correction when detailed physical planning
would become necessary for the development of individual schemes. However,
the map and the associated tables enable the identification of the Agricultucal
and Forestry sections of the project and their expansion, if so desired, at a
later date.
4.        Areas most suitable for different crops and some of their alternative
possibilities are shown as an aid to the preparation by Government of future
agricultural development, and the allocation of priorities. Examples are further
bencb terracing, mixed crop smallhGldings, completion of all possible forestry
plantations, possible animal husbandry development areas, possible increases in
paddy rice and irrigated vegetables, and finally, tentative variations in the
sugar and tea areas if economic considerations render this desirable.
5.        Thus, the map and tables would also be an aid in the correct allocation
of areas to their crops and type of agricultural activity. They would form the
basis of detailed planning on the ground and the prevention of duplication and
land competition between shemes.
6.        Finally, they could be an aid to legislation for the long term
protection of parks, planted and indigenous forestry areas, catchment zones
and the like.
7.        The map and tables of tentative land and crop use were prepared
by formulating a classification table of possible crops, land and f^ 



tILMA 4
Page 2
usage. Aerial photographs, present crop usage, maps, topography and soil maps
were then compared and utilized together with field trips i1u allocating tenta-
tive usages.
8.        Constant iield trips refined the classification and allocation
methods during preparation. After completion, areas were measured, tables
prepared and a comparison drawn up between present estimates and the tenta-
tive proposals. (Annex 1, Tables 1-4, Maps 3 and 4).
9.        The tables tentatively identify some 36,000 areas of land suitable
for mixed crop development and possible smallholdings of which some 13,000
require bench terracing (Table 3). The remaining 24,000 are suitable for
mixed crops and stock.
10.       Land suitable for plantation forestry totals some 29,000 acres of
which some 75% is in crown lands and contains some 16,000 acres already
planted to trees (Annex 4, Table 2).
__7    .  7. . 



ANNEX 4
Page 3
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOTES ACCOMPANYING THE TENTATIVE IAND AND CROP USE MAP
1.        This map demarcates the possible used to which the' various land
areas in Mauritius could be put.
2.        The map does not recommend that these changes in land use should
be made along the lines indicated but only shows possibilities together with
alternatives.
3.        Decisions on present or future use of land are made by Government
or with the consent of Government by the owners. This map and tables only
indicate amounts of land available and their possible alternative uses.
4.        It is based on climatic, soil and topographical material assembled
by an FAO survey and the soil classification work by Dr. Z. Arlidge.
5.        It is not accurate in detail and detailed planning would be necessary
before any individual development could be carried out. It should also be
examined by Agricultural, Forestry and Sugar experts for review and revision
if necessary.
6.        The attached tables give totals of the categories used and divides
them into already utilized or unused areas. Also into crown lands or privately
owned lands. The latter in the case of small growers probably includes leased
crown land from various settlement schemes.
7.        The following suggestions are put forward:
(i)  All presently planted forest over 3 years old should be
kept to maturity and harvested before any other possible
use is contemplated by Government.
(ii)  All crown land mountain protection areas and planted forest
areas should be gazetted under suitable legislation similar
to the present Mountain Protection area rules.
(iii) The Sugar Industry and the Mauritian Sugar Research Institute
have the best knowledge of the sugar potential of the planted
sugar areas. Therefore, it is suggested that the sugat cate-
gories on this map should be subject to advice by the above
authorities.
8.        A category is shown (G) where the land is not suitable for block
tea but where tea might be a cash crop among food crops for smallholdinga.
9.        The National Parks and Reserves have been left unaltered on this
map although they contain area suitable for mixed cropping and planted
forestry, which are marked on the detailed 1"25,000 working maps held in
the mapping office of the Ministry of Agriculture.



Page 4
10.       The map legend gives some of these follows:
(a) Mountainous land - this represents the hilltops with steep
slopes above 4-50% unsuitable for forest planations or
agriculture. Also included are possible future national
parks.
(b) and (c) Forest plantation areas - these are lands unsuitable
for other forms of agriculture. It includes steep slopes
above 3/0 or lesser slopes with a restrictive factor against
crops. These areas are divided into: Already planted, not
yet planted and also into areas capable of supporting either
cattle or deer management within the mature planted forest
or mature planted forest without any sustem of managed livestock.
(d)  and(e)  Steeply land between 30% and 507. requiring bench
terracing to enable its utilization as permanent first class
arable land. This category is divided into unused or already
under crop.
(f)  and (fl)  Areas suitable for large scale tea divided into
already planted and not yet planted.
(g) Mixed cropping areas in which tea could be used as a cash crop
when grown in small areas by smallholders.
(h) Possible mixed cropping - generally in broken areas where
detailed planning would be necessary to utilize the better
areas for smallholders and the remaining areas for forestry,
grazing or mixture of all three.
(i) and (j) These areas are under sugar but of a lower quality
and continuing broken areas and marginal sugar areas which
could, in the future, be considered for mixed cropping, if
sugar prices fall substantially. These areas generally
have a restrictive factor such as excessive stonyness, poor
or thin soil, etc. which would apply to the mixed crops as
well as sugar. Careful planning would be exxential with
particular regard to the economics of alternate crops.
(k) First class sugar land - this includes within the planted
areas, areas scrub, riverine, slopes, etc.
(1) First class sugar land with alternative uses - these are
areas which, although growing reasonalbe sugar at present,
could be utilized for irrigated paddy rice with suitable
development and the provision of irrigation water. Similarly,
other areas of lighter soild could be used for vegetables.



ANNEX k
development and the provision of irrigation water. 3imilarly,
other areas of lighter soil could be used for vegetables.
A final category of sugar land in the wetter areas is
considered to have ar. alternate use for tea growing if the
economic situation ever rendered tea more favorable than
sugar.
(m) A small zone of irrigated vegetable or rice is also shown.
This could be expanded when further water development and
physical planning of drainage, etc., is done.
(n) Present nature reserve areas - these remain in 1:50,000 scale
display but are shown in detail, on the 1:25,000 working map
in their recommended land use category. It is considered for
example, the planted forest could occupy areas in this zone
without detriment to the park. If desired, areas could also
be used for mixed cropping which, of course, would have    be
excised from the park areas.
1.11      The remaining categories cover the non-agriculture urban areas
the Pas Geometrique, reservoirs, etc. The Pas Geometrique is not shown in
recommended land use categories as it is at present the subject of an
intensive study.
1.12      Correlation of total acreages do not agree exactly with other
estimates due to measuring inaccuracies and differences in equivalent
categories.



AIM=~ IL
Table 1
MIAUP.ITIUS
RUMUL MLLOF.3N21T PROTECT
COMIARISON BMWZMIT OFFICLIL ESTIlihTES
OF P.-;5S MIT LAIN USE AflD FUTI IE L'AND USEE TABLE
t O-?@-v.;L         FUTIJ'11~ 1 t ;;
Su-ar plnt.ed                                   214O000             214.,000
Tea already planted                              13,000               16,OOCF
f e-i crops; ri ce, livestock, tea, etc.
rlus b-nzrh t.erraced areas                -                    37C0ODO
Total arable                           !   I32,0i0             267,0O0
31
olre.t. p.ant.ationc                             ?2,2CKD              16,000i
"onl'- n 1:o p 2ction area
483,000
possible p,Iantations, scrub              111 ,COOQ             4,
Total forest c, prol.cetion            |  13J 000              1 : A)
e:( :   :   'L: u"a) .irba A :l.rcas, re-.:x' ^ .. . 
i;  o ":rt.rf ec and rir \r.r l' cf ;rvMs    !                 j-    _e____
fioK'.} rou  inc:ri-)j ,, islmds    .      ......       .      ......         i  *,C',?2D  1420,000 4/
1/ ;.. -n i2.L.; .n r&. IDA project.
h/  Differences in totals are due to errors of measurement in machines used
to calculate areas from working maps.



I Li
P?D.'TE, )OR-'ZTRY TABS.!3
Al .       T   -                             i        I  -      _
____ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ CROWN  j P .VA   t TOTAL  C W  IF214                __  _ _
Planted forest areas suitable
for orgarized livestock management
within the mature forest.                9,090   3,540    12,630  5$170        2,520        7,690   1L4,26O3  6;0C3  12O,3;
Areas suitable for plansted forest without
livestock management.                    3350- _ 3,350                                                               ____ 4,740  5°  C
T o t a 1 s                             12,440   3,540    15,980   9,910       3,110     | 13,020   22,340 |      e, x5'J  7.,O(
?IMOT:  Planted forest areas which t
i after harvesting at mat   ty
have more intensive poss ble uses:                                 |
- ditto -  (a) tea                       1,570     _        1,570
di|to -  (b) r'ixed crops       ,0                         490 t
-ditto -  (c) sugar                        134                131
-2190     '       2190



, _
R, U~.PL D 2V ILOT' ' r.:OJ TO
B21:CH  T sA '_  TA2L
AC?ES                   CROIN LM D              PRIVL.:     D        1     TOTAL
Steep arable land requiring
bench terracing (3O` - 50%
slopes).  (Unused in 1965
photographs).                    970                       8,370                   9a O40
- ditto - Under crop.                   80                      X,1&3                   _____
T o t a 1 s                    1,00l                      1?,530                   1$,5XO



MIAUIIT11J1
RURAL  l')WiA:!47  HOJECr
POS'I3L3  'rV';uCIE  L1AV, :H.OP AL-tAS IN ACR!S
CROWN       PRIVATEL(       TOrAL
C4AE;:rY                              DESCRIPTION                         LAND           OWNED       ACREAGE
A                Mountainous land and precipitous areas
blaek edged             whitch include future national parks.             19,960        10,54        30,500
B                Suitable for planted forest with deer
Light and dark          or cattle mIanagement within forest.              11 260        6,060        20,320
brown stripes
C                Suitable for planted forest withoul
glackland - Br,n        managed livestock.                                 8,090          S90         8,68o
D                Steeply sloping arable land (VOt - 50)
Creen                   requires bench terracing not in use
in 1965 photographs.                                  970       8, 370        9,340
I                Steeply aloping as In D.  Requires
Red                     bench terracing now in use.                           80        4,160          4,240
P                Toa land In large blocks - *ireedy
Purple                  planted.                                           2,240       13.770         16,01C
Ft               Tea land in large blocks.  Not yet
Purple and brown        planted (alternate use as in G).                   5,970        1,150         5,120
C                Mixed cropping with tea.  As a
Orange and purple       possible cash crop under small-
holdings.                                          1,210        3,600         4,810
t                Possible mixed cropping containing
Orange and brown        broken areas and scrub, alternate
uae forestry or grazing.                           3,470        8,430        11,900
t                2nd cla--  *: .r tith areas suitable
Aternate white          for mixed c-opcing.                                  940       12,970         13,910
and orange
1                2nd class sugar  ith a few areas
White with feu          suitable fcc mlxed cropping.                                    7,760          7,760
orange stripes
Z                Ist class -.gar Inc. rivers and
White                   qc.-                                                 -        223,040       223,040
L                1st class sutar with alternate use  -
White with blue         paddy rice or irrigated vegetables
or purple            (blue), tea (purple).                              5,100       7,890         12,990
stripe
K                Irrigated or sweap vegetables or rice.                   -          1,590         1,390
N                Nacional pack and noture reserve (as
Tellow                  shown on map).                                     4,355                       4355
O                Nor-agricvlt.ral land urban areas.
whl.e                   res.rro:rs, etc.                                      -                       35,560
P                Pas Qrom tr1ou, (contains osos  planted forest
Wh t e                  and gras  9i
41, b525
m 5% measuring error                                                            20,9L6
Tortl of mainland                                                              4W, 000
l Pinted areas sh,   by black hatched lines.
; IS4 acr-i of pl-nt-i iore,t land is reco"mended lor other mre  Intensivc crops after harvest.ing at maturity,
'  Includes riverine land, as rough scrrbland. sot pldnted to sugar.
4r  Soel-bre reserve contains           a 5cres of possible tea and mixed cropping areas.



ANNEx 5
Page 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL D2VELOPMENT PROJECT
FODDER PRODUCTION SUB-PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.        Livestock production on Mauritius is a part time operation.
About 30,000 cattle are owned by some 20,000 villagers. There are only
4-8,000 head in commercial herds which are owned by a few sugar estates.
2.        Cattle are kept under cover to avoid the biting fly (Stomoxis
SpP) and depend on hand cut and carried green fodder collected on road
s'es, field verges, and waste land, plus cane tops during the harvest
season. The availability of feed is the limiting production factor both
because of scarcity of fodder and of high labor requirements to collect
it. Therefore, part time family labor at the lowest income levels is
most often involved. The annual production from one cow is 660 litres
giving an annual income of Mau Rs 230. Replacement young stock compete for
the scarce green fodder and tend to be sold at an unproductive stage to
local butchers.
3.        Demand for meat is high with Mauritius importing 6,000 tons of
moat and the equivalent of 25 million litres of milk annually. Goats,
pigs, some deer meat and poultry are also produced, with pigs and poultry
fed imported foedstuffs.
4.        The cattle, apart from some boran (ex Kenya) beef stock are of
the Creole type of mixed origins; they are dual purpose and have a reason-
able production potential, sufficient for production improvement through
increased nutrition.
5.        Disease problems are few.  The biting fly is the most important.
Apart from a few large heads on the coast, no grazing takes place, although
hilly areas unsuitable for forestry exist, as well as grass beneath mature
forest plantations. These areas could rear replacement dairy stock and
immature beef if freed from the biting fly. The other major restrictions
are the lack of organized milk marketing and cheap concentrate food stuffs
to expand loth production and numbers of stock.
6.        Government proposes to form a Livestock Development Authority to
deal with these problems. UNDP through FAD is organizing a research
program to attack the stomoxis problem, and to deal with the utilization of
molasses and bagassel/ as feed.
1/ Bagasse is the residue of sugar cane after the juice is extracted.



ANNEX!
Page 2
II.  ThE PROJECT COMPONENT
General Deseription
7.        The fodder component comprises the hand clearing and planting
to fodder grasses of 500 acres per year for two years. These areas would
be on Crown Land as near as practicable to the villages included in the
Project. The selected areas would not necessarily be first class arable
land but capable of normal grass growth.
8.        Present results show that productivity from the grasses such as
Napier and seteria s    can support one adult cow or five goats per one
thirdacre. Thus an area of 33 acres would supply 99 extra village cows
above those already kept and fed by random harvesting of roadside fodder
or would enable the present cow population to produce more milk. Villagers
would obtain the sole right to harvest each area at a fee of two rupees per
month per one third acre.
9.        Participating cowkeepers would be encouraged by the Village
Council to organize the transporting of the daily harvest by ox and cart,
to guard the area from theft and to maintain the grassland productivity
by weeding and fertilizers. Labor requirements would be reduced and milk
production would rise.
10.       Labor Requirements.  The labor requirements to clear and plant
fodder is estimated at 2mO man days per acre. The employment effect from
the Fodder Component is 520 man years for two years.
11.       Cost Estimates.  The costs shown below are based on wage cost of
labor of Mau Rs 7.50. Administrative costs are estimated at 14% of investment
cost. Ten per cent physical contingencies and 10% price contingencies have
been included. The foreign exchange component is 12%.
COST ESTIMATES AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENT
Mau Rs '000                US$ '000
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Fodder planting            2,130    340    2,470       390      60      450
Administration                300      -       300      6o       -       60
Physical Contingencies      2_o       30       27C 0            10 l60
Sub total                2,670    370    3,040       500     70       570
Price Contingencies and
Rounding                   270      Lo      310        0     10        60
Total                    2,940    410    3,350       550     80       630
12.       The planting program is 500 acres for two years.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
III. ORGANIZATIGN AND MANAGEMENT
13.       Project Organization.  The areas to be cleared and planted would
be identifie-d bythe Ministry of Agriculture.  The Village Council Areas
selected for the Village Improvement Scheme would be given priority. DNC
would be the executing agency. After completion, the Livestock Development
Authority and the Village Councils would allocate the demarcated areas to
approved village cowkeepers. The Village Council would supply a guard and
supervise and encourage the cowkeepers to organize groups to transport
green fodder by ox carts, and guard their areas. The Livestock Development
Authority would provide advice and credit to cowkeepers and collect their
rents.
IV. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
l4.       The milk production from 3,000 cows would be increased from
about 800 litres per cow to 1,200 litres as a result of the Project. The
sale of milk would be done through milkmen on bicycles already in operation.
V. BENEFITS
15.       The two year program would establish 1,000 acres of fodder
sufficient for 3,000 vllage cows giving a total of 3.7 million litres of
milk worth Mau Rs 1.3 million (US$ 241,000) to the cowkeepers. The increase
in milk production above present production where no new stock are esti-
mated for, would be 1.2 million litres worth Mau Rs 430,000 (US$ 80,000) to
the cawk,.pers.
16.       Other benefits would be access to green feed and the chance to
increase his stock numbers as well as individual production.
17.       Famner's Benefits.  A survey of the dairying industry in 19682/
showed the average cow beeping family was poorer than the average rural
faMily earning only Mau Rs 6.6 per week out of a total of Mau Rs 55.04 by
keeping an average of just under 2 cows (1,8). The family size was 6.8
person3 and spent seven hours a day collecting fodder and milking, etc.,
per cow of which 25% was male adult labor.
18.       The Project would ensure a regular and increased supply of green
fodder outside the cane harvest season. It is estimated that this would
result in a daily increase of 1.5 litres of saleable milk per day during
40 weeks giving an increase in the weekly net income from 6.6 to 9.00
Mau Rs (Appendix 8.1).
1/  "Dairying in Mauritius', by M. Milliken.



Page 4
19.       Economie Evaluation.  The economic evaluation is based on the
following assumptions:
(a) Price - The farm gate price is estimated at Mau Rs 0.35
per litre.
(b) Production - The increased milk production is shown in
para 118.
(c) Import Duties - Adjustments have been made for import
duties and taxes.
(d) Labor - Labor used for the investment has been shadow
priced at Mau Rs 2.85.
(e) Foreign Ecchange - The foreign exchange has been shadow
rated by increasing foreign exchange costs and benefit
by ?0%.
?0.       Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return based on
the above mentioned assumptions is 13% (Appendix 5.2). The rate of return
is sensitive to price and cost changes. The return would be as follows:
(a) Cost increase by 25%              10.3%
(b) %enefits increase by 25%          22.5%
(c) Benefits decrease by 25%           1.4%
(d) Foreign exchange not shadow
rated                            19.1%
(e) No shadow prices are used         11.0%



Appendix I
Page 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FODDER PRODUCTION
DMPROVED COWKEEPERS BUDGET
Mau Rs/Week
Gross Income
Sale of milk @~4  liters/day @35c      11.06
Sale of excess stock and manure         1.50
12.56            12.60
Excpenditures
Repairs on cow shed                     0.20
Expenditure on concentrates @30c/day   2.10
Interest on loans to middleman
milk buyer                             0.25
Veterinary expenses and
inseminations                          0.05
Rent for green fodder area              0.50
Fertilizer                              0.50
3.60
Net Weekly income                                                   9.00
Annual gross takings for cow in milk for
nine months a 39 weeks                                          491.00
Less expenditures for 52 weeks Q3.60 Mau Rs                      18:.00
Net annual income                                                3  .O0



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 2
PRESENT COWKEEPERS BUmET
Gross Income                                  Mau Rs/Weeks
Daily milk sold 3 liters e 35c          7.35
Other income from sale of stock
and manure
8.20
Costs
Repairs on cow shed, etc.               0.20
Expenditure on concentrates S l5c/day 1.05
Interest on loans to middleman
milk buyer                             0.30
Veterinary expenses
1.60
Weekly net income                                                   6.60



Appendix 2
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOP.MT PROJECT
EODElR P.ODUCTION
Economic Rate of Return
Mau Rs '000
YEAI:        1        2        3-35
I COSTS 1/
Invest.ments in Fodder Production 2/              1,114     1,114         -
Adninistration                                      156       156
Increase in Recurrent Cost                           60       182       242
Opportunity Cost of Land                              6        20        28
Subtotal                                    1,336      1,472      270
Adjustment for Labor Costs 3/                       464       464 
Adjustment for Import Duties and Taxes 4/            32        41        18
Adjustment for Foreign Exchange                      45        79        66
Total Costs                                   885      1,oL6      318
Ii BENFITs 1/
Increased Production                                129       387       515
Total                                         129        331      515
III  NET BENEFITS (Costs)                                756       715       197
Rate of Return 13.0%
1/ It is assumed that fodder production during the year of establishment
is 50 percent of full production from the same area.  The same assump-
tion is nude for recurrent costs.
2/ Includes 10% pkysical contingencies.
3/ Labor is shadow priced at Mau Rs 2.85 per day worked.
L/ Import taxes and du.ties on transport equipment, fertilizers and other
materials ia assumed to be 23%, 0%, and 5%, respectively.
5/ Foreign exchange expenditures are increased by 20,.
i --S: 4 6>--W-,-' '^ v s>4' 'v! ' - ' '4 ' t-,.Y <,   - 



ANNEX 6
Page 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FORESTIKY
I.  BACKGROUND
1.        General.  In Mauritius around 35% of the total land area (".O,ooO
acres) is under scrub forest or grassland, the majority privately owned. Of
that area some 50,000 acres is covered by poor quality forests, but including
some 16,000 acres of mainly State-owned planted forests (Appendix 4.2). The
forests are with few exceptions situated on the Central Plateau. The typical
vegetation on areas suitable for planting is tropical/sub-tropical evergreen
rain forests with few commerciable trees and a strong element of shrubs.
2.        Climate and Soils.  The forest areas to be planted are situated
mainly on an altitude between 300 and 450 meters. The annual rainfall ranges
from 2,500 to 3,000 mm. The average summer temperature on the plateau is 220
andiAnter temperature 16°C. The soil to be planted on the highland plains
i-s dark brown sandy loam deep enough for tree planting and suitable mainly
for forestry. On the hillsides the latosolic brown soil could be good soil
for agricultural crops if it were not for the steep slopes. Lying in the
South West Indian Ocean tropical cyclone zone, Mauritius experiences steady
trade winds of moderate strength. However, strong cyclones (winds with speeds
over 100 mn.p.h.) are a threat to the Mauritian forests. Existing records reveal
that wind speed in excess of 150 m.p.h. on an average occurs once in a century
(e.g., "Carole" in February 1960) and winds in ex_ess of 100 m.p.h. may occur
on the average of once in every 10-20 years (Appendix 6.1). However, almost
every year cyclones pass in the vicinity of the island without causing severe
damage (para 34).
3.        Land Use Policy.  A land-use plan to determine suitable crops for
all land on Mauritius has been prepared, based on a UNDP soil survey (Annex  ).
The demand for tea plantation land has in the past resulted in transfers of
planted forest land into tea land. Up-to-date, some 12,300 acres of planted
forest land has been assigned to tea, over half of which was immat-ure stands
(2-10 years old). The remainder was forests harvested at maturity or at least
when commerciable wood could be utilized. The uprooting of planted forests
for tea establishment has been carried out simultaneously with new plantations
of forests.
[.        Forest Resources.  According to the most recent annual resort of the
forestry service the area planted on Crown Land is 18,000 acres. However, the
records do not represent the true picture.  No recent survey has been made.
The Forest Service is waiting for a basic decision on which areas should be
declared Forest Reserves before they survey and update the records. The area
of planted forest in Crown Land is probably close to 12,4C0 acres and about
3,500 acres on private land (Annex 4 Appendix 2).  Although records exist on
the original planting, little has been done to update these to reflect changes
in areas of different age groups. Based on available information on yearly
planting 1960-70, estimated area converted to tea and an assessment made by



ANNEX 6
Page 2
representatives from the Goverrnont in India the distribution of planted
forests on Crown Land is as followst
Age in year         1-5    6-10    11-15    15-
Area - acres      6,500   4,900      700     300
5.        Of this, about 80% of pine, mainly Pinus elliotti.  The qualities
of the existing pine stands are suitable for sawn timber.  The eucalyptus,
which is the next prevalent species, is used for poles and firewood.
6.        Demand for Forest Products.  The per capita wood consumption (exclud-
ing plywood, paper, etc.,) was according to the Forestry Service's annual report
approximately 5.1 cu ft in 1971. Of this, about 15% was imported timber.
Apparent Consumption of Wood (1971)
- '000 cu ft roundwood -
equivalent
Timber       Poles             Fuelwood             Total
(Firewood & Charcoal)
From Crown Land           478          26               2,511               3,015
From Private Land
(estimated)           30           35                 350                415
Imports                   783           -                                     783
Total        1,291           61              2,861               h.213
Source:  Annual Report of the Forestry Service 1971.
7.        Processing of Wood Products.  Some 48 sawmills employ a total of 210
workers of which one (Grewall) employs 40 workcrs.  The quality of produced
timber is low due to poor handling.  The Grewall sawmill has a concession con-
tract for first option on all wood sales from Government land. This contract is
1/ Government of India. Techno-Economic Survey of Mauritius, February, 1971.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
presently under negotiation for revision (See para 38). There is a small
match factory which mploys a total of 130 workers.   It uses both local and
imported timber. A bagasse based particle board mill was established in 1971
and has a production capacity of up to 7,000 tons per year and was producing
1,000 tons of good quality board in 1972 for domestic use.
8.        Forestry Service Organization.  The Forestry .Service is responsible
for the management of the 74,000 acres Crown Forest Estate. The Forestry
Service is headed by a Chief Conservator who is responsible to the Ministry
of Agriculture. At the moment he is the only academically trained forester
in the Service. In 1972, the Forestry Service employed permanently some 700
men of which 570 were laborers. The planting program and some other silvi-
cultural work was carried out by DWC employing some 2,500 Relief Workers.
Legislation Governing Forestry
9.        In Mauritius no land is set aside as Forest Reserves, which leads
to frequent conflict of land use. The Crown Land forest estates which includes
all lands belonging to the Goverr0ent, are managed according to an approved
Forest Policy. This policy involves preservation of tree cover, safeguarding
water supplies, prevention of damage to rivers and agricultural land by flood-
ing and erosion, obtaining the highest possible revenue from forestry on a
maximum sustained yield basis, carrying out experimental work, educating and
training forestry personnel and cooperation with other land interest in ach.eve-
ment of optimum land allocation and usage.
10.       River banks and steep mountain slopes rrivately or government owned
are protected from devastation through the Forest and Mountain and River Reserves
Act of 1971. At the moment there is no Private Forest Law regulating the use of
private forest land.
II. THE PROJECT COMPONENT
General Description
11.       The forest component of the Project would comprise planting an area
of 2,000 acres annually for two years in pines (mainly Pinus elliott-) (1,600
acres), and eucalyptus (mainly Eucalyptus robusta) (h40 acres) (Map 1).
12.       The land clearance and plantation work is highly labor-intensive.
The labor cost eomponent is over 95% of development cost (82% if transportation
of workers is included). Because of the low degree of mechanisation, the laber
requirement for establishment of pine and eucalyptus plantations under the
project is about 250 man days per acre. In the Bank financed Industrial
Plantation Project in Zambia and the Forest Plantation Project in Kenya the
corresponding labor reqirements are estimated at 25 and 5C man days per acre.
Their economic rate of return were calculated at 1h% and 12% respectively.
The economic rate of return of the forestry component is 8%   (para 40).



ANNEX 6
Page 4
13.       Location, Transportation and Communication.  The forest plantations
within the Project would be carried out in Crown Lands. Mbst of the areas
planted with pine are on the plateau, and the eucalyptus and other broadleaves
on lower areas. The roads to the areas suitable for forestry are good but
the forest areas access and extraction road nets need improvement, which
will be included under the Project.
Detailed Features
lh.       The area to be planted is covered by a dense sub-tropical bush-
forest with some commercial timber worth harvesting.  Normally, the existing
indigenous forest is sold to a saw miller who harvests the wood for timber
and firewood and pays a low stumpage fee. The remaining forest is cleared
manually, but not uprooted, nor is the surface cover disturbed and wood not
taken as firewood by the workers is burned.
15.       The planting procedure will be in accordance with established
technique. The plants would be planted at a spacing of 8' x 8' (4,200 per
acre).
16.       An area on the slopes of the hills surrounding Port Louis wi11 be
planted mainly to eucalyptus. This plantation as well as being economic, has
amenity value and improves the biological environment around Port Louis.  This
area is now covered by grass and used for goat grazing. Past attempts to plant
this area with forests have failed until a new system was introduced including
fire and goat protection and some stone walling for water retention. The stone
walls built within the Project would be about 2 feet high and would be built
on the contour. Some earth would be moved up against the wall to prevent water
penetration in the form of a partial terrace. The fire protection works would
consist or firebreaks about 20' wide with bare soil. Apart from these special
techniques these plantations would be similar to the others within the program.
17.       The areas planted have to be weeded twice a year for three years.
The survival percent in the method used is high but replacing of dead plants
is needed.   After cyclones the plants often have to be staked.
18.       The pine forest have to be cleared from bushes before first thinning
(about years 8-10).  First thinning, which would not yield commerciable timber
but some firewood to cover harvesting cost, is combined with a branch pruning
to increase quality of timber. Tihe second thinning, which would give net
returns, is carried out in years 13-15 and is also combined with further pruning.
A last thinning is done years 18-20. The stands are clearfelled at about year
25.
19.       The eucalyptus rotation period is much shorter (about 10 years) than
that of pine.  They require no thinning and no pruning.  A second and third
generation will be obtained through coppice reproduction from the stumps at
low cost.
@ 't C,,S ,i, +.' t,t v ,-ZJ.  .  .;;,.4. 4* ,.  .4; ~,.h  , .  *.  .......



ANNEX 6
Page 5
20.       The roads to be built are feeder roads within the planting areas
and they are of two types. The cheapest road suited only for labor and
equipment transport during planting and weeding, consists of two stoned
wheel tracks without ditches. The higher quality road is 12' wide with
cobble stone surface and drained on both sides.
21.       Labor Requirements.  The labor component is high (para 12).  The
employment effect during year 1 and 2 would be 1,900 and 2,200 man years
respectively (Appendix 6.2). The maintenance and thinning of the forest
from years 3-22 will require additional permanent staff averaging about
300 men per year. Ultimately, the yearly harvesting of mature forest will
require some additional 600 men employed by contractors.
22.       Cost Estimates.  Total cost for the forestry component is estimated
below:
Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Components
% of Foreign
Mau Rs '000                     US$ 'coo            Exchange
Local    Foreign    fotal  Local   Foreign   Total
Reforestation Costs   6,380       200      6,58o  1,180        40   1,220        3
Road Building Costs     50o       100        600     90        20      110      18
Transportation of
Workers             380     1,100      1,480     80       200      280      71
Administration Costs 1,020           -     1,020    190          -     190       -
Sub-total        8,280     1,400      9,680  1,540       260   1.800
Contingencies and
Roundings         1,660       280      1.940    310 o0             360      ILL
Total Costs      9,94o     1,680    11,620  1,850        310   2,160       14
The labor component is estimated at 82%. Foreign exchange component is estimated
at 14%. Estimates are based on cost statistics from past forest plantations on
Mauritius. A price contingency of 10% annually and a physical of 10% annually has
been included.



ANNEX 6
Pag-e-Z
23.       Detailed Cost Estimates.   Cost calculations are based on labor require-
inents shown in Appendix 6.2 and the labor cost of Mau Rs 7.50.
2t.       Administrative Gosts.  Administrative costa are based on present
experience (under the ongoing forest plantatior program). Unskilled labor
can carry out the proposed work but needs considerable aWvrvision; one
gangman for every 20 workers and one overseer for every 80 iorkers is needed.
The cost of training the personnel in the Forestry Service and 3C has been
included in the administration costs. The cost of administration including
gangmen but excluding overseers, is estimated at 1h% of investment cost.
25.       Plantation and Roadbuild>-Sg Costs.  These costs are based on present
labor-requirement experience. The labor requirfment per acre is shown in
Appendix 6.2.
26.       Transportation of Workers and Road Building Costs.  The ,ost of
transporation including equipment cost (para 27) is estimated at Mau Rs 1.4 per
labor day.  One truck carries 32 workers.  The cost of road building is
estimjated at Mau Rs 15/meter. The average length of roads needed per acre is
10 meters.
Equipment and Material Costs
27.       The costs for polyethene bags used for planting and fertilizers used
in nurseries would be 35 Mr/acre. The cost of materials and equipment tzols for
planting and road building is estimated at 10 and 22 Mau Rs/acre respectively. The
cost for trucks to be used for traniporation of workers and materials is estina-
ted at 250 Mau Rs/acre.
28.       As most of the equipment is not locally made the foreign exchange
component is assumed to be nearly all equipment costs.
III.  ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONAL MANAGFMENT
The Forestry Service
29.       The Forestry Service would be responsible for planning of the
forestry program. They will decide planting techniques, specie3 and treat-
ment to be used. A yearly composite plan will be prepared for approval of
the Ministry of Agriculture.
30.       The Forestry Service needs an additional professional forester to
.be able to carry out the increased program and urgent inventory work.
31.       It is of importance to the development of forestry on Mauritius that,
like in most countries, land used for forest plantation vould be declared
Forest Reserves in order to encourage long term forest planning. The Land Use
Map could be used to identify areas suitable for forest resez-ves (Annex b).
32.       Execution and Operational Arrangements.  The work program worked
out by the Forest Department and approved by the Ministry of Agriculture would
go to thle Rural Development Committee of the Cabinet for approval before the
work is contracted to the DWC. The cost accounts would be kept by DWC but



ANNEX 6
Page e7
all cost information would be available to the Forestry Service and would
be reviewed by them.  The planted areas would be taken over by the Forestry
Service the second year after plantation.
33.       Mcnitoring.  The Project offers a good opportunity to investigate
the environmental effect from afforestation. Eventual climatic changes in
Port Louis as a result of plantation of the hills surrounding the town would
appear within ten years. Information of temperatures, humidity and floodings
should be collected and compared with past records. Information which could
be used to evaluate and improve appraisal work and project performance should
be collected. Such information would include: labor requirement costs, area
planted, yearly cuttings, consumption of wood and prices of wood products.
IV. PRODUCTION AND MARKETS
Yields and Production
31.       Records of production and yields are not available to che extent
desired. However, trials have been carried out to estimate growth of Pinus
eliotti on good soils. Estimates based on that material show that the rota-
tion period for pine would be around 25 years on Fites applicable to the
program. Thq mean annual growth of pine is estimated to be 225/cu ft per
acre (15.0 mha) . On average 25% of total wood production is estimated to
be blown down by typhoons and of that 25% before it reaches cormercial sizes.
The average yields after deduction of production lost through typhoon damage,
recovered at the two thinnings giving commerciable wood, would be 700 and
970 cu ft over bark per acre respectively, and from clear felling would be
2,825 cu ft over bark per acre.
35.       The yield data available for Eucalptus robusta are very scarce.
A conservative estimate is an annual yield of 270/ou ft per acre (18 m3/ha).
The rotation period would be 10 years without any thii1ning and the wood would
be used for poles and firewood. Volume at clear felling after deduction of
loss fram typhoon damage would be 2,025 cu ft.  The total wood production
resulting from Pine and Eucalyptus resulting frcm the Project investment
during 26 years would be some 525,000 cu meters.
Market Prospects
36.       The planting program has been designed to meet the local demand for
firewood, poles and pine timber. However, the program establishes plantation
forests at a higher rate than would ultimately be clear felled annually. This
is, however, justified for a shorter period of time as the existing resource
is too small to meet demand in the future and as some of the forest planted
within 'he program could be harvested earliez thaii normal to meet this demand.
37.       Total consumption in 1971 of wood exclusive veneer and paper products
was h.2 M cu ft of which 1.3 M cu is industrial wood (para 6). Wood con-
sumotion wa:_ for the same year 5.1 cu ft/capita. Increase of wood consumption
is estimated at 5% per year. The total wood consumption in year 2,000 would,
on this assumption, be 17,3 M cu ft of which about 5.0 rf cu ft would be
industrial wood. The total forest area needed to meet this denand of wood
would be about 25,000 acres.



ANNEY 6
Page 8
38.       Prices.  The present price offered to the limited supply from
private forests is estinated at Mau Rs 2.50 per cu ft.  The average CIF price
of irported tLrber is Mau Rs 3.50 per cu ft, but the quality of that timber is
higher.  The actual price of standing, timber on Crown Lands on Mauritius
is below reasonable market prices. This is the result of a long tenm
contract (15 year,;) being awarded to th,e Grewall sawnill after the 1961
typhoon in order to encourage investment in a sawmill big enough to take
care of the wood felled by the storm.  Tne price is 0.20 Mau Rs per cu ft at
stump 1.3 US$/cu meter which is low neasured by any international standard.
Grewall's is offered the first bid on all sales of vood from the Forest
Service, and if not accepted by thlerm, the other sawnills get it at the
same price.  3rewall's is not receiving enough wood at sand price to reach
Pull capacity in their mill and is therefore willing to re-negctiate the
contract in order to get rnore wood (para 7). Goverrnment will soon enter
into negotiations with Grewal] to raise this price before the tenmination
of the or ntract.
V.  BENEFITS AND ECONCOMIC RATE CF
iIETURN
39.       Ecnnomic Evaluation.  The economic evaluation is based on the
following assumptions (Appendix 6.5):
(a)  Price.  Wcod Price for nines at sturm at the time Of clear
fell:ng is assumed to be 2.b Mau Rs per ci ft (uS1 17.0 per m3)
rean'red over bark.  The --ice is based on an international
pri ce f>r timber lpnded In Mauriti is (U3TZ 2r.0) mints cest
of harrest.r., and tran._-ort (U7 3.0.  The cr'ce at stuwp
for pines at T,hinning and eucalyotu:i at clear Pelling is
1;slried to be Mau Rs 1.0 and 0.75 per cu ft respectively.
(b)  Prcduct'on,  Wood rxoduct.cn lost through typhoon darare
.z  eductec in tre economic evaluat.ior. (para 3k).
(c)  Foreign ExcLMange,  the wood produced as a result from the
Pr-, ect A,u1d result in foreigi exchange savings.  The Price
ofr wood has therefore been increased by 20' (Annex 12).  The
c_st ef transport equ4ipment. and other material and equipment
has been increased bv 2C(  to account for fororign exchange
spend_ng minus irport duties and taxes (Annex 12).
(d)  Labor.  Labor has been shadow priced at Mau Rs 2.65 (for the first
five years)(Annex 12).
(e)    Etiunditv Cost 0f Land.  The opportunity cost of land has
not been considered, as most of the land used for forestry
has no alternative use, except for the land surrounding Port
Louis where it is used to a limited extent for grazing of
goat3.



ANNEX 6
Page g
(g)  Import Duties.  Import taxes and duties have been deducted
from the cost.
4o.       Economic Rate of Return and Sensitiv-'rty.  The economic rate of
return based on the above mentioned assumption is8.O % (Appendix 6.5).
The rate of return has low sensitivity to price or cost chan2,es. The
economic rate of return would be as follows if:
cost increase by 25%                        6.9%
benefits increase by 25%                    9.5%
benefits decrease by 25%                    6.2%
foreign exchange not shadow rated           7.2%
no shadow prices are uxsed                   .98
Other Benefits
41.       The environmental benefit to the country and especially the Port
Louis area would be substantial.
I2.       The forest plartations could latfer be used for grazing of cattle
if the biting fly (Stymoiis sp) could be controlled.
1.3.      The road building component would improve the infrastructure not
only benefitting the forest plantations.



AINYEX 6
Appendix 1
SUSTAINED WIND SPEED IN TROPICAL CYCLONES AS RECORDED AT
PA1PLEMOUSSES, MAURITIUS
(CALCULATED ON READINGS FROM 1876 TO JUNE 1971 INCLUSIVE
Hourly wind                                 Frequency
speed in
m.p.h.         Nov.   Dec.   Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May.   Total
25-29              1      2       5      7       4      2      1       22
30-34                     1       3      9      h       2              19
35-39                     1      6       2      2       1             1 2
40-44                     1       3      2       3      1      1       11
hl5-L9                    2       1      5                              8
50-54                     1       1              1                      3
55-59                             1      2      1                       4
60-64                             1                                     1
65-69                                                                   0
70-7L                                    1                              1
755-79                                                  1               1
BO-85                                    1                              1
25. m.p.h.         1      8      21     29      15      7       2      83
and over
Source: Meteorological Ser.sices: Climate in Mauritius



MAURITIUS RURAL DEVELOPMENT
F0 RE ST RY
LABOR REQUIREKflTS
I/
Labor days per Acres
Year       1        2         3         4         5         6         7        8         9        10       11        12        13
Land Clearance and Soil Protection                         120      120        --
Plants                                                      23       23                  -
Planting                                                    13        13
Rc-plsntin g - Planted Year 1                               4         4        4
Planted YeAr 2                                         4        4         4
Weedinyg      -Planted Year 1                               30        26      20
Planted Year 2                                        30       26        20
Staking       *Planted Year 1                                4        4        4         4
Plented Year 2                                         4        4         4        4
Fire Protection Work                                         2         2
RoadbjLIldfi%                                               15        is
Shedas  Watchmen, Etc.                                       4        4
Clesni n                                                                                                                       30        30        30        30
Pruning                                                                                                                         S         8        a         8
S'ib-Tot4l                                    215       249       62        32         4
Gangnetn (I per 20 workers)                                 11        13       3         2
Ovtrseer(l per 80 worLers)                                   3         3        1
Total                                          229      265       66        34         4        -        -                   40       40        40
Traneportationi of Workers                                  13        17        3        1
Grand Total                                    236      273       69        35         4
000 of labor days vith a 2000 acres prosram
(250 vorking daya/year)                       472       546      138        70         8
Man year with a 2000 a(-Tcs program                      1,888    2,184      552       280        32
i/  A.i,.t Jbo, equivilent
>:



71        7LI!TOPUI7 r8n3s
MAL  tgvcowr FE oo
OOUSTRY
0o   t.C *O   C.F
S..,         1           2            1           .          5          *           7          8.4        10-1          22        12-14        127          18-19          20-21           22            23.26
1,   C09TS
l  ---t-ot to Foro-t Plot.tlto.                            1.850       4,488
of t.1           it                               3.133       3,!37
fttiOtdO      ftt-r Co-to.ottoo ?.110                                               1.142        394          sO         6          6         233           23S         6           5          6             53             53             4               6
of whtbo bo, ?It                                                              s8         436          52         G          6         223           I23         *           43          O             AS             43             4               4
AdloA.tCtlon od r Jnls1          /33                                      62J          160          81         11         1          I          33            33          I           7           1             7              7             1
S.b-totl l-.t- t rod 12.10-0.                          *4,389       1.021         1,J02        677          81         I          7         264          2t"          1          40           7             GO             40             7               7
kdjo*71_t tf- Lbor Cot 4/                                  1 .567       1I.St          424        214         23                     -                        -           -           .          -             .              _              .
AdAJo.t-t tor1 l1,t T. 0 d Dot1   1I                         134          134           t4          37          1                                2             2                      2 -        .              2              1
)A3o.....tfo.fo*n18.          .r4.is   *1 i6                               87           S2         1t           2         _          -           I             I         -            I          .              I              I
TOTAL COtT                              2.774       3.193           044        Ml           59         7          7         245           265         7           5S          7             S9             59             7               7
it.  tW1TS
MIlo of %od Plo  to br4 Clrne                                too          1too
St'w-so  2ooo00 1 V                                            -                        - 1                                                                  408                    545                       777          1.383             .         3.74
Adj..Ct f.t,                        6 *.eh   4/                                                                                                             122         .          113          .            181            277             .         1.175
TOTAL 5D9cnT                              tC           01                  *                - to                  -0                                  *         67I           *            932         1.62               .         7,046
1ll.   9r1  31F       (Coot)                                      (7,674)    (1,05 3)         (84)        (44)        (59)       (7)       17)        (265)        461          (7)        419          (7)           873         I.4tO            (7          7.042
R.00 of   rt.. r .0T
11  loodIutItn  ply.tt.l cofttoo.nrlo   .r 102 durIng oOttOrodttOO
?/  tpl.tl.tl-   -tdj.g.tkn            o-d   nwnn          Ilrflr .d p-MnIn.
3/  E.totIsad  0t 16. of Itvnttht 'oo locl dti30 ootnzIn4-n
1/ t0.d0  prIc- of tb.  3K  -.S. b..C  1. M.o R. 3.50 d,,tlog th. (tr.t ft-.yt
5/  Iprt  -t.tO d   itt. on t-po.rot *q.ltPnt .4 0th- .tottI                        ...4 to 6  233  -d r
6/  Hc  f.o-ISt  .ocb.ngO  0                                  i-. dtre. ood rOoOr oe  2tt0100004 by 201.
;/  P,f0  MI fop-po _od f. tbI..g to otd to bo  I  C                  Mo 90 POt 00 ft.
Pio. lo  pI.. 00 I. tr leo   folllnt .       ^    .od t.' b6  2.6        P., It POt O  1
Prite for  .ttCOtyr     nd* 00      tS-d to be 0           R.Oi  00 P-t .  ft



ANNEX 7
Page 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
VILLAGE IMPROVEMENT COMPON1ENT
1. BAC1CROUND
1.        Rural villages in Mauritius have grown in an unplanned manner
close to sugar and tea plantations where there are opportunities for
employment. Most of the villages are strung out along the boundaries
of plantations and lack sufficient village land to grow wnough crops
and fodder to sustain their population. It is estimated that some 40%
of villagers are landless.
2.        In general, villages lack adequate physical facilities ouch
as roads with drains. adeauate water supply, market places and community
centers. An example of a long established, poor village, is
Palmar with a population of 941 in 75 households. Of its 205 houses, 53
are either unsound or dilapidated. Only 4 have a running water supply
and so women must walk 100 meters or more to draw water from three public
water taps which operate for certain hours each day. Except for the main
road crossing the village, internal roads and drains are rudimentary.
The village does not have electricity, a telephone, a market place or a
disnensary. A mobile dispensary with a male nurse calls once a week at
the Village Council Area Headquarters, about 1-1/2 miles from the village.
Of 292 persons in the labor force aged 15 to 59, 174 are employed,
most of these in the sugar plantations for the harvest season which lasts
from 5 to 7 months. Seven persons own 6.2 acres of land and three others
partially own and partially rent about 50 acres. Sixteen villagers rent
51 acres and folar farm 5 acres which has disputed ownership.  Much of the
farming land is situated some 1-1/2 miles from the certer of the village.
3.        Another poor village built in recent years, is Carol, which has.
a population of 407. Of the 83 houses, 43 are unsound. Only one house
has a rnining water suppply; the rest of the villagers obtaininag their
water from three public taps which, due to an inadeauate water supply
operate for only a few hours each day. The villagers have to walk 1-1/2
miles to the nearest bus stand as the bus refuses to negotiate the bad
access road into the village. Internal roads are of dirt and in rainy
periods become mud pits. There is no primary school, post office, tele-
phone or electricity, and the nearest market place is some 4 miles from
the village.   None of the villagers own land; one villager rents an acre.
Of 133 in the labor force between 15 and 59 years of age, 102 are employed,
but this employment usually last for only 5-7 months during the sugar
harvest. For 4-5 months each year some women earn Liau Rs 10 (US$1.85 ) per
month per animal for fattening cows and calves for meat. Thl.ey must provide
the fodder, collecting it from the roadside and crown lands.



Page 2
4.        Both these villages are included in the government's pilot scheme
for village improvement. Recently some improvements were made in Carol.
Internal roads were bituminous surface treated, an additional public -water
tap installed and electrification of the village commenced. A mobile dis-
pensary now visits the village once a week. Thirty out of 45 co*teepers
have established a co-operative society and a loan of US$ 60 for each member
is being negotiated to enable the purchase of a female calf for each member.
The milk obtained on maturity would provide a greater income than that now
obtained from fattening cattle.
N.        A self-help program of kitchen gardening has been launched and
negotiations are almost complete with the adjacent tea estate to obtain
some 22 acres of land for the villagers. Government expects to undertake
similar improvement work in Palmar.
6.        Rural villages in Mauritius are grouped in 98 71llage Councils
which comprise 9 elected and 3 nominated members who are responsible for
the administration of rural government.  Each Village Council area of
30,000 people constitutes a Divi don for electoral purposes and elects
3 village counsellors to a District Council.  There are 3 District Councils
in Muaritius with 15 elected and 3 Government nominated members. The
lillage Councils are responsible for the welfare of the inhabDtants, main-
tenance of local roads, drains, etc.  The activities of the District Councils
include maintenance of District roads, drains and public cemeteries, provision
of simple water facilities, washing places, bus shelters, etc.  The Councils
have no taxation powers and are dependent on annual government grants-in-aid.
II  mETI4ODOLOGY OF SELECTION
7.        During the appraisal work, Government and the Mission established
a methodology for locating the poorest 20% of the rural population, and at
the sane time, to identifying the major factors which limit the social and
productive capacity of the rural population.
. . ,contd on page 3



ANNEX 7
Page 3
8.        In conjunction with the Economic Planning Unit, a village poverty
index (See  Appendix 7.1)   was constructed to assist identification and
selection of the poorest villages. Major elements in the index were (1)
village unemployment and underemployment, (2) availability of village amenities,
e.g. market places, school, clinic, village hall, water, telephone and elec-
tricity and (3) housing conditions and transport faci'lities, including roads.
Data were obtained for all the village localities in Mauritius, using special
tabulations from the 1972 Housing and Population Census returns, together
with information supplied by Ministries and on-the spot village surveys con-
ducted by Village Development Officers. Unfortunately household income data
were not available.
9.        The procedure for preparing weights and assigning them during cons-
truction of the index is detailed in  Avpendix 7.2    . The index was applied
to all villages in the three District Council Areas.
10.       The procedure for selecting the poorest rural villages for
inclusion in the Project was based on the village poverty index.  Villages
in each District Council were ranked according to their index and the lowest
quartile were then sorted into their representative Village Council areas.
Those Council areas with over 50 of their total number of households included
in the lowest quartile (23 in all) were then included in the Project. An
additional 6 Village Council areas were also included in the Project as they
were considered by Government to be sufficiently poor and of sufficient siue
to act as a focus for further area development.
11.       The 29 Village Council areas selected for inclusion in this Pro,ect
comprise 117 villages with a total population of 130,000 which is 35$ of
the rural population in Mauritius ( Appendix 7.3)         86 of the villages
were in the poorest quartile of the selection index and contain about 805
of the households (30,000 people) in that quartile throughout Mauritius.
The reenining 31 villages Ebove the lower quartile were included in the
Project for the practical reason that there was overlap of facilities (e.g.
market centres, health centres, roads) between these villages and those in
the lowest quartile.
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
12.       Public works would be underta,ken in 86 villages from 29 Village
Council areas (see Map 2). The works would include improvement and cons-
truction of internal and access roads, construction of village centres and
market places. The works would also include construction of 5 Rural Health
Centres to serve the 29 Village Council Areas (130,000) people). Additional
public water taps would be installed to provide about 15 gallons of water
per person per day. The villages would also be provided with materials
free of cost for self-help projects. This package of inputs accords with
the Governments objectives for rural development. It does not conflict
with the sectoral progranmes and would collectively improve the quality
of life of the villagers by modifying their life habits and lifting pro-
ductivity.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
13.       About 35% of the population of Mauritius, or about 130,000
persons, would benefit from the improvement and construction of common
facilities such as roads,village centres, market centres, and health
centres. Of this number about 80,000 persons or 20% of the rural popu-
lation are from the poorest villages and would benefit further from the
construction of additional water taps and implementation of self help
proJects. A substantial portion of the bench terracing and fodder
f,rowing sub-projects would be located around or near the selected villages
and two acre holdings of terrace land would be allocated. to suitable small-
holders from these villages. These villagers would also obtain rights to
harvest fodder from fodder areas. The Government's rural electrification
program now covers some 75% of rural villages and it is expected that the
remaining areas would be serviced aoon.
14.       The Development Works Corporation (DWC) with locally recruited
labor would carry out constrnetion using labor-intensive methods. The
71l1age Development Officers would work closely with the DWC to coordinate
project works. It is estimated that this work would create about 3,600
adult equivalent temporary job opportunities, 1,h00 in the first year and
an additional 8,000 jobs in the second year.
IV. DETAILED FEATURES
IC.       Improvement of access and internal roads with drains.  Mauritius
has a gazetted net work of 1,240 miles of road; 720 miles being main roads
and 520 miles, rural roads. The Ministry of W'brks is responsible for main-
tenance of main roads and the District and Village Councils for rural roads.
The present poor condition of rural roads, aid the fact that some 178 miles
are water-logged in the rainy season, makes access to the villages difficult.
Improvement of village roads would reduce transportation costs of sugarcane
and tea, and facilitate access to the urban areas. Furthermore, it would
stimulage the econamic activity of backyard farmers producing fruits,
vegetables and milk, and improve the mobility of labor by extending the
existing bus routes to the villages and improve access to extension workers.
16.       Project work would involve improvement of an estimated 114 miles
of existing roads and tracks and new construction of an estimated 76 Y miles
of internal and accress roads in the selected Village Council areas.
Village access roads and internal village roads would be constructed to a
width of 20 ft, 16 ft or 12 ft whichever being appropriate to the terrain.
The malority oX' the roads are expected to be about 16 ft wide. The work
would consist of construction or reconstruction of base course, bituminous
surfacing, side drains and culverts. The cost for construction of roads
in mountainous terrain are estimated to increase by 50 to 100% depending
upon the amount of rock excavation involved. Most of the proposed roads,
1/ The average section to be improved or constructed would be about 0.9
miles in length.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
hawever, are in flat and rolling terrain and would follow, for the most
part, existing tracks. Scme land acquisition may be necessary, but govern-
ment procedures are &dequate in this regard.
17.       The estimated costs of road works are based on data available
from the DWC. These estimates were reviewed by the Mission and found to
be satisfactorz. Total cost of improvement of a 16 ft wide existing road
is estimated to US$ 5,800 per mile. The labor cost component is estimated
at 40% and the number of man-days per mile, 2,320. The foreign exchange
cost component is estimated to be 40%. Total cost for new construction of
existing tracks to bituminous surfacing standard is estimated to be
US$ 17,775 per mile for a 16 ft wide road. This includes the cost of con-
struction of drains and culverts. It is estimated by DWC that a culvert
of about 5 ft span is necessary for each mile of road. The direct labor
cost compmnent is estimated at about 40% and the number of man-days of DWC
labor at 6,500 per mile. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
40%. The additional labor ccaponent included in the material, crushed
aggregate, etc. has not been quantified.
18.       Maintenance costs for a bitumnin surfaced 16 ft wide road is
estimated to be US$ 200 per mile annually. The routine maintenance work
by the District Councils will cover drain cleaning, repair of pot-holes,
wash-outs. Periodic maintenance will cover the renewal of the surface
by provision of bituminous sanm seal every seven years. It has been
necessary to select a seven year maintenance cycle to acconmodate heavy
rainfall year rounrd.
19.       Village Centres.  Village Centres were originally conceived as
village council meeting places. Over the years, these have become centres
of village life, which not only serve as offices of the Village. Councils,
but are used for a variety of activities - educational and social.  Handi-
craft and sewing classes, agricultural and livestock extension programs,
family planning instruction courses, etc. are held there. Village organi-
zations like cooperatives, youth clubs, etc. also use these premises. Some
are equippped to provide recreational facilities viz. T.V., radio, etc.
For the Village Improvement program, Village Development Officers would
use them as discussion and meeting places.
20.       Each selected Village Council Area would be provided with a small
village hall, 30 ft x 16 ft, which has a small office, 14 ft x 9 ft, a
small store and a toilet. A boundary wall ard a gate with a small access
road would be built.  Furniture (chairs and a table) would also be prov-ded.
21,.      The costs estimated by the Development Works Corporation, are
Mau Rs 45 per sq. ft.  Total cost of a centre including sanitary fittings, elec-
trification and some furniture is estimated to be JS$ 7,273. The cost also
includes the cost of a toilet block, yard paving and boundary wall. The
labor component is estimated at 32% which represents about 2,275 man-days
of labor for each centre. Foreign exchange costs are estimated to be 40%.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
22.       Annual maintenance cost including minor repairs for each unit is
estimated at US$ 140. The village centres already constructed are now
maintained by the District Councils and so no difficulty is envisaged in
the maintenance of these new centres.
23,       Village Market Centres.  Absence of proper market facilities
and poor roads are disincentives to production of vegetables and fruits
in the villagerstbackyards and to intensive farming on small-holder farms.
Open spaces and verandahs of village shops are used as village markets,
but these are difficult to use during the rains. Where necessary market
centres would be constructed in each Village Council area.  Each centre
would have sections for groceries, fruits and vegetables, milk, meat and
fish; toilet facilities and a small office for the Market Inspector. The
total area would be 1,536 sq. ft. Furniture for the office would also
be provided.
24.       Cost estimates, which include recent material and direct labor cost
increases, are estimated to be US$ 6,882 for each market centre. Labor
costs are estimated at 32% and represent about 2,165 man-days of labor.
Foreign exchange costs are estimated to be 40%.
25.       Annual maintenance cost of a market centre is estimated to be
us$ 14o.  As the market centres would be used by sellers of agriculture
produce and shop-keepers, it is expected that they would provide sufficient
rent to cover annual management and maintenance costs.
Rural Health Centres.  At present, general outpatient servies in
the rural areas are provided in village dispensaries and by mobile clinics.
Preventive health services are available at health offices, and special
services, in maternal and child health centres. These services arc frag-
mented ond inefficient.  Since villages cannot obtain
ell the services at one place there is considerable inconvenience time
loss in getting from one place to another. To integrate these services
the government has a program to establish 30 rural health centres, 19
being programmed for their First Plan period.    Basic health services
such as family planning, maternal and child care, institutional rtidwifery,
imuntnization, nutrition and health education, environimental health and
-eneral curative services will be pxovided at the centre and the necessary
staff Z Appendix 7.4I   7 provided.  Each dentre would have the services
ot one dcctor fer half a day and the services of dentist, a dental
assistant, a nursing officer and a Senior Health Inspector for a half a
day on every alternate day. This would mean a distribution of one doctor
to about 52,000 persons, and a dentist, a health officer, and a nursing
officer to about 104,000 persons. 5 rural health centres, which fall
within the Proiect area would become part of this program and would each
service abo'ut 26,000 persons or about 5,000 households. Tne rest of the
ce..tres in other rural ares would be the Goverrmert's responsibility. As



ANNEX 7
page 7
the Government is negotiation with UNICEF for equipment for the health
centres, it is proposed to finance cost of building and furniture in
this Project. Each centre would have two main buildings each 100 ft x
45 ft., nurses quarter 70 ft x 40 ft and a doctors quarters, 50 ft x
30 ft. A boundary wall and a gate would also be built. The specifi-
cations and drawings for this work would need to be approved by the
Association.
27.       Costs based on siNCLar buildings contructed by the Deielopment
Works Gorporation, are estimated to be Mau Rs 45 sq. ft. of floor area inclusive
of boundary wall and a gate. Total cost of a centre including sanitary fittings,
electrification and furniture is estimated at US$118.150. The labor compcnent
is estimated at 32% representing about 38,000 mwn-days of labor.  Foreign
exchange costs are estimated to be 40%.
28.       Annual management and maintenance cost inclusive of expenditure for
staff, stores and drugs (CApendix 7.0  ,       is ertimated to be US$ 25,QO
for each unit. No difficulty in administering this program is anticipated
since it is under the control of the MInistry of Health which already has
considerable experience in administering such centres.
29.       Public Water ta ps.   Except for a few villagers
who can afford water connections to their houses, the rest are dependent on
a few free public water taps operating for about 6 hours a day. Since the
number of tape is inadequate, there are often long queues of people who
wait on average, half an hour to get one or two buckets of water (4 to 8
gallons). This amount is insufficient to meet their dai2y minimum requirement.
Construction of additional free public water taps to the existing supply line
would provide about 15 gallons of water per person, per day, which is
adequate for their daily needs.
30.       An additional 1,050 public water capa to provide one tap for 50
persons or about 10 households world be constructed in appropriate locations
in the selected villages. The work would consist of laying about 200 yards
of 3/4"l pipe, connecting this to the existing main, provision of spring-
loaded water taps to prevent wastage of water and the construction of a
4 ft. x 6 ft. deep absorption pit. During appraisal,an assurance was given
by the Central Water Authority that present supply and distribution facilities
are adequate.
31.       Costs are estimated to be US$ 133 per installation.  Thij would
cover the cost of providing and laying 200 yards of pipe, provision of spring
loaded water taps and construction of a concrete absorption pit. Tbe labor
component is estimated to be 30% and the foreign exchange cost 55%. About
40 man-days are required for on installation.
32.       Annual maintenance by the Central Water Authority is estimated
to cost US$ 28 per installation. This is based on the assumpti'n that one
plumber and one laborer would be sufficient to maintain at lerst 30 instal-
lations.



ANNhEX 7
Page ?
33.       Self-help Projects.    Self-help projects in each selected
village would be prepared and executed by the villagers with the assistance
and guidance of the Village Development Officers (VDO). Each Village
Development Officer in consultation with various village organizations
would prepare a shelf of self-help projects. Each project would benefit
as many poor villagers as possible. All labor required oiould be contri-
buted free by the villagers, particularly those benefitinR from the project.
Materials up to US$ 2,77e ?, u's Rs 15,000) would be provided free of coNt
to each selected village for self-help projects. These projects are expected
to include fencing of fodder ;xeas, construction of fish-ponds, fiah-landing
stations in the lagoor. i, community bus-shelters, recreation fields, fruit
and fire-wood tree plantings, etc.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
34.       Guideline  Preparation.   Based on the plan guidelines of the
Government the relevant NLnistry, Corporation and Authority would prepare
and forward to the Rural Development Unit lists of possible suo-projects for village
improvement and include with them available cost estimates and information
concerning the availability and suitability of land for smallholder farming.
This procedure however would usually apply to the subsequent phases of
village development. In the first phase, the Development Works Corporatin*,
which would be the principal executirn  agency, would submit to the Pural
Development Unit the cost estimates of the sub-projects including the village
improvement segments, and the cost of materials for the self-help projects.
At the same time, the Village Councils would formulate their own plans for
self-help projects.
35.       The Rural Development Unit would then review the sub-
projects and place its recommendations before the Rural DevelDnment CoLvmittee
together with suggested budgets for each Village Council area.  The Rural
Development Committee would set guidelines and indicate suitable village
improvpment projects and designate an annual project buLget for each Village
Council Area.
36.       De-centralized Planning and Project Initiation.   A system of de-
centralized planning and evaluation, as explained in paras 38 to 40, would
be adopted for the subsequent phases of development. For this Project, the
Local Councils and villagers would be informed about the scheduled items
and their proposals sought on the self-help projects, This is expected to give
the villagers a sense of participation    and also improve future managerial
and planning abilities in the villages, particularly at local government
level.
37.       To assist the councils, Village Development Officers (Appendix 7.5)
would be appointed to each Village Council area, and a Senior
Village Development Officer (S.V.D.O.  Appendix 7.5    3 to each District
Council.  The S. V.D.O's would also work in the Rural Development Unit and
act as liadson officers between this Unit and the Councils.  They would be
assisted by an economist. Eventually, when the rural development program
gathers momentum, it may be necessary to strengthen the village development
staff. An appropriate training course would be arranged at the University



.NNEX 7
Page 9
of MAuritius for the V.DIO.'s as soon as the projact is approved.    The
Durse woul.d provide the VOD.O. s with a working knowledge of rural
reconstruction, rural institutions. economics, planning, projact-preparation
and human relations. ( Amrandix 7.6 )-
38.       The Village Development Officers living in the Village Council
areas would survey the villagers' needs, the existing physical facilities,
and in association with the various village organization, would prepare
a list of suitable projects with their costs estimates. The Village
Councile would consider the plans and would convey their views on the
selection, priority and phasing of projects within their designated budget,
to the Senior Village Development Officers, who would then examine the
proposal further. The District Councils would review the final plans and
g've their views on the projects, their priority and phasing. These views
would then be forwarded to the Rural Development Unit, together with the
recommendations of the Village and District Councils.
39.       Sub-Project Preparation and Approval.    On receipt of the village
development plans and recommendations, the Rural Development Unit would
transmit these to the Development Works Corporation and executing Ministries
if any, ?or preparation of specifications and detailed cost estimates.
40.       The Rural Develc!pment Unit, on receipt of the details and camrtent.s
from the Deve'opment Works CorDoration and the Ministries, would place the
village improvesmnt plans with the views of the Thit, b3fore the Rural De-:-
elopment Committee. This Committee would consider ar,d approve sub-p-roects
and its decist'on would be coimmnicated to the Village and District Councics,
Development Works Corporation, and the Ministries. For the first phase,
the Loaal Conmcils would be provided with information about construction
of the schaduled i',ems.
41.        The Development Works Corporation would tranwmit schedules of
construction to the relevant Ministries, Local Councils and Villa;e Develop-
ment Officers.   This would enable the  Councils and the Ministries to
prepare their budget estimates for operation, manageacnt and iraintenance of
completed projects.
42.    - Self-Help Brojectas    Each Village Development Officer in caneul-
tation witl v-rious viage organizations would identify and pla, _> f-hlp
projects. All the laborrequired'for these projects would be contributed
voluntarily by the villagers and materials worth Mnu Ps 15,000  wouId },e
provided by the Project as a grant througt the Development Works Corporaticn.
The Village Council would select projects and transmit thece through Senior
V.D.O.'s to the Project Manager of the Rural Development Unit who would be
responsible for final selection.



ANNEX 7
Page 70
VI.  COST ESTIMATES 0? VTLLAGE IMNOVEHENT COMPONENTS
43.       Village improvement cost estimates are shown in the following
table. The costs for all items except self-help projects includes lahor.
TABLE 2
Summary of Village Imnrovement Component Cost Estimates 1
___'000---
--   Mau Rs ---------   ----------   -------- Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  'oreign  Total Exchange
CoTr.onent
1. Access & Internal Roads  7,240   4,350   11,590   1,340         800   2,140   37
cj. Village Centres             750     460    1,210      140       90     230   37
3. Market Centres              720      430    1,150      130      80      210   38
4. Public W.qater-taps         380      410      790       70      80      150   53
v. Lealth Centres            2,150   1,730    3,880       400     320      720   44
6. Self-Hielp                   320     970    1,290       60     180      240   75
7. Administration _/                  ---ac    2,8)l     -20      _               -
2-ub-Total               14,400   8,       22,750   2,60   1,50   .210   37
1, ?i-,res have been rounded.
°. Fstirateed at 14`h of investrent cost.
VII. MAINTENANCE AND RECURRTRG EXPENDITURE
44.         The village roads, village centers and village markets would be
maintained by the District Councils and the public water-taps by the Central
Water Authority with funds received as grants from Government. The rural
health centers would be maintained by the MLnistry of Health. The estimated
annual cost of maintenance is about US$ 201,000.



ANNEX 7
Page 11
TABLE 3
Estimated Annual Maintenance Cost
Annual Maintenance Annual Maintenance
cost per unit     cost for each item
Units      -Mau Rs --- US$--- - Mau Rs --TIS$'000
1. Village Roads                 190 miles  1,080       200        205        38
2. Village Centres                29           750      i4o         22         4
3. Village Markets                29           750      140         22         4
4. Rural iHealth Centres           5           135       25        675       12j
5. Public Water-taps           1,050           150       28        158        30
1,082      201
VIII. BEEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
45.         The construction of roads, village centers, market places,
additional public water-taps and the establishment of rural health centers
would improve the physical condition of the poor villages and improve the
quality of life of the villagers. Improvement of village roads would facili-
tate access to cities by extending bus routes to the villages, would stimulate
economic activity and improve emnployment prospects by increasing the mobility
of villagers. The village centers would provide a place for agriculture and
livestock extension program., family planning instruction courses, meeting
places of cooperatives, youth organizations and the Village Councils. Estab-
lishment of village market centers complemented by ixproved roads would provide
incentive to villagers' production of vegetables and fruit. The rural health
centers, would provide at one place all basic medica.l services such as family
planning, maternal and child care, midwifery, iiiunization, nutrition, health
education, environmental health and curative services. Additional water-taps
would provide about 15 gallons of water per person to neet household and persona'
needs. The self-help projects would give villagers an ispatus to improve
their conditions by using their own labor, stimulate their interest and increase
their sense of partioipation in the project.
46.         About 35% of the rural population (about 130,000 persons) would
benefit from the improvement of the common facilities like roads, village
centers, market centers and health centers and some 20C of the rural population
from the poorest households, would benefit from the construction of additional
water-taps and self-help projects. The latter would also be able to improve
their productive capacity since they would receive land in the bench terracing
sub-project and rights to fodder collection in the fodder growing sub-project.



ANWI 7
Page 1Z
The scheduled items are expected to create 3,600 temporary adult equivalent
lob opportunities. ,L400 in the first year, continuing in the second year
with an additional 800 ( APPOn4i7.9
47.         Since moot of the benerits will be in the n-iture of direot con-
3nupt3.on benefits of non-nartoeted uez7vioes (bc,ler healtli care, easier access
to water, more social activities, etc.), no attempt ha, beten made to q aBnti.f
them,} and thereLore no economic rats of return has been calculated.  Ilo3uever,
,rn attemp' trill be iradep through a system of monitoring and evaluati.; des-
cribed in Annex33 to asscss ox pos- tbc imravt of tho village imFrovetwc;it
program thirough various ir.diators (including inoo-ac) ot the welfere of
villagers.



ANNEX 7
APPENIX 1
Page 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Identification of Village Property Profile
1.  Name of Village Council Area
2.  Name of Village Locality
3.  Population of the Village Locality
4.  Number of households
5.  Land and Agriculture:
(a) Number of villagers owning land
(b) Acreage - Main crops
- Secondary crops
6.  Occupation Group - Agriculture (No. working in Agriculture)
7.  Number of villagersgrowing vegetables in kitchen gardens
8.  Number of villagers growidng fruits for-sale viz. litchi, mango, coconut,
banana, etc.
9.  Livestock:
Cattle
Goats
Pigs
Poultry
Rabbits
10. Manpower
(a)  Employment
Skilled
Unskilled
(b) Unemployment
(i)  Number of unemployed by martial status and sex
Group 1 widowed, divorced, separated
Group 2 married
Group 3 single
(ii) Duration of employment (Males/Females)
'iii) Duration of employment - age groups (12-14, 15-19, 20-44, 45)
(iv)  Unemployed/first job seekers by Level of Education age group
and. sex
(v)   Unempployed by date of last employment and sex



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 1 ;
Page 2
11. Village infrastructure
(i) Water
Number of public water-taps outside living quarters more than
100 metres distance.
(ii) Health facilities
(a) Visit of mobile clinic per week.
(b) Dispensary/Hospital
kc) Family Planning Clinic/Centre
12. Village Centres (Yes/No)
13. Roads and Transportation
(a) Roads
Village roads (in feet)
Dry weather roads
Road passable by car
(b) Transportation
Availability of taxis
Bus routes
14. Types
(i) Straw-huts
sound
deteriorating
dilapidated
(ii) Buildings on foundations
sound
deteriorating
dilapidated
(iii) Buildings not on foundations
sound
deteriorating
dilapidated
15. Electricity
Number of living quarters used as principal residence with or without
electricity
16. Village Organizations
(a) Cooperatives
Credit & Tea Marketing Cooperative Society
Agricultural and Pig Marketing Cooperative Society
Cooperative Credit Societies
Cooperative Store
(b) Socio-Cultural
Agricultural Youth Clubs, Scouts Groups, Boys/Girls Clubs



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 1
Page 3
17. Education Facilities
(a) Primary Schools
Shift system (Yes/No)
(b) Secondary schools
(c)  Vocat[i:&it Centres
18. Agricultural Extension Service
Visit by Extension/Stock Officer per annum
19. Agricultural Market Place and Shop
20. Training and Instruction
Sewing and embroidery
Child care
Home Economics
21. Recreational Facilities
Parks
Football ground
Volleyball
Public television
Cinema
22. Telephone
Telephone - public
- private



ANNEX 7
APPENDIt 2
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Measurement of Poverty Profile of Village Localities and Village Council Area
Name of Village
Council  Area             Name of Villages
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE        Weights                     Weights                     Weights
Percentage - 20 above   100
- 15 - 19     75
- 10 - 14     50
-  5 -  9     25
UNDER_-EPLOYMT
of WORK FORCE
Average % of Potantial
(22 days worked)
Percentage -  0 - 25    100
- 26 - 50     50
- 51 - 75     25
PHYSICAL FACILITIES
No Village Centre         20
No Village Clinic         20
No Mobile Clinic          10
No Village Market         20
No Electricity            10
No Telephone               5
No Public Television       5
No Bus                    10
No Taxi                    5
No Recreation Field        5
SCHOOLS
None                      20
Shift system              10
DRY WEATHEB ROAD
Percentage - 50 & above  20
- 30- 49      10
- 10 -29       5
WATER
(Outside living quarters
more than 100 metres)
Percentage -  0 - 25       5
- 26 - 50     10
- 51 -100     20
HOUSES
(Sound houses as %
of total houses)
Percentage -  O-- 25      20
- 26 - 50     10
-51 -100        5
Total        395



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 3
Page 1  
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Names of Selected Village Council Areas and Village Localities
I.       District Council "NORTH" (Pamplemouses and niviere Du Rempart)
Name of Village Council Area                 Name of Village Localities
1. Riviere du Rempart                        Hermitage
La Clemence
Pointedes Lascars
Pave
2. D'Epinay                                  Petit Rosalie
Camp Creole
Jouvence
Mon GouLt
3. Petit Raffray                             St. Francois
Camp Domaingue
Pavillion
Reunion Maurel
Moulin a Vent
Petit Paquet
Pave
Camp Yalheureux
4. Ville Bague                               Petit Julie
Pont Praslin
Ville Bague
5. Calebasses                                 Vieme Mille
Khoyratty
Calebasses
Camp Badamiers
6. Terra Rouge                                Bois Marchand
Riche Terre
St. Joseph
Le Hochet
Terre Rouge
Mlle Laure
Bois Pignolet
7. Esperance Trebuchet                       Esperance Trebuchet



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 3
Page 2 .
8. Poudre D'Or Hamlet                        Poudre d'Or Hamlet
9. Plaine des Papayes                        Gowsal
Plaine des Papayes
II.       District Council "CMf=RE" (MOKA - FLAQ)
10. G.R.S.A.                                  Quinze Arpents
Beau Champ
Quartier
G.R.S.E.
. Bel Air/Riviere Seche                    Ernest Florent
Petit Bois
La Lucie Roy
1   Olivia                                 Louis Renaud
Camp Jackry
Olivia
Plaine Banes
La Commune
La Nourrice
13. Bon Accueil                              Quatre Bords
Grand Bas Fond
Lalmatie
Grande Retraite
14. Petite Riviere                           Richelieu
Allee Tamarin
15. Moka                                     Moka
Mont Ory
16. Bambous                                  Bambous
III.      District Council "SOUTH" (GrandPbrtand Savanne)
17. Trois Boutiques                          Malakoff
Plein Bois
Sauveterre
Cam Esnouf
Carreau La Paille
Carol
Beau Fond
18. Bois des Amourettes                      Providence
Bois des Amourettes
Anse Jonche



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 3
Page 3
19. Grand Riviere Ncire                     Grande Riviere Noire
La Preneuse
20. L'Escalier                              Camp Tagore
La Sourdine
Carmp La Hache
21. Tamarin                                 Tamarin
22. Case Noyale                             Coteau Raffin
Case Noyale
Petit Riviere Noire
La Gaulette
23. Mare Tabac                              Jolis Bois
Mare Tabac
24. Old Grand Port                          Old Grand Port
Kenya
25. Bel Air                                 Bel Air (Grand)
Bel Air (Petit)
26. Plaine Magnien                          Plaine Magnien
27. Rivierides Creoles                      Riviere des Creoles
28. Mahebourg                                Ville Noire
29. Chamarel                                Chamarel



ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 4
Page 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff required for manrnng one health centre           Annual Cost
-2 MIedical Officer                                  Mau Re 10,000
i4 Dentist                                                   5,000
Dental Assistant                                            800
1/8 Senior District Nursiing Officer                         1,650
i  District Nursing Officer                                  2,000
1  Senior Midwife                                            5,500
4 M4idwives                                                 12,000
3  Nursing Officers                                         12,000
1  1-ield Worker FairrLy Planning                            3,000
A  Senior Health Inspector                                   3,000
1  Health Inspector                                          6,ooo
1  Field ',?orker                                            3,000
1  Dispensing Assistant                                      2,500
1  Record Clerk                                              5,000
½  Clinical Assistant                                        1,250
6  Servants                                                 12,000
1  Milk Girl                                                 2,500
87,200
+ 12% increase in salary                                    Lo,464
Total staff cost                                          97,66h



AVNEX 7
APPENDIX 4
Page 2
Other recurrent costs
Maintenance of building                                 5 ,OO
Stores and Drugs                                       30,000
Fuels, travelling, electricity power                    21000
Mau Rs 37,000
Total running cost                                    134,6611 (US$25,00C'
*  Excluding UNFPA/UNICEF supplies for FamiLly Planning and MICH.



ANNEX 7
APPEN)TIX 5
Page 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVEIOPIMET FROJECT
Functions of Village Development Officers and Senior
Village Development Officers
1.          Village Development officers (V.D.O.).    A Village Development
Officer would be appointed for each Village Council area. He would be either
a high school graduate, with proven ability in organizing and assisting
villagers, or with a degreee from a recognized university.  The graduate V.D.O.'s
would be responsible for large Village Council Areas and would receive higher
salaries. Eventually, when the program gathers momentum, it may be necessary
to have Divisional village Development Officers who could be selected from
the graduate V.D.O. s. The V.D.O.s would live in a village in the Village
Council Area and among others carry out the following functions:
a. Assist the villagers and the Village Councils to assess their
needs and help them to identify and prepare suitable village
development projects within the overall plan guidelines
indicated by the Rural Development Committee. He would
process the village improvement plans through the Village
Councils.
b. Act as the liaison officer between varioue Government agencies,
and the Village Councils and village organizations including
cooperatives to obtain necessary technical and advisory
assistance for them. He should be an adviser and an organizer.
c.  Help the villagers to re-orient their thinking to development
and productive activities including the execution of schemes
on a self-help basis.
d. Would closely work with the Development Work Corporation to
coordinate project execution at village levels, remove ary
bottlenecks with the assistance of Senior Vrillage Development
Officers and submit monthly progress reports to them on (a)
the construction program, (b) maintenance of completed
projects, (c) other village improvement activities and (d)
assist the Village Councils and other village organizations
in the maintenance of completed projects.
2.          Senior Village Develo4ent Officers (S.V.D.O.).   The Senior
Village Development Officers would be appointed in the Rural Develqpment Unit
for each District. They would ordinarily be university graduates in any one
of the social sciences and would have at least 3 to 5 years of working experience



ANNEX 7
-2-
Page 2
in the villages. They should have proven ability in organizing, coordinating
and leadership. They would carry out the following duties:
a.  guido, supervise, and coorLi nate the work of the village
Development Officers;
b.  promote the central theme of the rural reconstruction
program and make it understood and acceptable to the
villagers so that they will give their full support and
cooperation;
c.  coordinate, examine and process the village improvement
plans through the District Councils;
d. be the liaison officer between the Rural Development Unit,
the District Councils, Village Councils and the villagers;
e. would closely work with the Development Works Corporation
and other Ministries at the District and Village level for
the project execution and with agencies concerned for the
operation and maintenance of complete projects;
f.  submit monthly progress reports on (a) corotruction of
projects, (b) maintenance of projects, and (c) other village
improvement activities; and
g.  assist the Project lanager Rural Development Unit, in
the secretariat and administrative activities.



ANNEl 7
APPENDIX 6
Page 1
MPJURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT FROJECT
Training Program of Village Develcpment Officers (VDO's)
To provide opportunity for VDO's to identify and solve current
problems, it is considered desirable that they receive training in the
University of Mauritius concurrent2y with their work in the villages. Of
the six working days each week, they would spend four in the villages and
two at the University. The duration of the course would be about 60 hours
in 10 training days of 5 weeks. The following is the proposed course out-
line:
Course Outline
1.        The Rural Reconstruction Program (6 hours)
- aims and objectives
- methods
- structure and organization
- role and duties of VDOs
- concept of leadership (2 hours) in the context of the
role of the VDO and the Program.
2.        General situation in the rural economy of Mauritius (6 hours)
- population; age; sex; marital status
- labor force; employment; unemployment; industrial and
occupational distribution
- education
- health
- infrastructure; water; power, communications
3.        Analysis of the economy of a typical village (6 hours)
- economic units, system of production
- source of income, household self-sufficiency
- distribution system, organization of markets
- external trade with rest of island
4.        Rural institutions - Village & District Councils, Cooperatives,
Sugar Industries Labor IWatfare Fund (6 hours)
- development
- structure
- activities and inter-relationships



AINEX 7
ipp'F'Qfl 6
Fage z
5.        Interaction of central government Ministries with villagea.
(To be discussed in lectures by representatives of all Ministries involved
in village life) (10 hours)
Each Ministry should provide information on:
- present availability of services in rural areas (statistics
on norms of service of service availability)
- gaps in services
- outline of future plans for extension of services
6.        Intensive crash courses in the identification of deficiencies
in and opportunities for development in such fields as: (18 hours)
- Agriculture and animal husbandry
- Water storage, reticulation and irrigation
- Manpower - jobs, education and training
- Small-scale industry
- Health, sanitation and family planning
- Roads, drainage and lighting
- Special life-Youth clubs, libraries, sport grounds, etc.
7.        Preparation of project submissions:  (4 hours)
- procedure
- justification
- cost estimation
- calculation of labor inputs
8.        Basic principles of management, human relations and leadership
(3 hours)
9.        Public speaking:  (I hour)
Total number of hot.rs: 60



ANNEX 7
Appendix 7
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Number of man-days for Construction of Village Improvement Components/l
Estimated    Estimated    Total No.    Estimated         Total No.      Total No.
Quantity   of Estimated   Quantity       of Estimated  Estimated       Total
man-days    of work in  man-days in   of work in    man-days in   Quantity    Estimated   % of
Item of work               per unit    1st year       1st year      2nd year        2nd year       or work     man-days   Labor
1. Village Roads
(a) Improvement        2,320        46 miles   106,720          68 miles        157,760      114 miles    264,480        40
(b) New ConBtruction  8,000         30 miles   240,000          46 miles        368,000       76 miles    608,000        40
2.  Village Centres        2,275         12 nos.      27,300         17 nos.          38,675       29 nos.       69,975       32
3. Village Markets         2,165         12 nos.      25,980         17 nos.          36,805       29 nos.       62,785       32
4.  Rural Health Centres 38,000           2 nos.      76,000          3 nos.         114,000        5 nos.      190,000       32
5.  Public Water-taps         40        420 nos.      16,800       630 nos.           25.200   1,050 nos.       42,00         30
Total Scheduled Items                           492,800                          7404&n  21,237,240
(1, 500 L#                      (2,40uu L                  (3, 900)L2
1I  Man-days have been calculated based on pay-days of 313 days per year.
/2 Figures in bracket are man-years.



Page 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PIROJECT
BENCH TERRACING SUB-PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.        God arable land is scarce in Mauritius.  This scarcity has resulted
in patches of snallholder cultivation on very steep slopes, generally on areas
peripheral to sugarcane fields. These patches, of mountain complex soils of
varying depths, are located on slopes of between 25% and 50%. With continuing
cultivation of these steep slopes, sheet erosion is beooming a problem. Gully
erosion is, as yet, only present to a limited extent. This erosion has already
led to progressive yield reductions. For example, maize averages 1,800 lb. per
acre on good, flat land, conpared to 600 lb. per acre on eroded slopes.
II. THE PROJECT COMPONENT
2. *T minimize further erosion and indiscriminate exploitation, about
1,000 acres would be protected by bench terracing -- the only effective means
of soil oonservation on slopes of such magnitude. No accurate assessment of
the overall extent of these steep and unprotected patches has yet been made.
However, a tentative long term land utilization and crop use plan produced in
1973 estimated an area of about 13,500 acres (Map l) could be improved through
terracing.
3.        The Project would include bench terracing in these areas at the rate
of 500 acres per year for two years. Stone walls would be constructed by hand
to form a series of steps with level soil between. About 50% of the areas would
be previously uncultivated. The Development Works Corporation (DWC) would be the
executing agency. DWC labor would build the walls, level the earth and construct
access tracks. The layout and surveying of the terraces would be carried out by
trained Field Officers of the Ministry of Agriculture in suitable occupied and
unoccupied areas selected by the Ministry in conjunction with the Rural Develop-
ment Unit.
4.        Previously unuwed areas of crownland designed for bench terracing
would be leased out to suitable mnallholders from Project villages in 2 acre
holdings on a long term heritable basis with suitable credit and extension
advice to enable the growing of maize, vegetables and higher valued orchard
crops. The area to be terraed which are already ur,der cultivation would con-
tinue under their present user s but they also would benefit from advice and credit
from the Govermnent extension service. This service is currently being sub-
stantially expanded. In both cases, Government would charge an annual rent
for the capital repayment of terracing costs.
5.        Presently, cultivated areas on steep slopes are mainly devoted to poor
crops of maize and sugarcane, vegetables and a small quantity of pineapples.
After terracing, maize, pineapples and vegetable crops would oontinue to be
grown. The second year orchard crops such as mangoes, lychees, avocadoes,
pears, macadamia nuts and acme citrus would be interplanted with the food crops.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
6.         A program of terracing has been carried out by the Ministry
of Agriculture on Rodrigues Island.  Fowever. slopes are not as steep as
in Mauritius aid consquently existing techniques would need to be
modified to suit the changed circumstances on Mauritius itself. Identi-
fication of suitable areas would be based on suitability of soil and cropping
potential. In the South Eastern areas of the Island, the foothills have
magnesium clay scils of low permeability and a greater tendency to slippage.
During construction, these areas would need to be carefully supervised if
slippage is to be avoided.
7.         Layout of selected areas will be done by simple levelling methods.
Accessibility and drainage would be provided for. The bench terrace walls
would be constructed to a height of six feet using dry stcne rubble con-
struction with no mortar. The outer face would be composed of smooth stones
to give added strength and conserve space.  -alls would have an inward pitch
of about one foot in six. Soil level on the terrace would siope inward at
about 1. Ter-aces would be of a maximum length of 600 yards, draining
into natural drainage lines (Annex  , Diagram 1).   Stone for wall building
is readily available on most hill sites. It ie expected that about 5/cu yards
of stone wall would be built daily by laborers and 80 cu yards of soil moved
onto the terraces. Thus, about 750 man-davs would be required to complete
an acre of bench terracing
8.         Labor Requirements.  The labor component is high.  The employment
effect will be 1.60i  man-years during the first two years and about lhOO man-
years thereafter.  The labor requirement for stone-moving and stone-walling,
earth-mcving, access roads and ditches, are resoectively 280, 470 and 50
man-days per acre.
9.        ..ost Estimates.  The costs shown below are based on a DWC wage cost of
labor of Mau Rs 7.50 per day actually worked. Adninistrat.ive costs are estiViated at
1h% of investment cost.  Ten percent physical contingencies and 10% price
contingencies have been included. The foreign exchange conponent is 9g.
COST ESTIMATES AND FOREIG,N EXCHANGE
COMPO-TENTS
Mau Rs '000               Us$ '000
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Bench terracing                  6590     740    7330   1220       140    1360
Administration                    920       -      920    170        -     170
Physical contingencies            750      70      820   10        10     150
Subtotal              8260      810    9070   1530      150    1680
Price contingencies and
Rounding              830       80     910    150       20     170
Total                 g909      890    9980   168o      170    1850



ANNEX 8
Page 3
10.       During the Project period 500 acres will be terraced annually.
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAaDMT
11.        The Ministry of Agriculture, using staff in a strengthened
Planning Unit, would identify the areas to be bench terraced from the land
use map (Map 3-and4-l1O Th7W6oul3&des8ign and execute the field layout of the
terrace lines. DWC would be the executing agency and responsible for con-
structing the works. Under the Project, a Planning Officer would be provided
for the Planning Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture. This Unit would be
assisted by two field layout men.
12.        Choice of Farmers. The choice of farmers would be done by
Village Councilsinc1o9ns=ltation with the Ministry of Agriculture. Any
disputes would be resolved by the Rural Development Committee of the
Cabhi-et. Village Councils would draw up lists of landless families from
the poorest 20% of the inhabitants, in consultation with the Village De-
velopment Officers and local members of the Ministry of Agriculture's
extension service. Any dispute would be resolved by the Rural Development
Carmittee.
IV. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
13.        Surveys carried out by the Agricultural Marketing Board indicate
a wide range of crops are grown by wnallholders, with no particular crop
dominating. Most of this production is consumed by the family.
1h.        Given below is the expected production of crops from the Pro,ject:
Family Consumption 1/
Before        Project         Before  After    Marketed
Crop                  r      ,,ient   Production    Project Project  Output
-- - - - - M Tos - - - - -  - - - - - -
Maize                       60            300         60      120       280
Field tcmatoes             600            875         60       120      755
Mixed vegetables           300            875         60      120       755
Orchard crops                -          1000           -      100       900
1/ A typical family would consume o0.66 kg.of tomatoes and vegetables per
-   day and 0.7 kg. of maize per day.



ArnaE U 
Page 4
15.        At present Mauritius imports up to 3,000 tons of maize annually,
200 tons of mixed vegetables and 800 tons of citrus. Marketing of Project
production would continue through the Agricultural Marketing Board and
private traders. The current consumption of field tanatoes and mixed
vegetables in Mauritius is 11,000 tons respectively. No problems are en-
visaged in the marketing of Project production. The production of mixed
vegetables would replace present imports and the resultant surplus would
be some 6% of the total annual consumption of the Island. This amount
would be absorbed by population increase and an expanding tourist industry.
Citrus production would partially replace present imports and increased
planting of lychees, mangoes and avocado pears would augment present
successful shipments to Europe. Field tonatoes, an important ingredient
of local diet, would show an. increase in production of about 6% on present
consumption and would be easily absorbed by rising local demand. Increased
maize production would assist in reducing the present imports. Prices
fluctuate with varying production but are tending to increase with the
rising tourist demand and increasing population. Detailed prices of Project
output are provided irA Appendix 6 to this Annex. The value of the total
annual production at current prices would be Mau Rs 2,170,000 (US$402,000) per
annum. The value of the incremental production would be Mau Rs 1,630,000
(US$300,000).
V. BENEFITS
16.        The Project's major quantifiable benefit would be the incremented
production of maize, fruit and vegetable crops, valued at Mau D.s 1.63 million
annually at maturity. Net cash income per family, in addition to a con-
tribution towards subsistence, would be Mau Rs 1,700. The Project has a number
of less quantifiable benefits.  The limited arable land of Yauritius would
be increased by 1,000 acres of permanent, bench terraced arable land. The
terraced areas would become a significant producer of orchard crops, for
which a good local and neighboring island demand exist. The soil conserva-
tion impace of the bench terraces is important. By retaining the soil and
water on the terraced areas and contiolling erosion, the water catcbment
of these slopes would be improved not only 'n these areas but also in the
cultivated land below to which it will form a protective strip and assist
in preserving the total water harvest.
17.        Farm  %udget. Details of the farm budget are given in Appendix 1
to this Annex. Cropping would be based on 0.5 acre each of maize, mixed
vegetable, field tomatoes and orchard crops. The budget shows that at
full development (Year 9) the farner would earn an annual net cash income
of Mau Rs 1,700. It has been assumed that only half the labor requirements
would be met by the family. The land rent charged to farmers for bench
terraces would be Mau Rs 50 per acre the two first years and Mau Rs 150 thereafter.
18.        Economic Evaluation. The economic evaluation is based on the
following assumptions:



ANNEX 8
Page 5
(a) Price. The farm gate price for maize, mixed vegetables
and tree crops are estimated at respectively Mau Rs 400,
600 and 1,000 per ton.
(b) Production. The production before and after the Project
is shovn in para 1h.1h.
(c) Foreign Exchange. The cost of transport, equipment and
other material and equipment has been increased by 10%
to account for foreign exchange less import duties and
taxes.
(d) Labor. Labor used for building the terraces has been
shadow rated at Mau Rs 2.85 per day worked. Recurrent
labor cost is assumed to be Mau Rs 2.00 for the first
5 years and Mau Rs 3.00 thereafter.
(e) Opportunity Cost. The next production from the terraced
land before the Project has been included as an economic
cost.
19.       Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return based on
the above mentioned assumptions Is 14.0% (Appendix 8.2). The rate of
return is sensitive to price and cost changes. The return would be as
follows:
(a)  Cost increase by 25%             5.5%
(b)  Benefits increase by 25%        23.1%
(c)  Benefits decrease by 25%         4.8%
(d) Shadow wages increased by
31%                            10.4%
(e) Foreign Exchange not shadow
rated                           15.0%
(f) No shadow prices are used
(market prices at Feb. 1973)   5.8%
(g) No shadow prices are used
and wages increased by 31%       5.2%



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
BENCH TERRACING
MODEL FARMER'S BUDGET
(cn 2 acres terrace land)
The farm budget is based on 0.5 acres terraced land for each crop.
Yield Per Acre
Maize                                          2400 lb
Mixed vegetables                               3.5 tons
Field tomatoes                                 3.5 tons
Orchard crops                                  4 tons
Crop Sales:                  Mau Rs
A. Maize at Mau Rs 400 per ton less
2 lb per day 1200-730 = 470                  94
B. Mixed vegetables and field
tcmatoes at Mau Rs 600 per ton
less 1460 lb - 5540                        1662
C. Orchard crops at Mau Rs 1000
per ton                                    2000
Total crop sales                                    Mau Rs 3756
Cost of Production-
TCMATOES AND FIELD VEGETABLES (½ ACRE EACH)
Rent                                         150
Fertilizers
125 kg single superphosphate
50 kg potash (sulphate)
150 kg sulphate of ammonia (86) say 100



ANNJEX 8
Page 2
Man- Rs.
Farm yard manure 0 10 tons                  IOU
Seeds                                        60
Insecticides                                100
Transport of seeds, fertilizers
and products                               20
labor
Land preparation 40 man days
(Forking and tilling)                     100
Planting 20 man days                         50
Manuring including FYM                      150
Weeding                                     100
Pest Control                                 50
Harvesting                                  200
Processing products                          50
700
Half labor provided by family        700/2          350
Interest @ 6% on each -                              5o
Contingencies and terrace maintenance               150
MAIZE (i ACRE)
Rent                                            75
Fertilization per acre
100 kg sulphate of ammonia
50 kg triple superphosphate
50 kg mwuriate of potash   68              3
Seed                                             3
Trenaport                                       10



h1'¶E 8
Appendix I
Page 3
Labor                                        Mau RB
Land preparation                           50
Fertilizer application                     20
Weeding                                    5
Harvesting
Shelling                                   15
Total man days all supplied by fandly         160
Contingencies and terrace mailtenance                  13
ORCHARD CROPS ( ACRE)
Cost of 1/10 establishment costs @ 1,500
per acre                                   150
ANNUAL RUNNING COSTS
Rent                                          75
Fertilizer                                   100
Insecticides                                 100
Transport                                     50
Labor
Clearing, priming         100
Hard watering             100
Harvesting and packing    200
TOTAL                400
Half provided by family                      200
Interest on caah outlay at 6%                 50
Contingencies                                125
Orchard costs                                          850



ANNEX 8
Appendix I
Page 4
N1u Rs
TOTAL COSTS                                   2065
NET INCOME                                    1700
Until iuaturity in 9th years no income
from orchard crops
Budget until 9th year
- no orchard crops                 - 1150
+ d acre replacement mixed veg.   + 500
Differencesee
Net income budget for year 2-9
(Year one taken as half)             1000



ANNXX 8
Appendix 2
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELPMENT PROJECT
BENCH TERRACING
Economic Rate of Return
Mau Rs '000
I.  COSTS                      Year       1         2        3-5      6-8         9-35
Investment in Bench                 3,261    3,261       -        -           -
Terraces 2/
Administration                        458       458               -           -
Recurrent Cost                        271    1,085    1,TE9      1,619       1,109
Opportunity Cost of Land               35        90      107       107         107
Sub Total                      4,025    4,894    1,726      1,726      1,516
Adjustment for Labor Costs         (1,459)  (1,720)    (518)       (392)      (303)
Adjustment of Import Taxes
and Duties 4/             g/    (85)     (88)       (6)       (6)         (h)
Adjustment for Foreign Exchange        50        68       32        32          27
Total Costs                    2,531    3,15h    1,23h      1,360      1,236
II. BENEFITS 1/
Production                            283    1,131    1,695      1,695       2,170
Total Benefit                    283    1,131    1,695      1,695       2,170
III. NET BENEFIT (Cost)                  (2,2h8)  (2,023)      461       335         934
Rate of Return 14.o%
1/ Disruptions to production during the construction of the terraces have been allowed
for as follows:  it is assumed that, of the 500 acres terraced in each of year 1 and
2, one third produced no output, one third produced a year's output before being
terraced, and one third produced a year's production after being terraced.
2/ Includes 10% physical contingencies.
3/ Labor for investment work shadow priced at Mau Rs 3.50. Recurrent labor cost is
assumed to be Mau Rs 2.00 for the first 5 years and Maii RPs .00 thereafter.
4/ Import taxes and duties on transport equipment, fertilizers and other materials
is assumed to be 23%, 0% and 5% respectively.
5/ Foreign exchange expenditures are increased by 20%.



ANNX 9
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEWL-OW f PROJa3Cr
DisEbursement Schedule
---- us$ 0o ----
END           CTIMULAT~IVE        3ALANCE
PROiLC  TEAR.         OF              AMOUT               CF
QUARTER         DISBURSED           CF5DIT
1                1                                  4,000
2                 _               4,000
3                50               3,950
1.4             300               3,700
2                 1                700               3,300
2             1,100               2,900
3             1,600               2,40o
4             2,100               1,900
3                 1              2,650               1,350
2             3,350                 65o
3             3,700                 300
4             4,000                   0



ANNEE 1Q
Page 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMEINT PROJECT
Accounting and Auditing Procedures
Expenditure Approval and Re-allocation of Funds
1    .    The Rural Development Committee would approve annual expenditure of
various categories of tne Project based on the detailed cost estimates sub-
mitted by the Development Wiorks Corporation. The Rural Development Committee's
approval would be required for re-allocation of funds bet-ween segmients of
village improvement category (excluding funds for self-help projects) by re-
lease of surplus from any of them to meet short-falls in others. This would
be on the basis of quarterly progress and expenditure reDorts (Pa . 6 (iv)
The Associaticnss approval would be required for re-allocation of funds
between different categories of the Project.
Release of Funds
2         Funds would bE releas-.d  niiartor1.v in nATvnce ef tll^       .-:t U,:::
Corporation by the Ministry of Finance on stbmissicn cf the following:
(a) a quarterly estimate of expenditure requirement with forecast
for each quarter inclusive of the funds designated for the
purchase of materials for self-help segments.
(b) a detailed statement of receipts and actual expenditure
of the previous quarter with an up-to-date cumulative
expenditure for each category.
Accounts
3         The Accountant General is resoonsible for maintenance of accounts and
payments, in accordance with -Iovernment rieneral Crders, Financial and Stores
Orders. However, these functions have been delegated to major Ministries and
agencies including the Development kIorks Corporation.  The Development ;Jorks
Corporation has an Accountant, supported by a complement of staff, including
one Finance Officer seconded from the Ministry of Finance,and Government rules
are followred. The present procedures appear to be satisfactory, and would be
adopted for the Project.
Audit
4         Pre Audit:  In the Development Works Corporation prior +  -- rents,
all vouchers supported by noccscary documents are ch-eck-ed by the examination
brarch.  It ensures that all cxpenditures have been properly Lnc:.red and
are covered by sanction of appropriate authority.



AN::DX 10
Page c
5.         External Audit:  All Government s aconlmts inclusive of th.e
DevelopEent Works Ccrocration, are exaTlhned by the officers of Covern.-
ment's Director of Audit.  The auditing is done on a continuous audit systprn.
An annual report of the Director on Government's accounts is tabled in the
Legislative Assembly and all shortcarings reported are examined by its
Public Accounts Ccr'nittee.  The audit report on the Development works
Corporation is addressed to the Ministry ~' Eployment and is tabled in
the Tegislative Assembly.
6.         Procedural ThDrovements for DWrl.  While generally satisfactory,
the present acco7ilzng and auditing procedures of DNG would follow the
procedures described below for Project WIorks.
(i) The accounting section of the Develonnent Works Corporation
would keep separate accourts for Pr-oect IWorks, maintaining
the follo-wng ledgers:
(a) Main Crash nocek- indicating separately expenditures to
be covered by IDA credit and those to be met from
local funds;
(b) ,ral  s cf Expenditures- showing detailed expenditure
under varicus categories;
(c) Subsidiarv Cash Book fo:- ipaid 'wages;
(d ) :\CcThPT4To  food distributed with cost;
(e) l,ed er Accounts for creditcrs;
(f)  to   -     e ;eoei    receipts and issues to site
OI?T r7=Li Treach category, inclusive of
naterJals ismiied to the Village Development
Cfficers fcr self-heip segments.
;--- ?   ore .-. '   f(r self-help senents.  The Village Develop-
z^e.-. ' ;-* ::r,;.s   t.he accounts of materials received from
= :r;<1J. ;;rKs  crporation and issued for the self-help
e.t staff would at least monthlv, conduct
-LC'.ks cn. la'zor (tLre-sheets) of all
--s wo:ld be carried cut by internal
c.. retulrns prepared for charterir.n
.- ' r rentlrn._ of trucks for transportation
-1it staff wculd, each a arter,
''f_:'I, -3teraals at the Development
<lo in.) quarterly reports would bpe submitted to
!; .t.t . et Unit by tne Develoynent lbrks Corporation
- aln of the aural Dvelounent Ccmnittee:
nf,pn.i.itue-: 'eport- would provide information on location,
<t   .e; uC(>st cf fcod distributed to the workers,
-n 'oe½ issued to the sites and other
t Ar O,J     , ru:treri  tcta.i expenditure with explana-
.   variance with estimates (unit costs), and
_emui.ativc expentiture to date;



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(b) Progress Report.  Showing physical progress of work
andi cmulative total Appendix 10.1.
(c) Expenditure & Progress Reports of self-help segments.
Village Development Officers wotdd submit quarterly
reports providing information on location, nature of
project, cost Of materials, materials received and
used, cost of labor provided on self-help basis,
physical progress of work and target date of completion.
Copies of these reports would be sent to the Accountant,
Development thrks Corporation and Rural Development Unit.
(v) Reports to IDA.  Quarterly work reports on progress and
expenditure wolUd be consolidated in the Rural Development
Unit, and transmitted to the Association with explanations
on shorfalls in the executions and variations in expenses.
(vi) External Audit. All Project accounts would be subject to
annual external audit by officers of the Director of Audit
and audited accounts would be submitted to the Association
not later than six months follouing the close of the fir-'ncial
year.



hANNX- 10.
sdi 1
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVEIPMT PROJRT
Form of Quarterjk Progress Report
District:
Village Council:                                                                Date Started:
Category:                                                                       Expected Date of Completion:
Culmulative
Physical Pro-   Physical Pro-                    'V'ariations                 Brief Pescrip-
tame and Descrip-                         gress of work   gress of Work,                    (t) with Con-               tion df Work
;ion of Work with    Date    Workers   in the current   up to the           Schedule  of   struction                    to be done
location        Started   On Site         qua-ter       current quarter Construction   Schedule           Remarks   next quarter



AN-'l.X U
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONITORING * EVALUATION
1.        The principal aims of the project are to create a substantial
amount of temporary employnent, and to improve the lot of village-dwellers,
both through the prGvision of public amenities and the fostering of productive
enterprises. Accordittgly, it is desirable both to monitor the impact ou the
labor market of the principal employing agency - the D.W.C. - and to assess
the effectiveness of the project in promoting village development.
Village Improvemer.t
2.        The village improvement component of the project is experimental
and has some elexiients of flexibility. Experience gained in the course of
implemmnting the program will assist in the design of any future extension
of the programn witlhin Mauritius. Since it has not been possible to estimate
the benefits of the_Frogram ex ante, it is essential to measure these--as far
as possible--ex post.  For these reasons it is proposed? thit "before" and
"after" studies-be made of social and economic conditions in villages and
village households.
3.        The selection of villages for inclusion in the improvement scheme
was done on the basis of a "poverty index" - essentially a weighced average
of numerical and arbitrarily-scaled qualitative indicators of poverty.  The
index was constructed on the basis of information extracted from the recent
.lousing and Population Census and by surveys conducted by Village Devclopment
Officers. The information available - only part of which was used in construc-
ting the poverty index - is listed in Table 1 of Annex 7.  This information
(whlich pertains to mid-1972) is available for every village in the island, and
provides an obvious base-line from whiclh changes in village characteristics
can be mneasured.  Ilenice it is proposed that one monitoring task should be (a)
the selection of a sample of villages included in the improvement schema, and
a sample of poor villages not included. both samples (b) to be surveyed at tlhe
conclusion of the project, so as to measure changes in the villiage ciaracteris-
tics.  Scme of the characteristics measured - such as availability of amrenities-
will be altered directly as a result of the project. Others - such as employ-
inent, production activities, sociocultural factors - will be affected indirectly
by the project.
4.        However, in order to assess the impact of the project on the lives
of villagers, it will be necessary to focus enquiries on the village householJd,
as well as on the village as a whole.  it is therefore proplosed that as soon as
possible, and at any rate before the village improvenient scheme has got underway



Page 2
to any extent, a socio-economic survey be conducted on a random sample of
village households affected by the program, and on a control group of households
outside the selected villages. Inforrivation would be collected on a variety of
matters, including income, employment, household production activities, living
conditions, use of communal facilit:ies, participaticn in social organizations
and activities, etc; social attitudes would also be probed. The sec¢1n_. urvev
would not merely be aZrepetition of the first, but would attempt to explore in
some detail how the fimily's work and leisture activities had been affected by
the project.
Employment
5.        In consonance with the employment-creation aim of the project,
guidelines, acceptable to the Mauritius Governinnet, have been established
regarding the appropriate mix of workers to be recruited to the DWC. Both
to ensure that these guidelines are adhered to, and to providc data needed
to analyze and assess the impact of the ?roject on cmploy-ment more generally,
records will be required of the new workers recruited to the DWC - their age,
marital status and family responsibilities, previous work experience, education,
etc. Similar records should be made of workers lcavirig the DWZ, and the jobs
to which they are going should also be recorded. This will also be useful in
evaluating the activities of the training branch of the l)WC. A monthly return
of labor joining and leaving the DWC would be submitted by the DWC to the RDU,
where the information would be collated and analyzed.
U.        Available iudicators of labor market conditions should also be
monitored by the RDU.  These include number of registered unemployed and
known labor shortages in any particular economic activities. Since the DWC is
most directly competitive with the private construction industry, particular
attention shiould be paid to trends in employment and in wage levels, and the
eTergcnce of any labor shortage in that industry.  Such information should be
obtainred by means of special enquiries in the construction indlistry; sslient
information could be obtained from a sample of construction firms at regular-
quarterly or six-monthly - intervals.
Agricultural Co,:Tonents
Bench Te.-ri-:zi-:  i)ecords should be made of the current and recent past usage
of aI] IaaJ'  subjj-ct to bench terracing.  At the completion of the terracing
C :(puu'T!-, tle ac.tual or intended use of the terraced land should be deterivined,
.-i*-hcr hv fu1ii  cui-imration or by means of a sample survey.  Information should
,a, t1    td1ii.  - from published sources or by special survey - which will
Xrl.iile estiinac.; tu be made of the niet value of increased production from the
rurrz2ced Izind.
Fodder Plantin+-:  Tnformation should be obtained from persons receiving fodder-
h:irvvst iu.^ r ic:!h    s to livestock olned, nor,intl levels of production, anid
cLrrc;nt ¼jdder Leurces.  rxfter a year's aicess to additioral fodder, cowkeepers
)i.:u-3 be interviewed so as to record changes in livestock number and prodluction,
In the cl; ;posI L iol of production (i.e. for honru  use or for sale), and whether
J)revjous sources of fodder have been relinquished to others.



5. _rost--,        5Thu i'ro3e^t e.ffcrs a   od oo;,)O-'o.'br    in-e.l.-a    'h
e i;.   e.. re^  .   a.f.'oxet t.ti.on.  Evei;vortual cli.l.e cianL,,s :n Yor  Lov1is
t's a re;ult c.f pl.-!ta'c.ion of tho h.i.'s                   tir. thc, tov    . :old -:r-.ear  ;;imt-Ijiax
t.tn           I- C.formr-Ition o  t.'             lwjrat.iu:s. 1lu.n:id.-.ty and  C;hoCl0..   SjhcJtI.d bj
co.lJn.ez azi c.:1jI.;'                                n vith  past rco..dr. nIf .. -it on which. cou'ld be us_d to
ev.lua.e alla im-pro-v_ a>ppraisai iforkc and Iproject p.;rforaanri,  :;iiould bto colleutd.
Such infor&a-;ion  :oaljd in^lzud- ); lab:a rcqriruo;0nt. coSt.SE, area planted yealvy
cut, co-instumtion c.> wc'old and pricev of vood prouotss.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
MAtJITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
METHOD OF ECONCGMIC EVALUATION
1.         Economic evaluations were made of the three components of the
Project producing marketable output. viz, afforestation, bench terracing,
and fodder planting. The principal assumptions and methods used in these
evaluations are as follows:
2.         Unskilled labor employed by the DWC was shadow priced, for
years 1 - 5. at Mau Rs 3.50 per day actually worked, and at the full rate
thereafter.
3.         Agriculturae  labor working on bench terraced land was valued
at Mau Rs ?.OO per day for years 1 - 5, and at Mau Rs 3.00 per day
thereafter.
4.         Other labor was priced at market rates except that DWC gangmen
and drivers were treated as unskilled labor and priced at half rates.
S.         Foreign exchange costs and benefits were increased by 20 %,
reflecting t e beLief that the shadow exchange rate is 1.2 times the
official rate.
6.         Imported or exported goods were valued at their estimated c.i.f.
or f.o.b. prices converted at the shadow exchange rate. The principal
traded goods are forest products, agricultural inputs such as fertilizer
and insecticides, part of transport costs, and food air supplied by the
U.S. Sugar (some production of which will be foregone as a result of
bench terracing) was valued at its marginal f.o.b. price.
7.         Non-internationally traded goods were valued at current average
domestic prices. Vegetables. fruit and milk were regarded as non-traded
goods.
8.         Detailed justification of the prices and procedures used is given
below.
The Shadow Wage for Unskilled Labor
9.         DWC Workers.  Labor recruited by the DWC for the project will
consist of men and youths registered as being unemployed and Relief Workers:
i.e. men presently employed by the government on relief work. The appropriate
shadow wage differs as between these two groups and hence they will oe
discussed separately.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
10.        Unemployed Men and Touths.  The social opportunity cost of
employing a pretiously unemployed man is sometimes taken to be zero, on
the grounds that there is no reduction in mqrketed output elsewhere in
the economy as a consequence of his being employed on the nrodect. This
approach has not been taken here, for the following reasons:
(a) Men registered as being unemployed are not necessarily -
and not typically - completely idle and unproducoive. They may be perform-
ing useful work in the household sectc-, such as gardening, cow-keeping,
etc.; in self-employment, for example in agriculture or in petty trade;
or as casual laborers in activities that do not endanger their status as
being official'ly unemployed. It is also certain that some men on the
unemployment register are not, in fact, unexployed, but have concealed
their employment and registered as unemployed in the hope of securing a
Government job. Hence, employment of a person registered as being
unemployed will typically lead to some loss of output elsewhere in the
economy, including the household sector.
(b) To say that the opportunity cost of employing ar unemployed
man is zero igno:es the costs of working incurred by the man himself.
These include not only any output or earnings foregone (mentioned above)
but also - particularly in the case of manual work - additional food to
meet higher energy requirements and wear and tear on clothes; the costs
of transportation to and from work: and non-pecuniary costs (as perceived
by the worker) of working on this particular job rather than doing whatever
he  Ras doing previously.
11.        The approach that has been taken is to assume that the costs
mentioned in (a) and (b) above are measured by the minimum wage at wbich
workers would be willing to work on the project and ttiat the actual wage
paid in competitive and unregulated labor markets approximates to the
marginal workers' minimum supply price.  From scattered evidence it was
concluded that in Mauritius, the market wage rate for casual, unskilled
labor is probably about Mau Rs 4.00 per day.
12.        However, a nob with DWC differs in several ways from a typical
casual .4ob ii I.ht.- private sector, so it is likely that the minimum wage
required to atLr .;t workers would differ also. Sone relevant features of
DWC emploYment are as follows:
{K   1c; the present time a DWC job is de facto a permanent Job
art: m^ w.  t-inue to be so, despite the Mission's recommendation that
.;r:~; crrent be regarded as strictly temporary employment.
(p.) "t'Te cC,t;3 of the worker's transportation between his home
Ld: t2e wrk sit e is borne bv the DWC.  Powever, the travel time is likely
to 'be higher th-:n average, since DWC worksites are located all over the
island. including remote areas.
W- orking conditions and emplover-employee relations in the
DWC are probably a good deal better than average.
(d), OnDortunities for training in various skills exist in the
nwr: and these will be expanded if the project is implemented.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
(e) The work effort required of DWC workers is said to be sciie-
what less than that typically expended by similar workers in the private
sector. On the other hand, the nature of this work - road building,
construction, forestry and agriculture, with little aid from machinery -
is reasonably arduous.
13.        Because of its several advantages, DWC work can reasonably be
supposed to require less remuneration than casual work in the private
sector. Some reduction in the figure of Mau Rs 4.00 would therefore seem
appropriate. A reasonable estimate of the shadow wage for unemployed men
1/
is thought to be Mau Rs 3.50 per day..
11.        This estimate of the shadow wage applies to unemployed adult males.
A proportion of the project labor force will consist of youths. It is
assumed that a youth's work effectivenecs, expressed in adult equivalents,
is equal to the youth's wage expressed on a proportion of the adult wage.
The same asslmptlion is made regarding the shadow wage applicable to youth
workers.
15.        Relief Workers. When a relief worker is transferred to the DWC,
his output in relief work is lost to socLety.  By all accounts this loss is
snall, since these men belong to an undisciplined work force that does very
little work. The worker also incurs a cost, viz the disutility having to
work harder than he has been accustomed. The fact that few Relief Workers
have voluntarily transferred to the DWC indicates that they do perceive the
additional effort as a cost. (Wages are nominally the same for DWC and
Ralief Workers, but in fact DWJ wages are somewhat higher because of the
inclusion of a food ration the market value of which is higher than its
official valuation). However, society might quite reasonably take the view
that any cost imposed on Relief Wbrkers by virtue of requiring them to in-
crease their work effort to customary standards should not be accounted as
social loss and hence should be disregarded. On this view, the only cost
involved in transferring a Relief Worker to the DWC is the consequent loss
of output in relief work. One can only guess at the value of this output;
it has been arbitrarily valued at Mau Rs 1.50 per day.
16.        The Average Shadow  hge.  It is expected that DWC labor will be
recruited from the ranks of the unemployed and from the Relief Workers, in
the proportion of 67% and 33% respectively. The appropriate shadow prices
for these two categories of workers are estimated to be Mau Rs 3.50 and
Mau Rs 1 .50 per day. Hence, the average shadow wage for the project workforce
as a whole is Mau Rs 2.85 per day.
1/ An independent, estimate of the shadow wage of unskilled workers in
Mauritius has been made by Scott. Scott's approach, employing the Little-
Mirrlees framework of cost-benefit analysis, was rather different from that
used by the Mission. It is interesting to note that his estimate is, never-
theless, very close to the Mission's: Scott's figure is Mau Rs 3.80 per day
and is directly comparab7.e with the Mission's estimate of Mau Rs 3.50 per day
for unemployed men. (See M. FG. Scott, Estimates of Accounting Prices for
Mauritius, Nu-ffield College, Oxford, 1972, mimeo.)



ANNEX 12
Page 4
17.        The cash wage (including food aid at its nominal value) for
a DWC worker is Mau Ps 6.00 per day. When account is taken of paid public
holidays and the fact that 3 hours of work are lost each Saturday with no
loss of wages. the wage per day actually worked is Mau Rs 7.50. The shadow
wage calculated above is approximately 38% of this figure. This shadow wage
has been applied for the first five years of the project, but the full DWC
wage has been used thereafter. since it is expected that the rate of unemploy-
ment will be substantially reduced by then.
18.         A ricultural Labor.  Additional labor will be required for the more
'ntensive c iltivation of land that bench terracing will allow. The shadow wage
estimated for DWC workers is not applicable to this category of labor, for two
reasons. First, a good deal of the agricultural work will be provided by
self-employed asallholders and their families and it is observed universally
that people are willing to work on their own account in agriculture for
substantially less than the amounts they could earn in paid jobs. Second,
much of the work will be performed by women, young people and old people for
whom outside job opportunities are lacking or low-paying. It was therefore
decided to shadow price this labor at Mau Rs 2.00 per day for the first five
years of the project and at Mau Rs 3.00 thereafter.
19.        The Shadow Rate of Foreign Exchange.  The existence of trade taxes
and subsidies means that the official exchange rate may not measure accurately
the domestic value of a unit of foreign exchan.e, even though it equlibriates
the supply and demand for foreign exchange. In such cases, a shadow rate of
foreign exchange (or foreign exchange premium or discount) mav be estimated
bv comparing the domestic prices with the border (i.e., c.i.f. or f.o.b.)
prices of an aDpropriately weighted collection of traded goods.
P0.        In Mauritius, many imports are subject to import duties.  In recent
years. total import duties collected amount to 16% of the c.i.f. value of
total imports. Pence, if an increment of foreign exchange were to be spent
solely on additional imports, whose composition conformed to the present
composition of imports taken as a whole, the domestic value of the additional
imports would exceed their cost, c.i.f., by 16% and it would be appropriate
to shadow price foreign exchange at 1.16 times the official rate of Mau
Rs 5.h0 to US-$1.00.
21.        Over 90% of Mauritius' exports consist of sugar and sugar products.
The price received by producers for incremental output of sugar differs from
its foreign exchange value (converted at the official rate) for two reasons.
First, sugar is subject to an export tax of 6%. Second, sugar is sold in
different markets at different prices, with the quantities sold on the higher-
priced markets being limited by quotas set by international and bilateral
agreements. This means that incremental production is sold on the residual
world market at a relatJvely low price. However, the producer receives an
average price based on sales in all markets for all of his production,
including incremental production. As a result, the foreign exchange earned
if an extra ton of sugar is produced is considerably less than the price that
the prodxucer receives for it.  This "subsidy" / element in sugar pricing
greatly outweighs the tax element so that the domestic producer price of sugar
exceeds its border price.
1/ It is a subsidy paid by sugar producers to themselves returns from
intramarginal output sold on higner price markets are used to subsidize
marginal output sold on the residual world market.



ANNEX 12
Page r
22.        lIsing 1970-71 data on prices received in the different markets
and making the same assumption about the world free market price as is
made in the Mauritius 4-year Development Plan, it is calculated that the
ratio, domestic producer price/marginal export price is 609/435, or 1.bI/.
On the other hand, the conswuer price of sugar in Mauritius is less than
the marginal export price.
23.        Adœustments required as a result of a shortage or superfluity
of foreign exchange can fall on exports, or imports, or both. It seems
reasonable to suppose that in Mauritius the demand for sugar is very inelastic.
The suoply is also probably rather inelastic, although production can be
expanded at the margin at the expense of other crops and by increased use
Oc fertilizer. Hlence, the burden of adjustment is likely to fall mainly on
import,<.  Therefore, a shadow price for foreign exchange closer to the
domest.-ic/bcrder price ration for imports (1.16) than to the ratio for exports
(1.h) is appropriate. The chosen rate is 1?20. A rate higher than 116%
was deemed to be appropriate not only because it was thought that some
weight should be given to the higher domestic/border price ratio for bu.ar
exports. but also because it is likely that the more elastic imports (on
which the burden of adjustment would mainly fall) carry import duties exceed-
ing the average rate of 16%. (For example, about one-third of total imports
consist of food, includina tne staples rice and wheat flour which pay zero
or low duties and for which the demand is very inelastic.)
1/  Arcording to the Mauritius 4-Year Development "lan, "For plannir.g purposes
the marginal price of sugar to Mauritius - that at which any additional
cuantities produced can be sold on world markets - is taken to be b 32650
per long ton f.o.b. (M.au Rs 435 per metric ton).  This is 10% above the
national "floor price" of the International Sugar Agreement."
The average price received for Mauritius sugar is assumed to be Mau
Rs 647 per ton. This figure is based on 1970-71 prices and percentages
sold in different markets. as follows: Commonwealth Sugar Agreement, Mau
Rs 766 (63.1%): USA, Mau Ps 833 (2.7%); local, Mau Rs 299 (5.6%); and
world free market, Mau Rs 435 (28.6%). The average price received by
producers, after paying the 6% export tax, is Mau Ps 609. Hence, the ratio
domestic producers price/marginal export price is 609/h35, or 1.L. (Prices
quoted in this paragraph are taken from Scott, op. cit.).
It is realized that world sugar prices Fre now higher than stated above
and that the future course of prices is uncertain. For present purposes, it
is not the absolute level of prices that is relevant, but the relationship
between the free market price and the average producer price in Mauritius.
The argument in the text assumes that the rat-io of 1:1.4 will be maintained
in the future, but does not depend critically on this assumption, since the
estimate of the shadow exchange rate is based preponderantly upon the
domestic/border price ratio for imports.



ANN_X 1 2
Page 6
Valuation of MaTor inputs and Outputs
;>h.        Transportatioii of workers tc the forests and other DWC wcrksites
is a fairly substantial cost.  It was assumed that of ever, Mau Rs 101 spent
on transport, Mau Ps 20 represents the drivers' -ages and this pcrtion  -
shadew Driced at Mau Rs 10.  The remaining Mau  .s 80, representing the costs
of gasoline, oil, spares, vehicle depreciation, etc. was taken, on the basis
of input-output data'/, to be composed of taxes (Yiu Rs 18), distributLve
margins (Mau Rs 20) and foreign exchanre (Mau Rs h2).  Deducting taxes and
and shadow pricing the foreign exchange cost reduces the ?au Rs 80 to Mau
rs 70.  Henre. the ecoromic cost of transportation was taken to be 0.8 of
the money cc-st.
Fertilizer and Insecticides.  Tmport duties on these items are
negligible.  Their cost was assumsed to be coimposed of 70% foreign exchange
and 101 distribution costs.  Revalunaing the foreign exchange component at
the sh,adow exchange rate raises their            1141t t.
2K.         Other ImDorted Tnputs.  Market prices were ado-isted upwa-ds by
a rough estimate of the net effect of reraliAng the foreign exchange
compcnent of costs and subtracting taxes.
'           SueAr output is foreeone on bench terraced land.  Startir. from.,
ra".. Vau Rs&T77received bv the Dlanter for sugar, the follo-wng adiustments
-ire recuired to arrive at the  sugar's social value:
ilsa 1  s
(a) Add the milling charge (??% of the value
of the sugar produced) to give the g-oss
(unadJu3ted) value of the sugar produced ....... 1hi7
(h) Kevalve (a) at the marginal pri.e cf
suz~  (t ?  el t'.e average price: see
paras   2    e.   ?    ac-.e)   ........................   G03
(Se \ ''   t ' (b~tc'   h adow exchtrge prer im  or
'. t    .................. . . .  I......  I..........    12i4
11 z; nt tIte marginal cos+. of m4Villing,
3'j^eoi t_ be May Rs 35 (or 75% of the
-"-LW  charge of Mau 'Rs 47) ......      ............  89
:w. ..-hes  price of p' ant--r's SuZar was taken to be 90% of the
Zst:mv:we    n- S,ctt, op. eit.  The c ost composition of spare parts and
-'ine-  the rroportions 0.75 and 0.25 respectively, was taken
e: r      cs , ssai,.veof these items as a whole.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
28.        Land.  Land to be planted to forest is presently unproductive
and hence no opportunity cost has been imputed. The annual cost of bench
terraced land has been assessed as the value of pre-project output less
pre-project costs. Land to be used for fodder production is mostly covered
with scrub or aloes and hence in its present use yields very limited
quantities of rough fodder. Allowance has been made for the loss of this
fodder production by reducing the net benefits from fodder planting by 10%.
29.        Forest Products.  Wood price for pines at stump at time of clear
felling is assued to be Pau Rs 2.60 per cu ft. (US$17.00 per m3) measured
over bark. This price is based on an international price for timber c.i.f.
Mauritius of US$20.00 minus costs of harvesting and transport of US$3.00.
The price at stump for pines at thinning and eucalyptus at clear felling is
taken to be Mau Rs 1.00 and O.75 per cu ft respectively. These products were
assumed to substitute for imports and hence the above prices were increased
bv 20% to reflect the shadow foreign exchange premium.
30.        Agricultural Produee.  Additional output of agricultural produce,
viz veretahles. fruit. maize and milk, will substitute, at least in part,
for imports of these products in fresh and processed form. These imports
generally attract import duties of 101: deducting these and shadow pricing
the foreign exchange saved at a premium of 20% gives a net upward adjustment
of 10% to the domestic prices of agricultural produce. However, it is not
certain that extra production of these goods will be entirely reflected in
reduced imports.  For one thing, the goods produced, being marketed rmainly
as fresh produce, are not perfect substitutes for processed impcrted goods.
Vor another, to the extent that production is concentrated in times of
seasonal abundance, the effect will be to lower domestic prices and allow
increased consumption, rather than to displace imports. For these reasons,
and also from a desire to err on the side of conservatiEn in estimating
benefits. agricultural products were treated as non-traded goods and valued
at their domestic farm-gate prices.
Efficiency and Distributional Aspects of  dage Payments to '^brkers
31.        Fmiployment by the DWC of unemployed workers will bring about a
substantial increase in the incomes of the latter. This transfer of purchas-
ing power from the rest of society to previously unemployed workers can be
considered from the viewpoint of distributional equity and also for any
effects it might have on the efficiency of resource use. Two possible
"efficiency" implications are discussed first.
32.        It is frequently asserted: (a) that wage payments to workers
result in more consumption and less savings or investment, than would result
if the funds were used for other purposes- and (b) that this involves a
social cost on the grounds that savings are socially more valuable than
consumption.  'lhile it is not known with any confidence whether these
arguments applv to the case of Mauritius and, if so, to what extent, the
.Judgment was made that any such effect is likely to be small and her   t
was disregarded.



Page 8
33.        Part of workers' incomes will be spent on imported goods.  If
workers tend to purchase imports on which relatively low import duties are
levied, foreign exchange will be being spent on goods whose domestic/
border price ratio is less than the shadow exchange rate. The value of
these imports will thus be less than their opportunity cost and a social
loss will be incurred. Conversely, if -orkers spend their additional
incomes on goods having a high domestic value relative to their foreign
exchange costs, there will be social gain.
34.        Scott has estimated that 54% of workers' marginal expenditure
represents foreign exchange and 12.7% represents taxes. Shadow pricing
the foreign exchange component adds 11% to the cost of the workers' con-
sumption, but this adjustment does not exceed the amount of the taxes they
nay. While not all taxes are trade taxes, this calculation suggests that
workers are in effect payi ng the full opportunity cost of the foreign
exchange they spend and hence there is no social loss on this account of
a transfer of income to workers.
35.        Although the project has been designed to benefit low-income
peonle and this income redistributional aspect is regarded as a significant
benefit of the Dro.ect, no attempt has been made to introduce distributional
considerations Lato the economic analysis in a formal way, such as by
attaching distributional weights to the various cQsts and benefits. However,
the way in which labor has been shadow priced involves an implicit dis-
tilbutional judgment. By shadow pricing labor at half of the wage paid,
tne assumption is made that the other half of the wage payment does not
represent a reafl 'cot, but rather a transfer payment from the Government
(or the rest of society) tG the wcrkers employed on the project. It would
be inaopropriAte to regard this transfer as being socially costless if it
was thought that the furns would be used for socially more beneficial
purposes if retairned bv the f3overnment than when paid out to workers. The
iA-1itrent wis mrade, however. that the cost of the transfer was offset by the
4enefits accruing t.: o-)rkers.  This judgment was influenced by the consideration
that since most .1 the wo :-ers to be employed are relatively poor pecple. the
transfer, woulc .Že for a more equal di6tribution of income.
Sensit.vit-' ..-v f'% ot '-:.:tes of Return
of   -.i41 ir  tens valued as described ifn this Annex, the economic
raa4tc-i r  S     .  { r'- :re   fEollows: afforestation, 8.0%; bench terracing, 14.0%;
f -!].er pi.;rl]r.e  ';.r ses Table 1).
.t.e aff,i-estation com-oreent's rate of return is relatively in-
-!, t .ivr '.   'eS in costs arAd benefits, but the opposite is true of the
`oselgr. exchange at the official rate reduces the rate
c-   'urr c7r aft'    f->staticn frrom 8.0% to 7.2Z, but results in higher rates
.>t reX ;- - :-;    Terracing and fodder planting.  This is because forest
,: duct t_  tS ',een treated as import substitutes, but agricultural products
r:ave noG .-:  "cnorted inputs are used in all three sub-projects.
it   t   t  <gf, _Z * ,, '& 5j.                                *_*  e. ;;', v,, F,_



ANNEX 12
page 9-
39.        The rates of return at shadow prices are considerably higher
than at market prices, though the difference is less marked for fodder
planting than for the other two investments. Most of the differences is
attributable to the lower cost of labor when it is shadow priced.



ANNEX 12
Table1
Rates of Return:   Sensitivity Analysis
Bench         Fodder
Assumptions                          Afforestation     Terracing       Planting
1.  Labor and foreign exchange           8.0             14.0            13.0
shadow-priced
2.  As in (1), but with all
benefits increased by 25%            9.5             23.1            22.5
3.  As in (1), but with all
benefits reduced by 25%              6.2;             4.8             1.4
4.  As in (1), but with all
costs increased by 25%               6.9              5.5            10.3
5.  As in (1). but with shadow           7.9             11.9            11.6
wages raired by 15%
6.  As in (1), but with shadow           7.2             10.4            10.5
wages increased by 31%
7.  As in (1), but with foreign          7.2             15.0            19.1
exchange valued at official
rate
8.  All items valued at market           4.9              5.8            11.0
prices, excluding taxes prior
to 31% DWC wage increase
9. All items valued at market            4.6               5.2            9.9
prices, excluding taxes includ-
ing 31% DWC wage increase



ANNEX 13
MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BUDGETARY IMPLICATIONS
The fiscal implications of the first ten years of the Project
are set out in Annex 13, Appendix 1. The net average annual Government
contribution during the first three years of the Project life would be
Mau Rs 7.1 million. For the next seven years the average annual con-
tribution would be Mau Rs 3.9 million.
Relief Workers' Wages. Relief Workers already receive the same
wages they are paid on being transferred to the DWC, hence their employ-
ment on the Project involves the Government in no additional wage payments.
On the assumption that one-third of the DWC work force employed on the
Project will be ex-Relief WorL.rs, the saving amounts to Mau Rs 2,704,000
in the first year, and Mau Rs 3,291,000 in the second year of the Project.
Import duties and taxes on Project inputs. Ccaent, steel, bitumen,
and other inputs are subject to import duties, and transportation is heavily
taxed via impo-t and fiscal duties on gasoline, vehicles, and spare parts.
The value of duties and taxes have been estimated for each component as
follows: afforestation, 2.5 per cent; bench terracing, .2.5 percent; fodder
planting, 3.3 per cent; village improvement, 3.6 per cent.
Taxes received from workers' expenditures. A high proportion of
workers' expenditure is devoted to goods bearing import duties and other
taxes. It has been assumed that workers spend 90 per cent of the wages
they received, and that 12.7 per cent of their expenditure returns to the
Government- in the form of taxes. The wage'content of each component was
estimated to be: forestry, 82 per cent; bench'terracing, 87 per cent; fodder
planting, 83 per cent; village improvement, 37 per cent.  This includes            - -
direct wage payments by the DWC.  The wage and sa!aty component of adminis-
trative costs was taken (on the basis of the DWC's published budget to be.
76 per cent.  The labor content of technical and consultant services, and '
the training program, were assumed to be 40 per cent ard. 25 per cent, res-
.pectively.
The Government will incur a cost'of distributing food aid to the'
workers estimated at Mau Rs 395,000 including loss of revenues from the s4le.
of rice (the Government imports rice and resells it to traders) and incobid
foregone for import duttes.



MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FriAtACIAL 71 MD A'iTION TO THE GOVERNMENT
Kau ks~
Year       1           2           3          4           5           6           7           8           9         10
I. Sources of Funds
IDA Credit                             4,320        7,020       10,260
UNDP                                       65           97        -
UK/ODA                                    486          790       1,154
India                                     151          246         359
France                                    162          263          385
UNICEF                                     81          132          192
US/Food Aid                             2.825        2,825        -
Rel'    orkers Wages                    2,704        3,291        -
Cust     d Excise Duties                  490          6b2           74         60         47           45          45          51         51          51
Taxes on Workers Expenditures           1,178        11.08          192        134         85           79          79         100        100          100
Land Rents                                 31           92          147         222       222          222         222         222        222          222
Sales of Wood                             100          100        -             -          -            -           -           -          -          810
Total Source                        12,593      17,026       12,763         416        354          346         346         373        373       1,183
1I. Application of Funds
Bench Terracing                         3,665        3,665
Afforestation                           4,330        4,330
Fodder Planting                         1,235        1,235
Village Improvement                     9,955       9,955
Administration                          2,685        2,685
Technical & Consuntant Services         1,586        1,858
Training                                  975        1,393
Ilaintenance                              310          930        2,384       1,836     1,322        1,248       1,248       1,475      1,475        1,475
Physical Contingencies 1/               2,474        2,605
Price Contingencies 2/                  2,474        2.605
Food Aid Handling Fees                    395          395
Service of IDA Loan                         1            9           21          30        30           30          30          30         30           30
Total Application                   30,085      31,665        2,405       1,866      1,352        1,278       1,278       1,505      1,505        1,505
Net Income Deficit                 17,492       14,639       10,358       (1,450)    ( 988)        (932)       (932)    (1,132)   (1,132)          (322)
1/ Estimated at 10% annually during the construction period.
2/ Estimated at 10t  annually during construction period.  After that iiee increases are Asksimed to '-e
- offset by corresponding increase or revenues.



MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
RURAL DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
OF THE CABINET
Chairman - Prime Minister
Vice Chairmnan - Minister of Economic
Planning
Representatives of Participating
Ministries
Secretary - Chief - Rural Development
Unit
Policy Determination
Project Planninrlg                     RURAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT                                   Execution
and Maintenance-
Development
Ministrwes                                  Ministry of Economic                                Works
Atrictilture                                   Planning                                          Corporation
Towvr & Country                           Chief - Project Manager
Planning                                 Deputy Chiet
Health                                                                                      Central
CooperatIves                                                                                  Water
Works                                                    Monitoring                              Authority
Local Govt                              Village             and
District Councils        .             Development         Evaluation
North                                   Section            Section
Central
South                                Senior             Economist (1i
Aqencies                                Village           Agriculturist (1i
Central Water                         Develop.
Authority                            Officer
Central Electricity                   (31
Board
Village
Develop.
Officers 1291
--   -F--    ---------------------                                                              -F- -
I_______…______________Wld                                                                      k
World Bank - 7B06



DEVELOPMENT WORKS CORPORATION
ROARD or 0)IMrCIo4S
GLNE RAL vANAcrR
SLC~ RU                                                                                                                          I =
I    As ¶?'



TAI4NlA 
MAURITIUS                                                                        -                                            -                          *MAr.Wi1IJ
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                .* -                      *Q g,'A,,*
SELECTED VILLAGE COUNCILS
A         R' .4 ,1
'2F'~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ EC El'  F C. NCILS                                                                                        ~aruG.l
ie~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~,r
Q- ,CO- I   Ef'                                                                                                                   I
lc t                                                                                                    ;     e         4    i>;r  rrv Al .; ^'  /  "  I
nr:  ^  R ef ,   Crs ...   !e.s
iht'eC-. 4   LA.e/   C'-t=-, 
>  :set\j: !.fl..re'                      X                             ;s -iS  -       ;         ,       -       4                      x
I' .r   ' . '4  e'                                                    *'t!            8      '_- ~                              '~\         >
6nt HTr'us /v+                                                                                   _o8                                                       l
\'c :   i' u m .- u s         /      5   , r l   >  \    } 5 ,                                                         /        /-                 \           (.1
>    ;  >'(  V ]; Jqr3e'                                                               ,'                            -    -  _.~                                  1 \P ^  + 
E2! -csn \~~~~~~~~~~~sz e  it,   A                                            \ ~       ~     ~    ~    ~ ~~18
*~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ *      .'-  5-l*>                                                                      r                     i       



B3umI - ip Areas                                                                                                                     ,,.         -.
VC.' Roads
r E CT E. VrLA2   CL'LS 
T1  r                                                                                                     /                           */67IV ',\T A
~~~~ r ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~
"Ql ~ ~ ~         ~           ~           ~          ~          ~ ~ ~ -4y ho e
'~~Q  r~~~Ž    2
* ~~~~~ Secr~~~~~~~el
3 lIM ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      -
-    [uo~~~~         22
..25~ 
-r~~ ie~ Acy~~rQrq
k ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ncrre~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17



____________  _______    IBRD  10384
Ri'~     APRaL 1973
a~~~                              0
"                              o   o,
3'cs,)~        0
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
t       V    i~~~,'3 /                   4
t.si            }
I
Ch\,.17
\\N{U             /                    I~~~~~~~~~~~-



MAURITIUS
RURAL DEVELPMENT PROJECr
Legend to Project Area Map
District Council North
Poverty Zone       Village Council Area             Name of Village Council
1                       A                      Petit Raffray
1                       B                      Riviere du Rempart
E8perance - Trebuchet
Poudre D'Or Hailet
1                       C                      Plain  des Papayes
2                       D                      DIEpinay
Calebasses
Terre Rouge
2                       E                      Ville Bague
District Council Centre
2                       D                      Bon Accueil
2                       F                      Petit Riviere
2                       G                      Moka
3                       H                      G.R.S.E.
Bel Air/Riviere Seche
Clivia
4                       I                      Bambous
District Council South
4                       J                      Grand Riviere Noire
Tamnarin
Case Noyale
Chamarel
5                       K                      Trois Boutiques
L'Escalier
Mare Tabac
Plaine Magnien
6                       L                      Bois des Amourettes
Old rjrand Port
Bel Air
Riviere des Creoles
Mahebourg



MAURITIUS
N,           VAJR,  US
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                       8Bu
SELECTED VILLAGE COUNCILS                                                                                                                                                                          U
B..:-.w a  Aes                                                                                      w
NMz.n ROadIS
;WLECTE_IL E_UN S
W..? Baque6
~'udr'- DD' Uj Iijflei
`nm JeS Papayett
Bel 4r ,R&eSectre
Rrn cccue,l                                                                                                                                                               ePlt
F et ! R,e,e                                                           I
T ro. Rout,ques                                                                                                                                                                                  Eo
Bois des Amcrurettes
Cr'and R Ire Nioire
',!re *TboburA,A
jy~j Grarrd PLrt
Riwite'des Cr&oes                     ,                                     
FMoh'.bourg
Chjr'rorel 



-          Duo-up  reass                                                                                       urtoO'e                   'I 
…40eowcys
Mecn Roads
Seconaory Roeds                                         J                                                                                       I A \  /       C E A N
-- ----  DVs, cO  Corocl            e Bo rkic "
R:vers                                                             /<\        <(7                                                            't                :       .; e   .
iELECTED  VlLAGE COUNCELS
('  R V're  du Remrcr!
I(4  'V d'e  Ezague (s6,_  -;_ 
;   "eks.Sses
* cerar,o rrebuch'                                                                              %4
;     v dro  Or HaletS
| Pim des  opaoyes
l (M   Bei A r , Rtv e-e Seche                                 -                                         Jr
Bon 4ccuedI
j   4\ Fettl R,vrere
*  AMois} ,  
C  Bomt'ous
Tro s Bout,ques
Bois des Amourettes
Grond Rrvre Note
(O^  '.  ,ose~                                  i',s                                    o       l - .    /*     
C .   e Tao.c                         |                                                                                                               A
".!i  Grond Por-
Piane Mognien /r                                       /O
' Pivere jes  Creoes  oae                                                      -- 4'5#'.'/  
Mohebourg                                            N          exoos      $
21'                                                                                                                                  1~  t(8)                     r
Chomorel\ \t'
22)                     =                   1                              ;      
I_…%o
- s   J s        7                                                   t    s
'29                            s                                                -
I                       Mere /%-                 e                t~N  f3I23



CK-<,~~~~~-
I       81~~~~
I
O            /9
I 4~4
tL6i,"t 1I.d
'6EIO QbEI



MA
A  MOUNTAINOLUS LAND, PRECIriTcius ARtAS,                                                                              LAI,
NATIONAL PARK VOSSl$iLl71ES IHCLUOED            7t2D0  ACRES
SUITABLE FOR PLANTED FOREST POSSIBLE DEER                                                                      NORT,
|    OR CATTLE MANAGEMENT WITHIN FOREST BLOCK
HA1C.IE1  AREAS ALREADY PLANTED IN B AND C      20.224
C  SUITABLF FOR PLANTED FOREST
NO LIVESTOCE MANAGEMENT.                         fSi
D  STEEPLY SLOPING ARABLE LANO 30N-§M
RECUIRES BENCH TERRACING. NOT IN USE.            14C    -,
E  STEEPLY SLOPI NG LANO AS EN D
BUT IN USEt                                      4,0
F  YEA LAND IN LARGE BLOCKS                                                                                    0             2
ALREADY PLANTED. IALTERNATE LSE GI              tE0Ot D
TEA LAND IN LARGE BLOCKS NIOT YET 
7_        _ 'I PLANTED                                         5120    -    ,                                                      2
MIXED CROPPING WITH TEA AS A POSSIBLE
_   CASH CIROP UNDER SMALLHOLDERS
AN PFORESTRI                                     4,810
miXED CRPOPPING WITH BROKEN AREAS AND
HSCRU  ALTERNATE USE FORESTRY, GRAZING.         I hE
2ND CLASS SUGAR. ARE AS WfTHIN SUITABLE
F OA MIXED CROPPING                            19 910
2ND CLASS SUGAR. WITH A FEEW AREAS
SUITABLE FOR MIXED CROPPING                      7.720
1ST CLASS SUGAR INCLUDES RIVERS AND
SCRUB WITHIN PLANTED BLOCKS                   2773040
20DTo               L ,  tST CLASS SUGAR WITI ALTERNATE USES
PADDY RICE OR IRRIGATED wEGETABLES. AND TEA.    12.90   -_
IRRIGATED OR SWAMP VEGETABLES OR PADDY RICEt   3.90r
N  NATURE RESERVE                                    4.355
| o  NON AGRICULTURAL LAND URBAN AREAS ETC          35.9iO
P  PASGEOAFTRIGUFS                                  ElSE
fl   __                                                ios f "~~~~~~~~~~~~4.E9 ACRES
430131 ACRES
Trlole'
NOTE  DUE TO PIINTING L'IITATIONS SOME LAND USE
AREAS HAVE BEEN COMEsNfD
ACREAGE FIGURES ARE SUM OF NORTHERN ANO
SOUTHERN AREAS
Terre
Rouge
PORT  LOUIS
Beou Bassin
S i ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' t 1I,ssie



sz 30                                                                                    ;Id R-A -Jr
MAURITIUS
tA0ftTNOUS LAND. PRtClPtTOUS AREAS,                                                                                   LAND              USE
NATIONAL PARK POSSIBILITIES IKCLUDED             212W   ACRES
SUITABLE FOR PLANTRO FOREST, POSSIBLE DEER
3 OR CATTLE MANAGEMENT WITHIN FOREST SLOdK                                                                          NORTHERN   AREA
HATCHED AREAS ALREADY PLANTED LA B AND C         20,324
SUITABLE FOR PLANTED FOREST.
NO LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT.                          SAf0W
STEEPLY SLOPING ARABLE I AND 30%-OW-                                                                                              BUILT-UP  AREAS
RROUIRES BENCH TERRACING. NOT IN USE.             1,340
STEEPLY SLOPING LAND AS IN D
BUT IN _SF                                        4,240    -
TIA LAND IN LARGE RLOCKS                                                                                      0              2             A              8
ALREADY PLANTED, IALTERNATE LUSE )               16,010                                                       I
TEA LAND IN LARGE BLOCKS NOT YET
P PLANTED                                           S,t10                                                       0         2                 0        8         0
MIXED CROPPING WIYH TEA AS A POSSIBLE
CASH CROP UNDER SMALLHOLDERS
AND fORESTRY.                                     4,B80
MIXED CROPPING WITH BROKEN AREAS AND
SCRUB. ALTERNATE USE FORESTRY, GRAZING.          11.00
2ND CLASS SUGAR. AREAS WITHIN SUITABLE
FOR MIXED CROPPING                               13,910
2ND CLASS SUGAR, WITH A FEW AREAS
SUItABLE FOR MIXED CROPPING.                      7.700
tST CLASS SUGAR INCLUDES RIVERS AND
SCRUB WITHIN PLANTED BLOCKS                     223.010
IST CLASS SUGAR WITH ALTERNATE USES.
PADDY RICE OR IRRIGATED VEGETABLES. AND TEA      12.990
IRRIGATED OR SWAMAP VEGETABLFS OR PADOY RICE      1.390
NATURE RESERVE                                    4.356
I NON AGRICULTURAL LAND, URBAN AREAS ETC.           35.560
PAS GEOMETRIGUES                                  9oSt Anto
409E649 ACRES
_.,432    -
430.131 ACRES
I rIole!                                               (j> 
'PRINTING LIMITATIONS SOME LAND USE
HAVE REEN CCOMBINED_
;E FIGURES ARE SUM OF NORTHERN AND O-
RAN AREAS
Rrv,ere
Ter,e                                                       Rempart
Rouge
PORT  LOUIS
Beou Bassin
--------- -                                                                           ''1V



___      ~IBRD 10388_j;                     ;-q*                    --t
.    i               . he-< 
K ~~~~~~~~~%AIP I'l
NDt A. NE 0 C E''''D..':""' A                                                      '''V
6~
8~~~~~~~ ________________.                             _   . __;________,                   _  -.  9,    -£    -     .
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rA-    iiUA
Al A  0   St AtC
------                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORT
2000 '7
par
-Pf, ~          K
'ierdSPe          Centre
de Flacq



~2° V5                        BonmBous
Rose Htil l
Phoefw1
Curepipe
- 2030                    D~~~~~~~~el Ombre            Grenier 
rrs  .-                     )    QSouUoc
Lou's      AntrJlne SSt A.rJf
LOUIS ~ ~  ~         ~         ~         ~ ~ ~ OUHR
0 C   A
INDIA   OCEAN   
ov    !                                                        M~~~~~~~~~AURIT
TZAl^NlA                                                      -     LAND                                         I
,                                             3SOUTHERN
M OZ MB OU     Btr o                                                                                  UIltT    .
0       2 4
/N /) I A N O  C JFA NV                                                             0   2 f     KtVI
S ! [i   1>}    x  i    -   ~~~51;30-



BOmbO%i>.-:         Rose Hill
Phoefwx
0cEA
WSg-                                                                                LAN US U;{
Bel Orrbre  Gremer                                                                                   l_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bll
-   '-1                                        Soullirtc                                                               |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nqile
ChemIn
,,z,,                                                                  ~~~~~~~~MAURITIUS                                    l,
--  -  --------------'LAND    USE 
.<  |SOUTHERN AREA
7 I8    :A! t                                                          p                              BUIlT - UP AREAS
Zone       .    .                                                              E            w            ,            ,                    __31_
j                                                                                                                        L
Ale,I                                                       0            2            4 t
LMILES
0       2       a       6       a      10
'JtOM(~EIES                                               NOTE
A   O C fA N
j lt .:~~~~~~~~~~~11:. I



-___     IIKD   t0451
2D- IS-~
Maohbourg
AUUNTTAINOUS LAND PRECIPITOUS ABEAS.
A  NATIONAL PARK POSSIBILITIES INCLUDED                     21,220 ACRES
SUITABLE FOR PLANTED FOREST. POSS LE DEER
0 B  OR CATTLE MANAGEVENT WITHIN IOREST BLOCK
._ __ J        ATCHED AREAS ALREADY PLANTED IN B ANO C         20324
c  SUITABLE FOR PLANTED FOREST
NO LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT                           B6Wl
[    1ID  SElF PLY SLOPING ARABLE LAND 30% SV%
DREOUIRIES BFNCR TFRRACING NOT EN USE                9340
STEEPLY SLOPING LAND AS IN O
EBUT N USE                                          4*240
TEA LAND IN LARGE BLOCKS
ALREADY PLANTED, ALTERNATE USE GI                16010
TEA LAND tN LARGE BLOCKS NOT YfT
J IPLANTED                                             I?
MIXED CROPPING EIT. TEA AS A POSSEBLE
G  CASH CROP UNDER S9ALLNOLDERS
IkANO FORESTRY                                    4B810
HMIXED CROPPING WITH BROKEN AREAS AND
SCRU8. ALTERNATE USE FORESTRY GRAZING            11.0
2ND CLASS SUGAR. ArEAS WETWN SUITABLE
FOR MIXED CROPPING                               13910
2ND CLASS SUGAR WIT. A PEW AREAS
SUITABLE FOR MIXEE CROPPENG                       7jW
IST CtASS SUGAR INCLUDES RIVERS AND
K  SCRUB AIPTIEN PLANTFD BLOCKS                    223 0D0
L_ ST CLASS SUGAR WI l, ALTERNATE USES
PADDY RICE OR IRRIOATED VEGETABLES AND TEA       12990
L      M  tRRiGATED OR SW*AMP VEGETABLES OR PADDY RtCE       1390
r N  NATURE RESERVES                                 4.355
0  NON AGRICULTURAL LAND URBAN AREAS ETC             35550
P  PAS GEOMETRIjUES                                  9'DO
_                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4096EAN ACLR ES
NUTE DUE TO PRINTING LWTMATIECNS SUME LAND USE AREAS           _23? _
HAVF MFN  MAIMBINED                                     3D i31 ACRES
ACREAGE FIGURES ARf SUM CIF NOTERN AND
SOU TIEfRN AREAS
MOAY  1973



