CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 419 MAS
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
MAURITIUS
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 419 MAS
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
MAURITIUS
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 9, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1973, between MAURITIUS (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out in part by the Development Works
Corporation; and
(C)   The Association is willing to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and the Development Works Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "DWC" means the Development Works Corporation, a body corporate
established under Section 3 of the Development Works Act, No. 50 of 1970, as
amended by the Development Works Corporation (Amendment) Acts of 1971 and
1972;


﻿4
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the Association
and DWC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes the schedule to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Rural Development Unit" means the Unit to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(d)   "Project Manager" and "Deputy Project Manager" mean, respectively,
the Project Manager and Deputy Project Manager to be appointed in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(e)   "Rural Development Committee" means the Committee to be
established and maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, fcr ;xpenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respeut of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
(b)   Withdrawal applications with respect to Parts A, B, C and D(i) of the
Project shall be based upon DWC's quarterly statements of work executed under
the Project, certified by DWC and the Project Manager and furnished by the
Borrower to the Association as part of the supporting evidence required under
Section 5.05 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be


﻿5
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule I to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be February 29, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1983, and ending January 1, 7023, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
I'7) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2') of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and cause the
Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate economic, financial, administrative, agricultural and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall,
for the purpose of carrying out Parts A, B, C and D(i) of the Project, cause (i)
specific works under each said part of the Project to be selected, prepared and
approved pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.02, 3.03 and 3.04 of this
Agreement, and (ii) the physical execution of said works to be carried out by
DWC.


﻿6
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, within its Ministry of
Economic Planning and Development, a separate Rural Development Unit whose
principal functions shall include (i) liaison with planning units in the Ministries
of the Borrower, with public agencies and authorities, and with District and Village
Councils, in order to coordinate and provide assistance in the preparation of rural
development projects, (ii) appraisal and selection of rural development projects and
submission of recommendations in respect thereof to the Rural Development
Committee, (iii) authorization of DWC to execute rural development projects
approved by the Rural Development Committee, (iv) reporting to the Rural
Development Committee on progress of projects under execution, and (v) evaluation
of the costs and benefits of completed projects.
(b)   The Rural Development Unit shall be directed by a Project Manager
having qualifications and experience, and under terms and conditions of
employment, satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The staff of the Rural Development Unit shall include a Deputy Project
Manager, 3 Senior Village Development Officers (1 for each District Council area),
29 Village Development Officers (I for each Village Council area listed in the Annex
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement), and a special monitoring section, including an
economist and an agriculturalist experienced in farm survey, which section shall
be provided with technical assistance satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Rural
Development Committee of the Cabinet which shall have overall responsibility for
the rural development program of the Borrower and whose principal functions shall
include (i) establishing criteria and policy requirements for rural development
projects, (ii) considering and approving (or rejecting) integrated rural development
plans, recommended by the Rural Development Unit, for individual Village Council
areas, and (iii) recommending to the Borrower policy changes with respect to such
matters as wages and conditions of employment.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the membership of
the Rural Development Committee shall include representatives of the Borrower's
Ministries of Economic Planning and Development, Finance, Employment,
Agriculture, Works, Health, Town and Country Planning, Education, Local
Government and Cooperatives, under the Chairmanship of the Prime Minister, and
the Committee shall be assisted and advised by representatives of public agencies
and authorities concerned in rural development and by the Chairmen of the District
Councils.
(c)   The Project Manager shall be the Secretary of the Rural Development
Committee.
A


﻿7
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain, within each of its Ministries of
Agriculture, Works, Health and Town and Country Planning, a planning unit whose
principal functions shall include the preparation of rural development projects
which, after appraisal and recommendation by the Rural Development Unit and
approval by the Rural Development Committee, would be suitable for execution
by DWC (or other designated agency).
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that (i) the DWC Board may exercise
full responsibility for personnel administration (including the appointment,
dismissal, discipline and conditions of service of officers and workers of DWC)
and (ii) the General Manager of DWC may exercise his full executive powers and
authorities as prescribed by the Development Works Corporation Act.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its
approval, the plans and specifications for the Project, promptly upon their
preparation, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto shall
require the prior approval of the Association.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction of the works and facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that all works and facilities included
in the Project, and all works and facilities necessary to the proper and efficient
operation thereof, including all roads linking the villages listed in the Annex to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement with the Borrower's primary road network, will at
all times be properly and efficiently operated and adequately staffed and maintained
and repaired, all in accordance with sound technical, engineering, administrative
and financial practices and standards, and the Borrower shall make available, or
cause to be made available, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿8
Section 3.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that 500 acres of unoccupied government Crownlands included in the
land to be terraced under Part A of the Project will be sub-divided and leased
to landless householders drawn from the village localities which are listed in the
Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement in parcels of 2 acres of average arable
soil or the equivalent thereof in terms of agricultural productivity as determined
by the technical staff of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, but in no case
of less than 2 or more than 4 acres.
Section 3.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the areas to
be afforested under Part B of the Project shall be excluded from the scope of
operation of any concession granted or to be granted by the Borrower to any
private party.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause DWC to adopt and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, to maintain, a hiring policy which will ensure
that of all new workers employed by DWC not less than one-third will be males
of the ages 16 to 20, approximately one-third will be drawn from the ranks of
relief workers, and the remainder will be males of and over the age of 21 selected
from the Borrower's register of unemployed.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall (i) have said records and accounts for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by the Director of Audit of the Borrower or other independent auditors acceptable
to .the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of said records and accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Consuitation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of DWC and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of DWC and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿Ad
10
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   DWC   shall have failed to perform   any covenant, agreement or
obligation of DWC under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that DWC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   The Development Works Corporation Act No. 50 of 1970, as amended
by the Development Works Corporation (Amendment) Acts of 1971 and 1972,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way
as, in the judgment of the Association, to materially and adversely affect the
ability of DWC to carry out the covenants, agreements or obligations of DWC
under the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of DWC or for the
suspension of its operations.


﻿11
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 7.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the execution and delivery
of the Project Agreement on behalf of DWC have been duly authorized oi ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, DWC in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date October 12, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower tinder Sections 3.02, 3.03,
3.04, 3.05 and 3.11 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (d) of
Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date of completion
of the Project.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿12
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Government House
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:
MINFIN
Port Louis
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
MAURITIUS
By /s/ C. Jesseramsing
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Shahid S. Husain
(For) Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures to be financed in each Categoly.
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in             Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.   Bench Terracing                640,000          42% of total
expenditures
II.  Afforestation                  760,000          42% of total
expenditures
1II.  Fodder                        210,000          42% of total
expenditures
IV.  Rural Village
Improvement
(a)  Items sche-             1,670,000          42% of total
duled under                                expenditures
Part D(i) of
the Project
(b)  Self-help                100,000           42% of total
schemes                                   expenditures
(materials
only)
V.   Technical and                  150,000          100% of foreign
Consultant                                      expenditures
Services
VI.  Training                       170,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
VII. Unallocated                    300,000
TOTAL        4,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:


﻿14
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy


﻿15
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I, II,
III or IV shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, a part of Mauritius' 4-Year Plan for Social and Economic
Development (1971-1975), is a program of rural development and employment
creation designed to benefit the poorest segments of the rural population and the
execution thereof will create temporary employment for about 7,400 males over
16 years of age; together with the provision of technical assistance and consultant
services to strengthen the institutions responsible for the planning and execution
of such works, and an extensive training program.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:     Bench Terracing
Building about 1,000 acres of bench terraces;
Part B:     Afforestation
Afforesting about 4,000 acres of unproductive scrub with pine and
eucalyptus, and constructing about 20 km of light forest access and
extraction roads;
Part C:     Fodder
Clearing and planting about 1,000 acres of fodder;
Part D:     Rural Village Improvement
Improving living conditions in the poorest rural villages by providing:
(i)         basic amenities such as water taps (about 1050 units),
health centers (about 5), simple access and internal roads
(about 190 miles), markets (about 29) and community
centers (about 29) in the selected Village Council areas
which are listed in the first column of the Annex hereto,
and
(ii)        assistance to productive self-help schemes in the selected
village localities which are listed in the second column of
the Annex hereto;


﻿17
Part E:    Technical and Consultant Services
Providing staff and consultant services to strengthen and improve the:
(i)        management control, engineering, architectural and
training capabilities of DWC,
(ii)       planning  and   evaluation  capabilities of the Rural
Development Unit, and
(iii)      project preparation capability of planning units in the
Ministries of Agriculture, Works, Health and Town and
Country Planning; and
Part F:     Training
Training of:
(i)        senior staff of DWC and the Rural Development Unit,
including training fellowships for short-term courses and
study visits to countries having similar rural puLlic works
programs,
(ii)       middle management and supervisory staff of DWC in
management control and accounting systems, and
(iii)      about 3,000 young male workers of DWC in semi-skilled
trades such as carpentry, pipelaying, masonry, and repair
of vehicles, equipment and office machinery.
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 1975.
Note:      Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried out in areas demarcated
on a land use map approved by the Association.


﻿18
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Selected Village Council Areas and Village Localities
Village Council Area                                 Village Localities
District Council "NOR TH" (Pamplemouses and Riviere du Rempart)
1. Riviere du Rempart                            Hermitage
La Clemence
Pointe des Lascars
Pave
2. D'Epinay                                      Petit Rosalie
Camp Creole
Jouvence
Mon Gout
3. Petit Raffray                                 St. Francois
Camp Domaingue
Pavillion
Reunion Maurel
Moulin a Vent
Petit Paquet
Pave
Camp Malheureux
4. Ville Bague                                   Petit Julie
Pont Praslin
Ville Bague
5. Calebasses                                    Vieme Mille
Khoyratty
Calebasses
Camp Badamiers
6. Terra Rouge                                   Bois Marchand
Riche Terre
St. Joseph
Le Hochet
Terre Rouge
Mlle Laure
Bois Pignolet
7. Esperance Trebuchet                           Esperance Trebuchet
8. Poudre d'Or Hamlet                            Poudre d'Or Hamlet
9. Plaine des Papayes                            Gowsal
Plaine des Papayes
II. District Council "CENTRE" (Moka - Flaq)
10.  G.R.S.E.                                     Quinze Arpents
Beau Champ
Quartier
G.R.S.E.


﻿19
Village Council Area                               Village Localities
11.   Bel Air/Riviere Seche                         Ernest Florent
Petit Bois
La Lucie Roy
12.   Olivia                                        Louis Renaud
Camp Jackry
Olivia
Plaine Banes
La Commune
La Nourrice
13.   Bon Accueil                                   Quatre Bords
Grand Bas Fond
Lalmatie
Grande Retraite
14.  Petite Riviere                                 Richelieu
Allee Tamarin
15.   Moka                                          Moka
Mont Ory
16.   Bambous                                       Bambous
I.  District Council "SOUTH" (Grand Portand Savanne)
17.  Toris Boutiques                               Malakoff
Plein Bois
Sauveterre
Cam Esnouf
Carreau La Paille
Carol
Beau Fond
18.   Bois des Amourettes                           Providence
Bois des Amourettes
Anse Jonche
19.   Grand Riviere Noire                          Grande Riviere Noire
La Preneuse
20.   L'Escalier                                    Camp Tagore
La Sourdine
Camp La Hache
21.   Tamarin                                       Tamarin
22.   Case Noyale                                   Coteau Raffin
Case Noyale
Petit Riviere Noire
La Gaulette
23.   Mare Tabac                                    Jolis Bois
Mare Tabac


﻿20
Village Council Area                                  Village Localities
24.   Old Grand Port                                 Old Grant Port
Kenya
25.   Bel Air                                        Bel Air (Grand)
Bel Air (Petit)
26.   Plaine Magnien                                Plaine Magnien
27.   Riviere des Creoles                            Riviere des Creoles
28.   Mahebourg                                      Ville Noire
29.   Chamarel                                       Chamarel


