CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 419 MAS
Project Agreement
(Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
DEVELOPMENT WORKS CORPORATION
DATED JULY 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 419 MAS
Project Agreement
(Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
DEVELOPMENT WORKS CORPORATION
DATED JULY 9, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
DEVELOPMENT WORKS CORPORATION (hereinafter called DWC) of Mauritius.
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Mauritius (hereinafter called the Borrower), and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower a credit in various
currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but subject to DWC
agreeing to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter
set forth; and
WHEREAS DWC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of DWC
Section 2.01. DWC shall carry out the physical execution of the works under
Parts A, B, C and D(i) of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and carry out Parts E and F of the Project in so far as relating
to DWC, and conduct its operations and affairs, all with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound administrative, economic, financial and engineering


﻿4
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Development Works Corporation Act, No. 50 of 1970,
as amended.
Section 2.02. DWC shall create the position of Deputy General Manager of
DWC, whose functions shall include the management of the operations of DWC
under the Project.
Section 2.03. The Deputy General Manager, and any replacement to the
position of General Manager, of DWC shall have qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth or referred to in Shedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) DWC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by DWC to replace or repair such
goLds.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DWC shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.06. DWC shall, for the purpose specified in Section 2.02(b) of
the Development Credit Agreement, provide to the Project Manager quarterly
statements, certified by DWC, of the expenditures incurred by DWC under the
Project.
Section 2.07. DWC shall establish a separate training department, whose
organization, functions and staffing arrangements shall be satisfactory to the
Association, to provide training under Part F(iii) of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. DWC shall maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate
to record the progress of its operations under the Project (including the cost thereof)


﻿5
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of DWC.
Section 3.02. DWC shall: (a) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, by the Director of Audit or other independent auditors
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied; (b) furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, certified copies
of its audited financial statements for such year and an audit report by said auditors
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (c) furnish to the Association such other information concerning its accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. DWC shall establish and maintain internal accounting and
auditing procedures satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and DWC shall cooperate fully to ensure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and DWC shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of DWC and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
(b)   DWC shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of DWC and its subsidiaries, if any.
Section 4.02. The Association and DWC shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accoipishment of the purposes of the Credit or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 4.03. DWC shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
documents.


﻿6
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of
DWC thereunder shall terminate upon completion of the Project, provided that
if the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before
the aforementioned date, the Association shall promptly notify DWC of this event
and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿7
For DWC:
Development Works Corporation
Quay Street
Port Louis
Mauritius
Cable address:
DWC
Mauritius
Section 6.02. DWC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of DWC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by DWC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through     their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Shahid S. Husain
(For) Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
DEVELOPMENT WORKS CORPORATION
By /s/ C. Jesseramsing
Authorized Representative


﻿8
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    1. Bitumen, cement, steel rods, water-taps and pipes shall be procured on
the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, dated April
1972, as revised in October 1972.
2.    With respect to any contract for goods or services (other than services of
consultants) to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, DWC shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the particulars of advertising, analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to herein,
promptly inform DWC and the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
B.    1. For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties
and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the evaluation
of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
2.    For goods included in Categories 1, II, III and IV of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, a margin
of preference may be granted to goods manufactured in Mauritius in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Mauritius, if
the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of DWC and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Mauritius equal to at least 20%o of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿9
(2)   Group B:   bids offering goods manufactured in Mauritius,
other than bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of the groups
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


