Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24876
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-31690; TF-21759; SCL-44380)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 28.9 MILLION
AND A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF USS 40 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
October 31, 2002
Rural Development and
Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Yuan
Y1 = US$ 0.12
US$ 1 = Y 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
ERL          Emergency Recovery Lending
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
MTR          Mid-Term Review
PLG          Project Leading Group
PMO          Project Management Office
QAG          Quality Assessment Group
Vice President:  Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:   Mr. Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director:  Mr. Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mr. Xiaokai Li, EASRD



CHINA
YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                5
6. Sustainability                                                                    8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  13
9. Partner Comments                                                                 14
10. Additional Information                                                          15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               25
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR Summary                                                     26
Map IBRD 30036






Project ID: P063 123                                       Project Name: YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGENCY
REHABILITATION
Team Leader: Xiaokai Li                                    TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: October 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name. YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGENCY                        L/C/TF)Number: IDA-31690; TF-21759;
REHABILITATION                                                SCL-44380
Country/Department. CHINA                                                 Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Irrigation & drainage (2%); General education sector
(19%); Health (17%); Roads & highways (5 1%);
Water supply (I l%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/15/1998                              Effective: 06/09/1999         07/09/1999
Appraisal:  11/11/1998                                MTR: 01/15/2000            01/15/2000
Approval:  02/09/1999                               Closing: 06/30/2002          06/30/2002
BorrowerlImplementing.Agency: PRC/HUBEI; HUNAN & JIANGXI PROV. GOV.
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Jean Michel Sevenno
Country Manager:      Yukon Huang                               Yukon Huang
Sector Manager.       Mark D. Wilson                            Geoffrey Fox
Team Leader at ICR:  Xiaokai Li                                 Lang Seng Tay
ICR Primary Author:   Lang Seng Tay; Xiaokai Li
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unhkely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Pe-formance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at 1isk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background.   Widespread unprecedented rainstorms occurred during June and July 1998 in the
Yangtze's middle reach, causing severe flooding especially in the provinces of Hubei, Hunan and
Jiangxi. Rivers and lakes were rapidly filled. Torrential floods in the hilly regions, coupled with
mudslides, caused devastating damages to villages along the rivers and killed many people. Flooding of
lake and poldered areas was further aggravated by the upstream floodwater that arrived during August
and early September. Consequently, vast areas behind the Yangtze River dikes were inundated for
almost three months due to back flow of the Yangtze flood. The 1998-floodwater levels recorded in the
Yangtze exceeded the 1954 levels, the highest recorded in the 20th century. In the three provinces, the
flood affected some 79.6 million people, of whom 10.2 million were evacuated to safety, and 1,384
people lost their lives. At project identification, some 21.1 million people were still homeless and
staying in temporary shelters. Total direct economic losses estimated for Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi
were about $6.6, $4.0 and $4.6 billion respectively, not including the enormous cost of flood
evacuation, flood fighting and relief. The areas affected by the 1998 flood in Hubei, Hunan and
Jiangxi are shown in Map IBRD 30036.
Following the flood, the government immediately undertook massive evacuation of flood victims. Relief
and health services were provided and maintained during and after the flood.The various international
organizations and communities also provided relief and aid. Responding to a request for assistance
from China, the Bank Group mounted an emergency recovery operation to assist in the restoration and
reconstruction of infrastructure and social service facilities damaged by the flood so as to restore
economic production and social services, thereby provide more long-term and permanent benefits than
the temporary relief and aid provided by other international agencies.
Project Objectives. The primary objective was to assist in the restoration of social and economic
infrastructure damaged by the devastating flood in Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi provinces, thereby,
rapidly restoring economic production and social services. Priorities were given to restoration and
reconstruction of water supply and health facilities to prevent spread of diseases after the floods,
primary and secondary schools for students to continue their studies and roads to restore key access to
flooded areas so as to resume economic activities.
Evaluation of Objectives: The project objectives were very relevant and well-targeted in meeting the
urgent needs of a large number of flood victims after the flood. The Bank Group involvement in the
project has accelerated the restoration of economic and social activities through the rebuilding of water
supply systems, roads, schools, health centers and irrigation works. The project was consistent with the
Bank Group's CAS for China (Report No.1632) focusing on poverty alleviation and the reconstruction
of essential infrastructure. Without the Bank Group assistance, many of the flood-affected counties and
townships would have faced many and prolonged difficulties in the after-flood rehabilitation. Large
number of flood victims would be deprived of their social services and economic production means for
quite a while.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of the project objectives throughout the project implementation period.
3.3 Original Components:
The Yangtze Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project supported emergency reconstruction, repair and
rehabilitation programs to be carried out in Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi Provinces. The components and
-2 -



costs were as follows:
a) Roads: Restoration and reconstruction of 84 county and rural roads totaling 945 km ($49.4
million);
b) Water Supply: Restoration and reconstruction of 55 damaged county and township water supply
systems, serving a total population of about 2.5 million people ($30.2 million);
c) Schools: Restoration and reconstruction of 199 county and township secondary and primary schools
serving a total student population of about 222,540 ($18.8 million);
d) Hospitals and Clinics: Reconstruction and restoration of 143 county and township hospitals, health
centers and clinics, serving a total population of about 4.0 million people ($16.1 million);
e) Irrigation: Restoring 18 irrigation areas covering a total of about 44,200 hectares ($7.5 million);
and
f) Studies and Technical Assistance: Provision for each province to upgrade existing or develop flood
forecasting, simulation and dispatch systems, taking into account the recent flood experiences ($1.3
million).
Assessment of Design: The scope and components were carefully studied and selected by the
government and the Bank Group as the most deserving in view of the great demands for assistance
from so many sectors and sub-sectors. The components of the project were appropriate to meet the
objectives of the project, and were clear and in line with other Bank Group emergency operations and
in China and similar projects in other countries. As this was the Bank Group first flood emergency
rehabilitation project in China, the project design could only take into account lessons learned from
other emergency earthquake relief interventions in China such as: (a) sub-projects should be simple and
suitable for rapid implementation; (b) the need for local govemment support and participation in
project implementation; and (c) the benefits of using "fast track" project processing by the Bank Group.
As flooding was most severe around the Dongting Lake in Hunan and the Poyang Lake in Jiangxi, both
the provinces targeted the badly affected counties in both the lake areas. Hubei had more widespread
flooding and the project counties were scattered over the province. Due to limitation of Bank Loan and
Credit and inexperience of many counties in Bank-supported project implementation, the number of
project counties and sub-projects in each province was limited to a manageable size with priority given
to those which fit best in the selection criteria agreed with the Borrower - urgency of needs, large
number of beneficiaries served, optimum costs and capable of being implemented promptly (See
Project Agreement: Schedule 2 Section 3 (a) (i)).
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no revision of the project components except for the Studies and Technical Assistance
component which was deleted during the Mid-Term Review (MTR). The provision for the studies in
each province was too limited for any meaningful studies to be carried out for the flood forecasting,
simulation and dispatch systems. The funds were reallocated to the other components that have more
pressing demands for sub-projects. However, Jiangxi and Hunan did carry out the two flood
management studies using the funds from the UK Grant (TF021759) during the project
implementation.
-3 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no Quality at Entry assessment or QAG analysis during the course of the project
implementation. However, the entry quality was considered to be adequate and satisfactory as all
sub-projects proposed were screened and reviewed by the PMOs at each level (county, prefecture/city
and province) according to a set of criteria agreed between the Bank Group and the government. To
ensure quality at entry the Bank Group also reviewed samples of the representative sub-project
proposals in each province and agreed on the format and key contents of proposals as well as approval
procedures.
In addition, qualified design offices and institutions at the city, provincial and national levels,
depending on the value and complexity of the works and building, undertook engineering designs for
works and building. Buildings for schools and health facilities were made more resilient to flooding by
relocating to higher grounds and designed to higher construction standards. New schools were built
according to the Education Commission's plan for the locality and approved by the County Education
Commission. Roads were made more flood-tolerant and all-weather with either concrete or macadam
tarred surface.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project achieved its objectives and reached or exceeded its expected outcome. Therefore, the
project is rated satisfactory. The project's main objective of restoring essential facilities and services
and economic production was achieved in a rapid and consistent manner. Out of the total 521
sub-projects, 448 sub-projects (85%) were completed within the first two years and 160 sub-projects
(31%) within the first year of implementation. The completed sub-projects restored the social services
and economic production within the shortest possible time after the flood. The new facilities were made
more flood resilient and also designed to meet the near-term expansion needs (e.g. schools and water
supply systems). The project benefited a total of 9.1 million people and was fully appreciated and
highly valued by the local governments and the general public in the project area.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Roads: The road component has fully achieved its targets with good performance. A total of 835 km
of provincial and county roads were completed under 101 sub-projects compared to 946 km under 84
sub-projects at appraisal. The number of sub-projects and road length were reviewed and adjusted
during the mid-term review, taking into consideration the actual needs and justifications. The number
of road sub-projects was reduced by 2 in Hubei and 5 in Hunan, and increased by 24 in Jiangxi,
resulting in a net reduction of about 110 km in length. Two major bridges were also added for Hunan.
One of the two major bridges, Maojiacha Bridge in Hunan, is being delayed due to funding constraint
and unexpected high water level conditions encountered during construction. Completion is expected by
the end of 2002. Assurance has been obtained from Hunan government to complete the bridge as
designed. These completed roads cater to traffic volume of some 69,250 vehicles/day and provide
flood-proof and all weather access to flood-prone areas for evacuation and flood relief of flood victims.
The improved road access and traffic capacity also facilitate transportation of inputs and outputs of
runal and agricultural produce, thereby contributing to a more efficient rural economy.
Water Supply: A total of 42 sub-projects have been completed on time, out of the original planned 55
sub-projects (44 sub-projects under Mid-Term Review). Twelve small plants were deleted in Jiangxi
as they were completed with other sources of funding. The major water supply plant at ShiShou City of
Hubei Province was completed late due to lack of counterpart funding and technical problems
-4 -



encountered in the construction of the twin pipe intake located on the southern bank of the Yangtze
River. The completed sub-projects serve a total of 2.54 million people in 35 counties and 73 townships
with clean drinking water.
Schools: The education component is highly successful and fully appreciated by the local people. A
total of 215 secondary and primary schools were built compared to 199 proposed at appraisal, with the
biggest share of 145 in Jiangxi province. The total built-up area was 307,000 m2 compared to 293,000
m2 estimated at appraisal, serving about 213,000 students (222,540 estimated at appraisal). The
school buildings were designed and constructed according to the Education Commission plan and
standards, and made more flood resilient by locating buildings on sites less prone to flooding. Most of
the schools also included provision for near-term capacity expansion. These newly constructed schools
have largely solved the urgent problems of over-crowding at schools accommodating students from
flooded areas as well as students attending classes under temporary tents and shelters. The new
schools, complete with ancillary facilities, provide better teaching and studying environment for higher
standards of education for the local areas concerned. Many of these new schools also received student
desk-chair sets and other educational materials donated by the United Kingdom (TF-021759) and other
domestic and overseas donors.
Health; This component, comprising county and township hospitals and health clinics, is also
satisfactorily completed. A total of 142 sub-projects were completed with adjustments made at
Mid-term review in contrast to the 143 planned at appraisal. The completed health facilities serve a
total population of about 5.9 million people compared to 4.1 million estimated at appraisal. These new
facilities replacing the old ones damaged or destroyed by the flood, and those rehabilitated provide
better health services to a larger rural population. Some of these facilities completed in poor counties
also received health equipment donated by the United Kingdom (TF-021759).
Irrigation: This sole component in Hubei Province covers 21 sub-projects in 18 irrigation areas for
irrigation and drainage facility rehabilitation. It was fully completed and achieved its designed targets.
Irrigation and drainage facilities were restored or rehabilitated to command some 44,000 ha of irrigated
farmland benefiting some 442,000 farmers. Production was resumed as soon as each sub-project was
completed, thereby ensuring the economic well being of the people affected.
Overall Project: Under the project a total of 521 sub-projects were completed successfully in
comparison with the 497 planned at appraisal. The overall performance is rated as satisfactory, judging
by the reaction and appreciation of the targeted beneficiaries as well as the key performance indicators.
Annex I shows the outcome and output for each component.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As an emergency recovery operation there was no economic rate of return (ERR) determined at
appraisal and project completion. However, the project has a significant positive impact on
beneficiaries deriving from the recovery and rehabilitation works completed. The project is estimnated to
have directly benefited some 9.1 million people in the three provinces. (See Annex 3 for more details).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
This is not required for an emergency recovery operation.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Although institutional development was not included as an objective in this emergency operation, there
was considerable institutional impact spin-off. Exposure and participation of project counties with no
- 5 -



prior experience of Bank-supported projects were provided with opportunity of acquiring valuable
project implementation and management skills, and capability building. Project staff at all levels
benefited from training in various aspects of project management - planning, supervision, monitoring
and evaluation, procurement, financial management, and computer applications, etc. The training
received by the project staff amounts to a total of 38,097 man-days in the three provinces. Project staff
from the three provinces also visited the project management offices of Yunnan Earthquake
Rehabilitation Project and Hebei Earthquake Rehabilitation Project to exchange experiences in project
implementation. Due to the experiences and skills acquired, quite a number of these county project staff
have now been promoted to higher positions with greater responsibilities. Through interactions with the
Bank Group staff and consultants, county agencies were able to acquire many new technologies for
designing and operating their facilities constructed under the project, especially for the water supply
systems and roads. The Studies and Technical Assistance component to upgrade/develop a flood
forecasting, simulation and dispatching system in each province had to be omitted due to the fact that
the very limited funds allocated at appraisal were not adequate for any meaningful studies to be carried
out. Otherwise, the technical capacity in flood management of each province would have been
strengthened to a larger extent. Overall, the institutional development impact is rated as moderate.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There are essentially no major factors outside the control of government or implementing agency that
affected implementation. Macro-economic factors (inflation, foreign exchange fluctuation, etc) have
hardly affected the project as the implementation period was relatively short at three years and the
project required very little imported equipment and materials. Weather was also quite favorable for
project implementation except for some flooding encountered in 1999 and 2002 in Hunan Province.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
One of the most positive factors contributing to the project success was the firm commnitment to the
project by the governments at all levels and the end-users reflected by the efforts they made in raising
the required counterpart funds for the project. The Project Leading Groups (PLGs) and Project
Management Offices (PMOs) at all levels were rapidly established with good coordination and
functioned effectively. Active participation by local government leadership with good knowledge of the
local priority needs has greatly facilitated quick sub-projects selection and their smooth
implementation. This was important because the demand for assistance far exceeded the Bank funds
available. Project counties were required to bear the project overhead costs of supervision and
management, which posed extra financial burden on the counties already impoverished by the flood
damages. Ideally, the provincial government should have provided some financial assistance to those
counties concerned.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project was fortunate to have a Provincial PMO in each province that has prior experience with
implementation of Bank-supported projects. After the project identification, the Provincial PMOs
promptly organized PMOs at the city/prefecture and county levels for project preparation and
implementation. Many of the city/prefecture and county PMOs were new to Bank-supported projects
and the Provincial PMOs organized a series of training sessions for them in procurement,
disbursement, project supervision and financial management. Written manuals were also issued to
project staff to guide their operations. After an initial setback on procurement and disbursement, all
PMOs were able to operate effectively with further training on procurement and disbursement. Project
supervision and management at the county level was progressively improved to achieve the desired
results. Furthermore, the project was managed by the World Bank Office in Beijing instead of the
-6 -



Washington Head Office. The PMOs were thus able to keep frequent contact with the Task Manager in
Beijing Office. The close coordination and continuous dialogue had a positive impact on the project, as
they helped in solving quickly project implementation problems faced by the Provincial PMOs and also
enabled the Bank to monitor closely the project progress. Project expenditures were rapidly processed
by each Provincial PMO and submitted to World Bank Beijing Office for timely disbursement. The
timely disbursement of project funds aided fast flow of funds to the project counties that had made
advance payments for the works completed.
A Mid-term Review of the sub-projects was carried out in January 2000 in the three provinces.
Consequently some sub-projects were deleted either because they had been completed with other funds,
or because they were found to be less viable, or the timing of implementing some sub-projects could not
fit with the Bank procurement process, or project owners were unable to raise the required counterpart
funds. Those deleted sub-projects were substituted with other new sub-projects, including some major
roads and bridges, especially in Hunan and Hubei Provinces. At hindsight, these larger sub-projects,
though equally essential and pressing, should have been funded through other appropriate sources.
They were more complex and time-consuming in preparation, design, procurement and construction.
The funds provided for these larger sub-projects would have better served smaller sub-projects,
producing benefits to the local people more rapidly.
Another factor which once affected adversely project implementation was awarding contracts, in
several cases, at unduly low bid prices, which ultimately led to some contractors' poor performance
and implementation delay. Unexpected site conditions encountered and consequent changes of design
by the owner without due compensation to contractors also delayed project when contracts were
terminated.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project costs were estimated at US$132.5 million at appraisal, US$137.8 million at the
mid-term review and US$140.8 million at project completion. The increase/decrease in cost in each
province was mainly for the local cost component. The table below summarizes the total costs (unit:
US$ million) in each province at appraisal, mid-term review and completion. The total project costs by
components are shown in Annex 2.
Comp.         At Appraisal         Mid-term Review         At Completion     %Aof
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   A p p r
Local W. Bank  Total   Local W. Bank| Total   Local W. Bank  Total
Roads    17.02   32.42  49.44   21.08   31.95   53.03  22.40   32.41  54.81    111
Water    11.99   18.27  30.27   11.80   17.50  29.30   11.91   17.56  29.47    97
supply__                          _ ___          _ _  __  _ _
School    6.36   12.32  18.68    7.78   13.27   21.04   7.74   13.03   20.77   111
Health   5.30    10.78  16.08   7.38    11.86  19.24   7.76    11.83  19.59    122
Irrigation  2.45  5.02   7.47    2.81   4.87    7.68    2.90   4.87    7.76    104
TA       0.50    0.80    1.30   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00     0
Others    8.84   0.00    8.84    0.00   7.25    7.25    8.15   0.00    8.15    92
1% Fee   0.00    0.40    0.40   0.00    0.40    0.40   0.00    0.40    0.40    100
Total    52.48  80.00   132.48  58.09   79.71  137.80  60.68   79.96  140.82   106
-7-



Financing of the project at appraisal and completion is summarized below:
Source of Financing          At Appraisal                     At Completion
Amount ($million)  Percent of Total  Amount ($million)  Percent of Total
Hubei Province       18.80            14.40            20.05             14.20
Hunan Province        18.60            14.40            26.38            18.70
Jiangxi Province      15.10            11.30            14.44            10.30
Sub-total          52.50            39.70            60.87            43.20
Bank/IDA           80.00            60.40             79.97            56.80
Total            132.50           100.00           140.84
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is rated as highly likely. The rationale is as follows:
(a) The project components have been completed with sound designs and good quality of construction.
Both the design and construction standards are generally higher than the original works or facilities.
This would assure long-lasting durability of the project works and their sustainable use by the
end-users.
(b) The sub-projects built under the project are mostly to replace those facilities destroyed or damaged
by the 1998 flood and provisions for their operation and maintenance already exist including financial
and human resources. Because the works and facilities were needed urgently, the end-users have taken
them over for operation and maintenance as soon as they were completed. Their continued operation
and maintenance is assured institutionally, as the end-users are either existing local government entities
or public service agencies providing the basic services to the local people. Reasonable service fees are
levied by the end-users to meet operation and maintenance costs. For those non-profit making facilities
such as school buildings, the city/county governments concerned will include the funds needed for
operating and maintaining those facilities in their annual budgets. The Bank supervision and ICR
missions visited many of those completed sub-projects and found their 0 & M had been satisfactory.
(c) Moreover, both the central and the provincial governments have committed to very firm policy
supports and strategies for flood protection of these three provinces.  Massive investment in
strengthening the Yangtze River dikes in the three provinces is currently underway, using the state
bonds and the World Bank loan of US$210 million under the Yangtze River Dikes Strengthening
Project (Loan No. 4570-CHA). Works and facilities completed under this emergency operation will be
protected and secured for long-term operation.
(d) Although the project has been completed and the loan/credit closed, the respective Provincial
PMOs will be maintained for a certain period, at least with some core staff, to monitor the post-project
operation and performance of the completed works and facilities. The Provincial PMOs would address
any post-operation problems and/or sustainability issues accordingly.
62 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The buildings reconstructed or rehabilitated under the schools and health components were immediately
handed over to the local agencies that were previously operating them. The Bank Group supervision
and ICR missions had visited some of these completed buildings and were satisfied with their operation
-8-



and maintenance. Reasonable service fees were levied by the end-users to meet operation and
maintenance costs for most project facilities. Some of the schools and health facilities also benefited
from the materials and equipment donated by the United Kingdom through the U.K. Grant
(TF-021759) and other in-country and overseas donors. Similarly, roads, water supply and irrigation
systems were construction-managed by the existing operating local agencies and taken over for
operation and maintenance after official acceptance. Therefore, there was no need for transitional
arrangements to be made for regular operation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in identification is rated satisfactory. In respose to the Government request for
assistance  following  the  1998  catastraphic  flood,  the  Bank  Group  mounted  an
identification/preparation mission from the Beijing Office to prepare a project under emergency
recovery lending (ERL). The Bank mission visited the three provinces and explained to each province
the objectives, features and provisions of an ERL. The Bank mission also visited some of the flooded
counties to assess the needs. Proposals from each province varied considerably with respect to project
scale, components and sectors. Following the Bank policy and procedures for preparing ERL, the Bank
mission reached agreement with each province on four or five components (roads, water supply,
schools, health facilities and irrigation) with the prime objectives of restoring social services and
economic production. Relief, aid aind housing assistance to flood victims were excluded as domestic
funds were available and were more suitable for such purposes. The project counties were also limited
to the most deserving ones, with focus on those in the Dongting Lake (Hunan) and the Poyang Lake
(Jiangxi) areas. As flooding in Hubei Province was more widespread, the counties targeted were more
spreadout. The Bank Group ERL of US$80 million (50% IBRD Loan and 50% IDA Credit) was more
or less equally shared among the three provinces. To ease counterpart funding of the project counties,
Bank funded about 60% of the total cost, mostly to finance the civil works. To ensure early start of the
project the Bank mission agreed to, after assessment, provide retroactive financing of civil works up to
$16 million (20% of the loan/credit amount) for eligible expenditures incurred from the date of the
identification mission to signing of the Loan/Credit. The final ERL package was consistent with both
the Bank CAS for China and the government priorities of starting restoration of basic services and
infrastructure before the following winter.
Bank Group performance in preparation and appraisal is also rated satisfactory. The Bank Group
attached great importance and urgency to this emergency operation. A preparation mission was sent to
the field within one month after the identification mission. Guidelines and tables were provided by the
preparation mission to each province to facilitate their project preparation. Before the appraisal mission
in mid-November 1998 each province was invited to Beijing Office for discussion of their draft project
proposals. This facilitated the smooth and quick appraisal held in November. The appraisal mission
included, in addition to the Bank staff from the Beijing Office, local consultant specialists in roads,
water supply, education and health services. Detailed consultation with the stakeholders was carried
out throughout project preparation and appraisal to address the urgent needs and priorities of the
govermnent in the light of the Bank CAS objectives. To speed up project processing, project
negotiations with the government were held in Beijing Office in early December 1998. The ERL
package was prepared and delivered within the required time frame of three months.
Of particular importance was the flexible approach adopted by the Bank in fulfilling its procurement
requirements in view of the emergency nature of the project, and small and scattered numerous
-9-



sub-projects to be implemented within a 3-year period. Most of the small civil works were procured
through national shopping with the upper ceiling raised to US$1.0 million prior to September 1, 1999
(US$300,000 thereafter). Larger civil works were procured through national competitive bidding with
ceiling raised to US$5.0 million. The national shopping method with relaxed ceiling enabled large
number of qualified local contractors to take part in the bidding. These concessions have led to rapid
implementation of sub-projects as reflected in completion of 160 sub-projects (31%) by the end of
1999 and 448 sub-projects (85%) by the end of 2000. Appropriate legal covenants had also facilitated
project implementation. The appraisal mission had also considered the applicability of Bank safeguard
policies and found that these policies were not applicable to this emergency recovery operation, except
for the policy on resettlement. As the project works and facilities were mostly replacing the existing
ones damaged or destroyed by the flood, the resettlement was considered insignificant. Nevertheless,
agreement was reached with the government to include a policy framework for land acquisition and
resettlement. This policy framework was reviewed and approved by the Bank Group and was followed
in screening the sub-projects proposed by different project counties.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank Group performance in supervision is rated satisfactory. The project was supervised at
roughly 6-month intervals and seven times in all over the 3-year period. Each mission lasted 4 to 5 days
in each province and paid site visits to selected project counties in turn. Due to the large number of
counties and sub-projects, it was physically impossible for the supervision missions to visit every
county every time in the three provinces. Whenever possible, the mission invited all the county PMOs
to meet and brief the mission and discuss any existing issues, thereby was always well-informed of the
implementation status of all sub-projects. At the end of each mission, the supervision mission left an
aide memoir for the Provincial PMO to follow up on the issues identified with the mission's
recommendations. The mnission aide memoirs were translated by Provincial PMOs and quickly
disseminated to PMOs at the lower levels. All PMOs appreciated very much the supervision mission
aide memoirs and paid much attention to the issues and recommendations contained therein. These
written aide memoirs also served as important supporting documents for the Provincial PMOs to
request advice/decision from their respective government authorities.
In order to track implementation progress, each Provincial PMO was required to prepare and submit to
the Bank half-yearly physical and financial progress reports together with the performance indicators
based on the formats designed by the Task Team. These reports were reviewed prior to and during the
supervision missions. To monitor completion of each individual sub-projects, the supervision mission
designed and provided to the PMOs a special sub-project completion sheet for completion acceptance.
These simple completion reports were reviewed by City and Provincial PMOs before submitting to the
Bank Group. The Bank supervision missions and ICR mission had sample-reviewed the sub-project
completion reports and found them generally satisfactory and consistent with the physical outcomes.
The project was managed from Beijing Office. This led to very effective and close communications
between the three Provincial PMOs and the Bank task team. Many implementation problems were
quickly and effectively resolved, sometimes just through telephone and facsimile communications.
Provincial PMOs were also encouraged to meet the Task Manager in person for complicated issues.
Supervision documents such as post-mission letters, aide memoirs, and project status reports, were
adequately prepared and maintained. Project status reports gave realistic and consistent performance
ratings throughout implementation.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank Group overall performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank Group responded promptly to
- 10 -



the Borrower's request, adequately prepared and timely appraised the project under ERL, and obtained
Board approval within the set timeframe. It undertook effective supervision and maintained close
interaction with the client, which contributed to smooth and successful project implementation. The
three Provincial PMOs have commended the highly satisfactory overall performance by the Bank.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance in project preparation is rated satisfactory. As soon as the Government
had a clear picture of the extent of damage and the recovery and rehabilitation required, following
several months of extremely challenging flood-fighting, it promptly requested the Bank Group for
assistance. The Central Government through the State Development & Planning Commission and the
Ministry of Finance provided guidelines on project objectives and scope for the three provinces to
follow in drawing up project proposals for the Bank identification mission. As the project was the first
ERL for each province, initial proposals and scope of project varied considerably among the three
provinces. However, the three provincial governments were receptive to the Bank identification mission
views and suggestions, and soon reached a consensus on project scope and contents. Based on the
agreed project objectives and scope, each provincial government mobilized resources at the provincial,
city/prefecture and county levels to identify and screen sub-projects for Bank financing. That was not
an easy task as flood damages were so extensive that there was a fierce competition for funding. The
first set of draft sub-project proposals together with the cost estimates from each province were
submitted to the Bank within one month after the initial project identification. After review by the Bank
Group, each provincial government revised the draft proposals and submitted them for appraisal by the
Bank Group in November. Considering the time constraint and urgency of the project, the government
had performed very well in preparing the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government performance in implementation is rated as satisfactory. Following project appraisal,
each province established project leading groups (PLGs) at the provincial, prefecture/city and county
levels. The Provincial PLG was headed by the Vice Governor in-charge of planning and finance.
Project implementation management responsibility was assigned to the Provincial Planning
Commission in Hubei and Jiangxi, and to the Finance\Bureau in Hunan. The key role played by the
provincial governments was policy guidance to the implementing agencies, effective inter-agency
coordination, adequate and timely counterpart fund allocation, and prompt approval of staffing for the
PMOs.
The only area where Government performance could have been better was with respect to on-lending
agreements between the central government and the three provincial govemments. Protracted signing of
the on-lending agreements led to delay in Loan/Credit effectiveness by almost a month beyond the
normal norm of 90 days after project approval. However, the delay did not significantly affect the
project physical implementation but affected disbursement.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency in each of the three provinces is rated satisfactory.
The three provincial PMOs, with prior experiences of World Bank projects, played a critic'al role in
ensuring successful completion of the project within the three-year period. They provided guidance to
the PMOs at prefecture/city and county levels, organized training of project staff and monitored
implementation of the sub-projects in accordance with the legal agreements. The PMOs at all the levels
collaborated very well in project implementation. This was reflected by the completion of 160
- 1 1 -



sub-projects in 1999, 288 in 2000 well ahead of the planned schedule.
The provincial PMOs kept close and regular contact with the Task Manager in Beijing Office. Physical
and financial progress reports of good quality were prepared and submitted to the Bank regularly and
on time. Excellent arrangements were made for the Bank Group supervision missions to visit as many
project counties as possible. The management letters and supervision mission aide memoirs from the
Bank were taken seriously and disseminated to all the PMOs for necessary follow-up actions. This has
helped in keeping implementation issues and problems to the minimum.
The provincial PMOs set strict rules on the procurement of works and goods by the city/prefecture and
county PMOs. Procurement of small civil works was mainly through national shopping with at least
three price quotations. Procurement was done generally in accordance with the Bank procurement
guidelines. However, there were initially a few cases where some county PMOs used the local
procedures of bracketing for contract awarding. The Bank supervision mission spotted themj and had
the PMOs concerned abandon this practice through further further procurement training. Disbursement
for a few sub-projects was rejected for not fully complying with the Bank requirements. Initially, there
were complaints of slow disbursement from the city and county PMOs. This was mainly due to the lack
of experience with disbursement procedures by the county PMOs, incomplete supporting documents,
strict processing of disbursement applications by the provincial PMOs, and lack of staff to process
large number of disbursement applications accumulated prior to effectiveness of the loan/credit.
Disbursement was also withheld until the project counties had signed the on-lending agreements with
the provincial PMOs. This has caused cash flow constraint to some project counties and slowed down
their project implementation. The situation was progressively improved from the later part of 1999
onwards after further training of county project staff on the disbursement processes. The actual versus
planned cumulative disbursement is summarized below:
Cumulative Disbursement: Planned Vs. Actual ( unit: $ million)
Calender Year          1999             2000              2001              2002
Planned in SAR            44.40            71.20            80.00             80.00
Actual                   28.34             60.61            77.87             80.00
Actual/Planned (%)        64                85                97               100
Construction quality was generally good though it varied among different counties. There were no
major structural defects other than some building finishing works, which were remedied before the
works were accepted by the entities. Due to some recent engineering work failures in the country from
defective designs and materials used and poor supervision, the government had imposed strict quality
control and introduced a system of life-long accountability upon those responsible for the works.
Conscious of the accountability system, county PMOs have their sub-projects designed by qualified
design offices or institutions, construction materials at site checked by the County Material Quality
Checking Station, and construction supervised by qualified independent supervising engineers. This
ensured that all sub-projects were constructed to the design standard and quality.
Project management under the guidance of the provincial PMOs was generally adequate and effective.
Project staff at all levels was, in general, dedicated, competent and adequately maintained. Changes of
-12-



staff were minimum and so continuity was maintained throughout the implementation period. Progress
reporting, including the monitoring and evaluation of performance and impact, by the three provincial
PMOs was of good quality and timely. This reflects the effectiveness and competence of the provincial
PMOs in project management. Financial control and management were in accordance with the intemal
control procedures laid down by the Ministry of Finance. The State Audit Bureau audited project
accounts in each province annually. Unqualified audit reports were submitted on time to the Bank
Group with minor observations on financial administration. Legal covenants in the Development Credit
Agreement were fully complied with or complied without any significant deviations.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above the Borrower overall performance is rated as satisfactory. Both the governments
and PMOs at all levels were fully committed to achieving the project objectives during project
implementation. Despite some initial setback at the project startup, the project has been successfully
completed within the three-year period.
8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons leamed from the project preparation and implementation of the project include:
Replicability of Experiences: The project was successfully completed, having achieved the designed
objectives, physical targets and benefits. The project scope, components and sub-projects chosen were
appropriate and benefited a large number of flood victims in the post-flood recovery and rehabilitation.
Valuable experiences and lessons were learned in the project preparation and supervision. Processing
and implementing the project under an emergency recovery lending following a "fast track" within three
to four years, proved to be realistic and achievable. The practice of this project could be replicated for
similar projects in future, if needed, in China and elsewhere.
Appropriate Sizing of Sub-projects: In selecting sub-projects from hundreds proposed, more attention
should be paid to the size of each sub-project. A few of the sub-projects included in the mid-term
review (roads, bridges, water supply systems) were comparatively large and their implementation was
less satisfactory due to work complexity and longer time required in project preparation, design,
procurement and construction. These larger sub-projects also faced counterpart-finding constraints
when there was a cost overrun. On the other hand, too small a sub-project required similar amounts of
time and effort in preparation, thereby increased the workload of PMOs in their supervision and
management. A large sub-project should not exceed US$2.0 million in cost and be capable of being
completed within 12 to 18 months. This would ensure that benefit targets be achieved within the
shortest possible period. In particular, education sub-projects should be reviewed in the light of the
development plans of the local government authorities to avoid excessive capacity expansion, leading to
under-utilization and waste.
Procurement Requirements Relaxed: As an emergency recovery operation, normal Bank procurement
requirements have been somewhat relaxed to speed up the procurement process. As most of
sub-projects consisted of small and simple civil works, national shopping method was widely used with
raised upper ceiling (US$ 1.0 million prior to September 1, 1999 and US$300,000 thereafter). For the
few larger sub-projects, national competitive bidding was used for contracts of values up to US$5.0
million, using the Chinese Model Bidding Document for Procurement of Works developed by the
Ministry of Finance for Bank-financed projects in China. The flexible approach adopted in handling
procurement, together with a sizeable amount of retroactively financed works started after the Bank
identification mission, had facilitated the project to be carried out effectively and quickly. This is an
- 13-



important lesson learned and could be extended to other emergency projects.
Adequate and Timely Provision of Counterpart Fund Critical: Adequate and timely allocation of
counterpart funds is critical for smooth project implementation. Promise and assurance of counterpart
fund availability are not good enough. Required funds should be included in the annual budgets of the
responsible agencies and tirnely allocated in adequate amount. Counterpart funding constraints had led
to project counties dropping some sub-projects selected for implementation. A point in case was the
Poyang County in Jiangxi Province where several sub-projects had to be cancelled and the
corresponding Bank funds reallocated to some other sub-projects. This was because under the principle
of "the beneficiary pays" the provincial governments were reluctant to assist those counties which were
unable to raise the required counterpart funds and to service the Bank loan/credit.
More IDA Credit and Optimum Use: The project lending was a blend of 50% IBRD Loan and 50%
IDA Credit. Many of the project counties were impoverished by the floods and faced serious financial
constraints in undertaking the recovery and rehabilitation. A larger percentage of the concessionary
IDA Credit would be of great help to those poor counties. Moreover, IDA Credit should preferably be
used for non-revenue generating sub-projects like flood protection works, schools and health services.
IBRD loan should be used for roads and water supply works for which fees can be collected for loan
servicing.
Active Participation and Effective Coordination: The project contained many sub-projects under
different sectors and spread over a great number of counties in each province. Without the active
participation of the local governments and the end-users and effective inter-agency coordination, the
project would not have been implemented as smoothly. Guidance and leadership provided by the
experienced Provincial PMOs had also greatly facilitated the project implementation despite that many
project counties and cities have no prior experience with World Bank projects. Active participation by
local governrments and end-users, and effective project management organization are therefore one of
the key lessons learned from this project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1. Comments
The following comments on the Bank draft ICR were received via a letter dated September 17, 2002
signed by Mr. Liu Zhaolin, PPMO Director, Hubei Province on behalf of the three provincial PMOs.
We acknowledge the receipt of the draft ICR prepared by the World Bank task team dated June
20,2002. We have carefully reviewed the draft in relation to the project appraisal documents and
have the following comments:
* The Bank draft ICR fully reflects the true history of the project;
*   It provides an objective andfair evaluation of the achievements and benefits of the project, as
well as the experiences and lessons learntfrom the project;
* With the joint efforts of the government and implementing agencies and the World Bank task
team, all the project activities under different components have been completed successfully, with
profound impact on the local social and economic development, and played an important role in
- 14-



reducing the vulnerability to floods of the local people in the beneficiary areas;
*   We would like to express our appreciation of helpfrom the World Bank and the task team in the
project preparation and implementation, and would definitely incorporate the experiences and
lessons learnt into future project operations.
I hereby confirm that the above are the collective comments of all three project provinces.
Yours sincerely,
Liu Zhaolin
PPMO Director, Hubei Province
On behalfof
Hunan Provincial PMO
Jiangxi Provincial PMO
Hubei Provincial PMO
2. Suggestions:
It is recommended that World Bank provide different types of funding for emergency projects in
accordance with different projects. For projects that have repayment capabilities such as roads and
water supply plants, IBRD loans are more appropriate. These revenue-earning sub-projects can pay for
operation and maintenance and service loans through service fee collection. For sub-projects that do not
generate revenues, such as middle or primary schools, which come under the national compulsory
education system, the schools cannot collect high fees from students and are unable to service any loan.
In fact, the loan would be repaid by government finance. Therefore, it is recommended that the World
Bank provide soft loan (credit) for education sub-projects or that the repayment be handled at the
central level. For county and township hospitals and health clinics, fees can be collected from patients,
but rural economy lags behind the urban areas at present. Farmers' income is still low and cannot
afford paying high costs of healthcare. Therefore, funding for rural healthcare sub-projects should be
an appropriate blend of hard loan and credit. Using this kind of funding arrangements for different
nature of sub-projects, it can not only help the Borrower to build infrastructures, but also guarantee
repayment of the World Bank loan and credit.
It is further recommended that World Bank provide grants for project preparation. Following the flood
disaster, the governments have to bear huge financial burden for flood relief and recovery of the flood
victims. If the World Bank could provide some grant for project preparation, it would help reduce the
government financial burden and accelerate project preparation work.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
-. Indicator/Matrix     .1   .        Pr oe t d'lnhl;pAsSRA&A{ _____'____________l_____ n___
Roads:
1 No & total length of roads          84 roads/945 6 km                     101 roads/836.2 km
2. Traffic volume catered             88,000 vehicles/day                   69,250 vehicles/day
Water Supply:
1. No of water supply plants          55                                    42
2. Daily water supply production      1,130,000 tons/day                    1,031,000 tons/day
3. No. of counties served             29                                    35
4. No of townships served             62                                    73
5. No. of households served           686,000                               662,000
6 Total population served             2.47 million people                   2.54 million people
Schools:
1. No of pfimary schools              118                                   119
2 No of secondary schools             81                                    96
3. Total student population served    222,540                               213,000
Health
1. No. of sub-projects completed      143                                   142
2. Total populaton served             4,079,000 people                      5,899,000 people
lmgation.
1. No. of sub-projects completed      18                                    21
2. Total irrigation area served       44,200 ha                             44,200 ha
3. Total drainage area served         38,000 ha                             38,000 ha
4. Total no. of farmers served        442,000 farmers                       442,000 farmers
Note: Column 2 refers to indicators at appraisal, Column 3 includes changes made under mid-term review m January 2000
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matr,x-i Prodectd in last P '                   ; ';     ' ,A l; .  ctualI U-t1EWMinttea 
Road:
1 Total investment                    426.7 million yuan                    503.6 million yuan
2 Total length reconstructed          945 km                                834.7 km
3. Bridges constructed                55                                    27
4. Road culverts constructed          915                                   1,149
Water Supply.
1. Total investment                   262.3 million yuan                    253.4 million yuan
2. No. of water supply plants         55                                    42
3 Total daily water production        1,130,000 tons/day                    1,031,000 tons/day
Schools.
1. Total Investment                   160 9 million yuan                    178.8 million yuan
2 No. of secondary schools            81                                    96
3. Total built-up floor area          149,000 sq. m.                        176,000 sq. m.
4. No of primary schools              118                                   119
5 Total built-up floorarea            143,500 sq m                          128,800 sq. m.
Health.
1. Total Investment                   141.1 million yuan                    167.6 million yuan
2. Hospitals reconstructed            19                                    33
3. No. of health centers constr.      29                                    26
4. No. of health clinics constr.      96                                    83
5 Total built-up floor area           220,400 sq. m.                        212,300 sq. m.
Irrigation
1 Total investment                    403.9 million yuan                    501.8 million yuan
2 Total Irrigated areas reconstructed  44,200 ha                            44,200 ha
- 16 -



End of project
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
A. At Appraisal (Estimates: US$ million)
Project Components             Procurement Methods\a
N.C.B.        Other\b        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works/Buildings             32.5           81.5           0           114.0
(20.5)        (51.6)          (0)         (72.1)
2. Goods                        4.2           3.8            0            8.0
(4.2)         (2.5)          (0)          (6.7)
3. Studies&TA                    0            0.8           0.5          1.30
(0)          (0.8)          (0)          (0.8)
4. Others                        0             0            8.8           8.8
(0)           (0)           (0)           (0)
5. 1% Front-end Fee              0            0.40           0            0.4
(0)           (0)           (0)          (0.4)
Total                        36.7          86.5           9.3         132.5
(24.7)        (55.3)          (0)         (80.0)
la: FiguresinparenthesisaretheamountstobefinancedbytheBankLoan. Allcostsincludecontingencies.
Ib: Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, training, technical
assistance services
B. At Completion (Actual/Latest Estimates: US$ million)
Project Components             Procurement Methods\a
N.C.B.        Other\b       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works/Buildings             39.91         93.07           0           132.98
(25.69)       (48.74)         (0)         (74.43)
2. Goods                        1.49          5.96           0            7.45
((0.97)        (4.20)         (0)         (5.17)
3. Studies& TA                   0             0             0             0
(0)           (0)           (0)           (0)
4. Others                        0             0             0             0
(0)           (0)           (0)           (0)
5. 1% Upfront Fee                0             0             0            0.40
(0)           (0)           (0)          (0.40)
Total                        41.4          99.42           0          140.83
(26.66)       (53.34)         (0)         (80.00)
la: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Ib: Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, training, technical
assistance services
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
2A. Project Costs by Components
Project Cost by  Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest           Percentage of
Component            $ million           Estimate $ million       Appraisal (%)
Roads
Hubei                   8.7                    7.33                    84
Hunan                  20.7                   25.65                    124
Jiangxi                20.0                   21.77                    108
Sub-total              49.4                   54.75                    111
WaterSupply
Hubei                  15.2                   16.03                    105
Hunan                   9.3                    8.65                    93
Jiangxi                 5.7                    4.71                     82
Sub-total              30.2                   29.39                    97
Schools
Hubei                   4.2                    5.18                    122
Hunan                   6.6                    6.44                    100
Jiangxi                 8.0                    9.15                    114
Sub-total               18.8                  20.77                     111
Health
Hubei                   7.2                   10.60                    145
Hunan                   4.0                    3.80                     94
Jiangxi                 4.9                    5.19                    107
Sub-total              16.1                   19.59                     122
Irrigation
Hubei                   7.5                    7.76                     103
Hunan                   0.0                    0.00                     0
Jiangxi                 0.0                    0.00                     0
Sub-total               7.5                    7.76                     103
Studies/TA
Hubei                   0.4                    0.00                     0
Hunan                   0.5                    0.00                     0
Jiangxi                 0.4                    0.00                     0
Sub-total               1.3                    0.00                     0
Other\a
Hubei                   2.5                    0.00                     0.
Hunan                  4.1                    8.15                     200
Jiangxi                2.2                    0.00                      0
Sub-total               8.8                    8.15                     92
1% Loan Fee            0.4                     0.4                     100
-18 -



Total Project           132.5                  140.82                     106
Cost
Total Financing         132.5                   140.82                    106
Required
la: include land acquisition and compensation, engineering, design andproject management costs.
2B. Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component       Appraisal Estiamte      Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of Ap raisal
Bank     Govt.    CoF    Bank     Govt.   CoF     Bank    Govt.    CoF
Road            32.42   17.02    0.00   32.41    22.34    0.00     100     131     0.00
W. Supply       18.27   12.00    0.00    17.48   11.92    0.00      96      99     0.00
Education       12.32    6.35    0.00    13.03    7.74    0.00     106     122     0.00
Health          10.78    5.30    0.00    11.83    7.76    0.00     110     146     0.00
Irrigation       5.02    2.45    0.00    4.87     2.90    0.00      97     118     0.00
Studies          0.80    0.50    0.00     0 00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Others           0.00    8.84    0.00     0.00    8.15    0.00    0.00      92     0.00
1% Fee           0.40    0.00    0.00    0.40     0.00    0.00     100     0.00    0.00
Total           80.00   52.34    0.00    80.00   60.81    0.00     100     116     0.00
Note: Govt. above means provincial governments of Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi
- 19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
For this emergency recovery operation, no economic analysis was conducted at appraisal and project
completion. However, the benefits are described below in terms of performance indicators as far as
possible. The project was completed at a cost very close to the cost estimates at appraisal essentially
with no cost overrun at the project level.
The completed project as a whole had benefited directly some nine million of beneficiaries in the three
project provinces. The projected economic production means and social amenities had been rapidly
restored through reconstruction and new construction of some 521 sub-projects of roads, water supply,
schools, health and irrigation. The major benefits and impact are summarized below:
Sector/Item                Benefits                     Results/Impacts
Roads:
Total no. of roads restored and  101 sub-projects  The 101 roads (province, city and county
constructed                                       class), including two major bridges, were
Total length restored and       835 km including 27  estored and/or constructed with higher
constructed.                    bridges.          standards. Roads were made more flood
Total no. of bridges            27 (two are major)  resilient through raising the height above
Vehicle capacity                69,260 vehicles/day  flood level, concrete or bitumen surfacing
with adequate thickness of base course.
Some of the roads are also linked to local
road networks. The completed roads had
restored the vital road access for economic
roduction and ensured access for future
I________________I_______flood evacuation and relief.
Water Supply:
Total no. of plants restored and  42 plants       A total of 42 county and township water
constructed                                       supply plants had been completed,
Total production capacity       1,031,000 tons/day  including a major plant at the Shishou City
Total no. of people served      2.54 million people  damaged by the 1998 flood. These plants
in 35 counties, 73  served a total population of about 2.54
townships and      million people with clean water - a basic
662,000 households. need for good public health. The equipment
for these plants and their distribution
ipelines were either replaced or upgraded
to ensure long-term operation.
Schools:
Total no. of schools restored and  215 primary and  The 215 primary and secondary schools
constructed                     secondary schools  completed serve a total student population
Total student population served  213,000 students in  of about 213,000. Layout and designs of
the three provinces.  schools were in line with the local
Education Commission requirements. The
school capacity also take into account the
near-term student population increase.
School buildings are made more flood
esilient by moving on higher grounds and
being constructed with reinforced concrete
frames instead of brick and mortar used in
the past. These schools now have adequate
educational facilities for a large number of
students affected by the flood, especially in
-20-



the rural areas. The new schools provide
better teaching and study environments for
teachers and students needed for higher
standards of education.
Health:
Total no. health facilities restored  142 county hospitals The 142 county hospitals and township health
and constructed                  and township health  centers, built under the project, benefited a total of
centers            estimated 5.9 million people in the project area. The
Total built-up area              212,000 sq.m.      new buildings were constructed with higher
Total population served          5.8 million        standards to meet the increasing demand for better
estimated.         health services in the rural areas. The new facilities
include out-patient clinics, additional in-patient beds,
lanalytical laboratories and simple operation rooms.
Irrigation:
Total no. of irrigation works    21 subprojects in 18  The 21 irrigation works, covering some
restored and rehabilitated       irrigation areas   44,000 ha in 18 irrigation areas, benefited
Total area restored and rehabilitated  44,000 ha    directly 442,000 farmers with their
Total no. of farmers benefited   442,000 farmers    damaged irrigation and drainage facilities
restored or rehabilitated. The project help
them restore their agricultural production
and ensured their economic recovery and
well-being.
Total no. of beneficiaries       9,094,000\a
la: Beneficiariesfrom road sector not determined and included.
One particular benefit worth special mentioning is the benefit derived from the two major bridges,
Dahukou and Maojiacha Bridges, constructed in the Anxian and Li Counties of Hunan Province.
These two bridges were included by Hunan Province during the Mid-Term Review in early 2000 after
considering their importance and priority. They replaced the ferry services which could not be operated
during flood, and linked up with the existing county roads. During the 1998 flood, some 111,380
people were trapped in the Guanyan Polder Area in Li County and the An Feng Polder Area in Anxian
County for days without help and aid, and could not be evacuated for lack of road access. Therefore,
the two bridges were regarded as "life-saving bridges" by the local communities. In addition, the two
bridges together with the county roads would further promote development of local economy through
better road access.
The Bank-financed sub-projects provided much financial relief to the poor counties and townships.
They had already suffered huge economic losses due to the flood and it would be difficult for them to
finance with their own resources the post-flood recovery and rehabilitation without external assistance.
At best, it would take them years to rebuild the facilities. The Bank assistance was considered timely
and highly appreciated by the local governments, the beneficiary communities and the general public.
-21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification:            2   TM/SIE, AE
10/98
Preparation:               3   TM/SIE; WRS, E
11/98
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal:                 3   TM/SIE, CA, AE
11/14/98
Negotiation:               6   TM/SIE, L, ES, PS, DS, TA
12/18/98
Supervision
04/22/99                    1  TM/SIE                            S            S
09/25/99                    S  TM/SIE, ES, RS, HS, WSS           S            S
05/28/00                    2   TM/SIE, SWRS                     S            S
10/25/00                    6  TM/SWRS, DS, WSS, ES, RS,         S            S
HS
04/21/01                    6   TM/SWRS, WSS, HS, RS, ES,        S            S
FFS
11/22/01                    6  TM/SWRS, E, IE, WSS, RS, FFS      S            S
04/30/02                    S   TM/SWRS, WRS, ES, HS, FFS        S            S
ICR
09/15/02                        TM/SWRS; SIE
AE = Agroeconomist                     RS = Road Specialist
CA = Cost Analyst                      SIE = Senior Irrigation Engineer
DS = Disbursement Specialist           SWRS = Senior Water Resources Specialist
E = Economist                          TA = Task Assistant
ES = Education Specialist              TM = Task Manager
FFS = Flood Forecasting Specialist     WRS = Water Resources Specialist
HS = Health Specialist                 WWS = Water Supply Specialist
PS = Procurement Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                 ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ '000)
Identification/Preparation             10.4                       40.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                  16.4                       21.8
Supervision                            56.3                      190.8
ICR                                    10.1                       14.9
Total                                  93.2                      267.6
-22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
Ol Sector Policies                    O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
I Physical                            * H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
Oi Financial                          O H OSUOM O N         * NA
Li Institutional Development          O H O SU * M O N      0 NA
O Environmental                       O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
O Gender                        O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM O N       * NA
O Private sector development           0 H O SU O M 0 N     * NA
Li Public sector management           0 H O SU O M    0 N   * NA
L Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM     O N   * NA
-23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
 Lending                                           O HSOS OLU OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
0 Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
Z Government implementation performance             O HS O S    O U    0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       OU    O HU
F Overall                                           OHS OS       OU    O HU
-24-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Memorandum of the President: Yangtze Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project, Report No.
P-7285-CHA, January 19, 1999
Technical Annex: Yangtze Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project, Report No. T-7285-CHA,
January 19, 1999
Bank Mission Aide Memoires: October 1998 - September 2002
Implementation Progress Reports by Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi Provinces: 1999-2002
The Borrower's Implementation Completion Report, September, 2002
-25 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR Summary
I. Background
Widespread unprecedented rainstorms occurred during June and July 1998 in the main river systems of
the Provinces of Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi. At the same time, the biggest flood since 1954 occurred in
the Yangtze River, causing catastrophic flood in the three provinces.
In Hunan, 14 prefectures/cities, 108 counties and 1438 townships/villages suffered from flood disaster
of varying degrees. The flood affected some 28.8 million people and destroyed some 688,600 houses.
The total direct economic losses for Hunan were estimated about 32.9 billion Yuan.
In Hubei, the flood affected some 36.52million people and 582 people and 0.27 million heads of
livestock were killed. Crop areas affected were estimated at 38.1 million mu, with 27.96 million mu
severely damaged and 8.83 million mu totally lost. Some 1.22 million houses collapsed and the flood
damaged 2.93 million houses. The total grain loss was 4.86 billion kg, and cotton production was
reduced by 3 million tons. The total direct economic losses of Hubei were estimated at 50 billion Yuan.
In Jiangxi, 79 counties,1329 villages and towns and 22.07 million people were affected with 193
people lost their lives due to the flood. Some 1.36 million houses were damaged and 1.23 million
houses collapsed. Ten thousand km road and more than 5000 bridges were damaged. Agricultural
crops affected were 19.16 million mu with 13 million mu totally lost. The total direct economic losses
for Jiangxi were estimated at 38.46 billion Yuan.
After the flood, the Chinese Government requested the World Bank for assistance in rehabilitation and
recovery of the flood affected areas.
II. Project Objectives and Description
The primary objective of the project was to provide fund and technical assistance in the restoration of
social and economic infrastructure (water supply, road, school, health facilities, lirrigation) damaged
by the devastating flood in Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi provinces so as to restore the economic
production and social services.
The project contents for each province are as follows:
(i) Restoration and reconstruction of 30 water supply plants; 49 county and village road toiling
350.91 km; 133 county secondary and primary schools; and 93 all levels hospitals, health centres and
clinics in Jiangxi province;
(ii) Restoration and reconstruction of 7 water supply plants; 10 county and village roads totalling
129.71 kin; 38 county secondary and primary schools; and 33 hospitals, health centres and clinics; 18
irrigation areas in Hubei province; and
(iii)     Restoration and reconstruction of 18 water supply plants; 25 county and village road
totalling 465 kan; 26 county secondary and primary schools; and 18 hospitals, health centres and clinics
in Hunan Province
m.Assessment of Project Preparation and Project Implementation
-26 -



The World Bank had paid great attention in the efficient preparation of the project. From the
identification, preparation to the appraisal, negotiation and loan signing, the World Bank had devoted
much effort and manpower, so the quality of the preparation was high.
The three provinces attached importance to the project, and established the three-level project
management groups with the province, city, county government leaders assuming leadership and
included the Planning Commission, Finance Bureau and other relevant leaders. The groups deternined
the important matter of the project, coordinated the works between the implementing agencies. The
groups set up the PMOs to be in charge of the day-to-day management of the project.
Each provincial PMOs, with the assistance of the Provincial Planning Commission, Provincial Finance
Bureau,Provincial Education Commission, Provincial Health Bureau, Provincial Construction Bureau
and the experts concemed, reviewed and screened the projects proposed by the project district,
instituted the managing means and the standards for the project implementation. Thus, the quality of
the preparation for the majority of the sub-projects was satisfactory.
Evaluation of the Project Selection,Design and Implementation: The implementation of the
sub-projects restored rapidly the conditions of production and the livelihood of the people in the
disaster areas, making the flood victims confronted with the desperate situation more confident and in
seeing the hope to overcome the disaster. This has generated keen participation of the affected people in
project designs and construction of the rehabilitation and recovery work
Few sub- projects were rebuilt and remedied according to the original design. Majority of the
sub-project were designed according to the new standards. The design units involved in the project have
appropriate design certificates issued by the State Construction Ministry. All the designs executed
complied with the relevant design criterion and the trade regulations. All completed sub-projects have
not shown any design deficiency or defects. The designs of sub-projects also took into consideration the
short-term future needs. Thus, the capacity for of the road, water supply, school,hospitals and clinics
sub-projects need not be enlarged within the next ten years. The design had fully considered the risk of
future floods and how to avoid future damages.
IV. Achievement of Project Objective
The Yangtze Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project had achieved the desired objective after three
years of implementation, The infrastructure in the project areas destroyed by the 1998 flood have been
restored and reconstructed, the production and lifelihood of the victims had been restored, the damaged
irrigation and drainage systems had been strengthened, the criterion of the flood control and drainage
had been resumed and improved, the output of the agricultuiral production and the income of the farmer
restored. The implementation of the project contributed much to the reconstruction work after the
disaster, and bring new hope and opportunity to promote economy of the whole project district. The
project not only relieves the victims from poverty, rebuild their homeland, but also lend support to the
whole state economy construction and the social development.
The Yangtze Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project was implemented very smoothly, achieving
remarkable social benefits and impacts. These sub-projects performed well upon completion, restoring
many infrastructures such as road, water supply, school and hospital, enabling the flood victims to
rebuild their homeland and resume their normal production and livelihood.
The sub-projects successfully completed are as follows:
- 27 -



(a) Water Supply: Restoration and reconstruction of 42 damaged water supply systems with total
daily water supply capacity of 1,031,000 tons/day, serving a total population of about 2.54 million
people, and ensuring adequate daily water supply for domestic and industrial use;
(b) Roads: Restoration and reconstruction of 101 county and township roads totalling about 835
km with concrete or bitumen road surfaces, catering to traffic volume of about 69,250 vehicles per day,
improving the status of the traffic and the roads, playing an important function in the restoration and
reconstruction work of the affected areas.
(c) Schools: The restoration and reconstruction of 215 county and township secondary and
primary schools in the education component had all been completed, including 96 secondary schools
with total built-up area of about 180,300 square meters and 1 l9 primary schools with about 128,500
square meters of built-up area, resolved the schooling problem for about 213,000 school-going
children;
(d) Health: The restoration and reconstruction of 142 county and township hospitals and clinics
were completed under the health component with a total built-up area of 212,300 square meters,
serving a total population of about 5.9 million people with improved medical and health services, and
ensuring that the flood victims are in good health; and
(e) Irrigation: Restoring 18 irrigation areas with 21 sub-projects. covering a total of about 44,000
hectares and benefiting about 0.44 million farmers.
As an urgent project, the project mainly considered the social beneficial result. According to the survey
and statistics collected after the completion of the project, it has restored the traffic in the affected
areas, provided clean water to cities, towns and villages, restored and improved the condition of the
epidemic prevention and disease treatment of the flood affected people. So the project has achieved the
objective of stabilizing the society and the people through the social benefits provided. The social
benefits and result can be seen with respect to: (i) it can reduce or minimize the flood disaster similar to
that of 1998. (ii) The implementation of the project can support the construction of flood control work.
(iii) The completed project had begun to play beneficial role in the daily production of the affected
population and in developing the local economy.
V. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency: There were no major factors
outside the control of government or implementing agency that affected project implementation, except
for an insignificant factor existed. During the implementation, the exchange rate fluctuation of the
foreign currency and RMB is outside the control of government or implementing agency, but the
exchange rate did not change much during the implementation, so the effect is very small.
Factors generally subject to government control: The implementation of the project is under the
State macro-policy guidance that focuses on the central task of economic construction. The
construction contents are all the basic assets that been encouraged and supported by the State. The
objectives of the construction are fully in accordance with the current sector policy. So the project had
the recognition by government leaders at all levels and the support of the relevant departments. First, in
raising fund for the project, governments and departments all levels incorporated the project into their
own plan for the restoration and reconstruction after the disaster. The counterpart funds needed are
planned as a whole, thereby resolving the counterpart funds needed for each sub-project. Secondly,
when selecting and confirming sub-projects, stick to the guidelines that make overall plans and take all
factors into consideration,lay stress on the priority,centralize properly,integrate into one part,plan in
unison,overcome the present difficulty, put the investment emphasis at the township level and the small
sub-projects that could be restored and reconstructed rapidly, on the small sub-projects that restored
- 28 -



and reconstructed the basic infrastructure such as drinking water,roads,schools and health facilities that
were needed urgently by the affected areas. Thirdly, of PMO staff at all levels is conscientious, clean
and devoted. The World Bank funds and the domestic counterpart funds are managed strictly according
to the World Bank management system and the national financial management system. respectively.
Fourthly, the implementation had the support,professional guidance and assistance by the government
at all levels and the department concerned. In a word, the policy guarantee,the recognition by the
government,the support by the concerned departments,the hard work of the staff and the strict financial
management, had all ensured the project implemented and completed smoothly.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: One important factor that ensured the
Yangtze Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project could be completed with high quality and smoothly, is
strengthening of the construction management, use of selected scientific managing modei. The three
provinces had all carried out the management measures such as the project legal person system, project
supervision system, and tender and procurement management system.
In addition, the PMOs established at province, city and county levels are another important factor that
ensures smooth project implementation. The PMO staff checked the progress of the project, and during
the peak period of the implementation, the city, county PMOs applied for fund disbursement to the
provincial PMOs monthly. The provincial PMOs processed and disbursed the fund promptly. The
county implementing agencies had considered fund disbursement under this project has been the
quickest compared to other foreign-funded projects.
VI. Project Sustainability
Basis of Sustainable Evaluation: Each sub-project of Yangtze Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project
has already been completed and achieved the anticipated target. The sustainability of each sub-project
is assured.
The government pays close attention to and supports the Project continuously: Chinese Government
has always paid attention to infrastructure and social services, and supported through policy, finance,
etc. So the Project has good environment for sustainable development For flood prevention of the
Yangtze River, the central and each provincial government issues a series of policies and measures, and
increase the investnment scale for Yangtze dykes. Meanwhile, each provincial government has planned
and implemented resettlement and build new townships along the Yangtze River, relocate population
from flooded area to within the dikes, and relocate people within the river and flood plain in order to
increase the flood discharge capacity of the Yangtze River and lake storage capacity. In the middle and
upper reach areas of the Yangtze River and upstream areas of the main tributaries, hillsides are closed
to cultivation and trees planted in order to prevent soil erosion. The main river dikes and water
conservancy infrastructure of the middle and upper reach of Yangtze River are strengthened to raise
flood prevention ability, and flood and drainage standard.
The Project has good works facilities and effective operation management, produces good economic
and social benefits, and possesses the basic conditions and potential for sustainable development.
Because of the standardized management of World Bank- financed projects, the Project played a good
exemplary role in the construction of the project area. The school and health sub-projects under the
Project also get a batch of teaching and health equipment from the British grant. The design of the
scale of sub-projects not only meet the current requirement but also meet future planning need, thereby
providing conditions for sustainable development.
-29 -



The on-going implementation of Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project financed by the World Bank will
essentially control the floods of the Yangtze River on completion and play a positive role to the safety
and continued operation and maintenance of the completed facilities under the project.
Each Provincial PMO is implementing other on-going and follow-up projects financed by the World
Bank. Therefore, the provincial PMOs of the Project will continue to be maintained, assuring
organizations would be available for the long-term sustainable development.
Operation and Maintenance Plan: Effective operation and maintenance plan is an important condition
to realize project objective. Each Provincial PMO pays close attention to it and takes effective
measures for project operation and maintenance.
The PMO will maintain staff and continuity of the project work; focus on the operation management of
the Project. According to the nature and type of the project, the Provincial PMO will establish overall
project operation management plan, strengthen the guidance for the operation management work, define
the entities responsible for operation management, stipulate the management responsibilities to be
carried out by the departments at all levels.
VII. Performance of the World Bank and the Borrower
The World Bank
Perfornance of World Bank in Project Preparation Stage: The work of the World Bank staff and
experts is outstanding. They have high efficiency at work during the whole project cycle, and gave
guidance and support in technology, economy, organization and management. From project
identification in mid-September, 1999 to project appraisal in November 1999, it is obvious that World
Bank has displayed high efficiency. During the 2 months, the World Bank sent 5 missions and groups
for project identification, preparation, pre-appraisal, appraisal and project launch training, involving
some 30 staff/experts on project engineering, management, economy, finance, bidding and
procurement. The performance of the World Bank staff has left a deep impression on people of the
project area.
Performance of World Bank in Supervision: With the project implementation started retroactively on
September 18, 1998, the World Bank sent 2 supervision missions regularly every year. Each mission
composed of 5 to 6 staff of relevant expertise and the project manager for duration of about 2 weeks.
Except for discussion and wrap-up meeting, they spent most of the time visiting project sites, The
mission's scientific approach, attitude, rigorous style and hard work set good examples to the PMOs
and impressed the project staff and the local people. In addition, the World Bank also sent bidding and
procurement missions to check on bidding and procurement work carried out in the project areas.
Overall Performance of the World Bank: The World Bank staff had maintained good and close
cooperation with the provincial PMOs and the relevant implementation units. The World Bank staff
carried out the project implementation and management procedures strictly, reported and discussed any
serious deficiency, helped to analyze and solve problems, maintained close communication and
cooperation with PMO and project management staffs,
The Borrower
Preparation Stage: Each provincial government established the project-leading group in time at the
- 30-



project preparation stages and appointed experienced staff to establish the PMO. During the short two
months, each provincial Government reviewed all sub-projects, completed the project proposals and
feasibility reports, and submitted them to relevant state ministries and commissions for approval. The
government cooperated with World Bank to complete the project appraisal and negotiation promptly.
Performance of the Government at Implementation Stage: Each provincial government appointed one
vice-governor as leader of project leading group. Prefecture and county at all levels also follow the
provincial model in establishing project leading groups and project management offices. During project
implementation, relevant problems are coordinated and solved in time; the required fund of the project
was allocated adequately and timely, reflecting the government's commitment and attention to the
Project.
Performance of the Implementation Units: The Provincial PMO is responsible for implementation and
management of the Project. Each relevant department cooperated closely with the Provincial PMO and
carried out tasks assigned. With the support and cooperation of the local government and relevant
implementation units, the project implementation, supervision, technical support and monitor and
evaluation have been generally smooth.
During the project implementation, the Provincial PMOs provided good working and living condition
for the World Bank experts. The project management staff cooperated with the experts and understudy
them, thereby gaining external expertise and experience for project implementation.
Overall Performance of Borrower: Under the great attention and strong support of provincial,
prefecture and county government, and the hard work of PMOs at all levels, the Project has been
smoothly coordinated and successfully implemented, The Project is one of the best World
Bank-financed projects executed in each province.
VIII. Experiences and Lessons Learned
The World Bank-financed project involves large investment with much content covering a wide area.
During project preparation process, it involves a number of departments, such as Planning
Commission, Finance Bureau, Audit Bureau, Environmental Protection Bureau, Water Resource
Departnent. The close cooperation of these departments is important condition to do the project well.
Each dispute over trivial matter will affect and delay the normal implementation of the Project, thereby
increase the project cost.
The World Bank-financed project has character of long implementation and fund reimbursement
period. Therefore, it is very important to establish a steady and high-efficient project management
organization. In the management organization, specialized staff of various fields should be provided,
covering planning and statistics, finance, project management, agriculture, forestry and water resource.
These staff should be committed and relatively stable.
Establishing relevant regulation and rules is important foundation for good project implementation and
management. Relevant management methods should be established in order to ensure smooth project
implementation. These should cover project management, finance, and accounting and auditing,
project expenditure disbursement, tendering and procurement, monitoring and evaluation, office
working regulation. These would provide proper guidelines and procedures for project implementation
and management.
-31 -



The project goal is clear and the design rational and realistic. Resulting in keen and positive
participation of project beneficiaries, which is irnportant for successful implementation of the project.
Effective and close cooperation between the World Bank missions and the provincial PMOs throughout
the project cycle is an important factor in smooth project implementation.
As an emergency rehabilitation project, the scope and design of each sub-project should not be too
large so as to complete and achieve the desired results within the optimal time.
IX. Suggestions and Recommendations:
It is recommended that the World Bank provide different types of funding in accordance with different
projects. For projects that have repayment capabilities, IBRD loan may be provided for sub-projects
such as road and water supply. These revenue-earning sub-projects collect fees for services and
operation and maintenance on completion and have the capacity to service loan. For sub-projects that
have no revenue, such as middle or primary schools, which come under the national compulsory
education system, the schools cannot collect high fees from students and are unable to service any loan.
In fact, the loan would be repaid by government finance. Therefore, it is recommended that World
Bank provide soft loan (credit) for education sub-projects. For county and township hospitals and
health clinics, fees can be collected from patient, but rural economy lags behind that of the city at
present. Peasant's income is still low and cannot afford paying healthcare cost level charged to urban
residents. Therefore, funding for rural healthcare sub-projects could be blend of hard loan and soft
credit of appropriate proportion. Using this kind of funding arrangements for different nature of
sub-projects, it can not only help the Borrower to develop construction of infrastructures, but also
guarantee repayment of the World Bank loan and credit.
It is further recommended that World Bank provide grants for project preparation. During the flood
disaster, the governments have to bear huge financial burden for flood relief and well being of the flood
victims. If World Bank could arrange grant for project preparation, it would relieve the government
financial burden and accelerate project preparation work.
- 32 -






I                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IERD 30036T
MONGOLIA             <C                                            I  APOETTRi, mop op,,od.-ooby ho
~~~ ~~~~~rl ~~~~~~~~i  /DEM/  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~HNAF                                                            RJETCOUNTIES        Mop D..(n LMM of Th. WoId Bo-k.
YANGTIZE FLOOD EMERGENCY REHABILITATION                   PROJECT                              PROVINCE CAPITALS     d-yt.     A-
E~~~ Of                                                                 -   COUNTY  (XlAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BOUNDARIES  rEd o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~op So no---rOUNY  XIArpOU DARESon, ho poor- of- i.,".
(5  J~~~~~~~OOOO  o                                                                                           rho World Book Droop, noy jodgnoonr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th  W,I  -   -,   . j.`-
f~~~-~~ ~~nn.~~~~roi',K                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES  onrhelogol,rorooolony rorrironyor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POVICEBOUDARESth. d-
00000  Soo        0    25   SO   ~~~~~~~~~s  ioo                                               -~~~-~~-INTERNATIONAI. BOUNDARIES  .ooh hoondorrlINTENATINAL.OUNDRIE
CAUnO  ~~~~  0OnA0~~~r~~0nn  00000M ~~~KILOMETERS
I                                                                             NGSHU
j                                                         SHI     DAWU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H 
XIAN                JINZHAI~- ~      IA  IUANIG
XIAN~~~~~~~~~~~SA 
ANL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XA
MACHENG ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~PlN
XIAN  YUAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  ZHON  IANG                SH  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~   ~ ~  SIN              $AN~
XIA  x ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INRYNG"                                                    DEH~ 
JINGSHAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[EIOk
XIAN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNME ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    SA
;U' "NJ                                                                OTIAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAI
,, 3u                                                         0        XIAN AINGSHA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~N~I
oNob Yxu  I  ZIGUI                                        ha~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZIISA
XIAN     H        Hi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NZ
XIA  ---                                                                                  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SION -  IAN   IA
AN                                                                            T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COE






IMAGDNGI
Report No.:  24876
Type:  ICR
I~~~~~~~~~--



