Report No. PID7251
Project Name                     China-Yangtze Flood Emergency (+)
Rehabilitation Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Other Agriculture
Project ID                       CNPE63123
Implementing Agencies            Provinces of Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi
Final PID Date                   December 31, 1998
Appraisal Date                   November 11, 1998
Tentative Board Date             February 9, 1999
1.      Background.      Floods are very devastating in China and their occurrences
are as old as the country's history. Prolonged, widespread and intensive rain
storms are the main causes of floods. Flash floods usually occur in the hilly
areas after severe rainstorms and, combined with land slides, displace and
kill many people. More than half of China's flood casualties are in the hilly
areas where flash floods and land slides have buried villages. In addition,
the coastal areas (Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian and Guangdong Provinces) are
subject to damages caused by typhoon-related flooding and tidal surges.
3.      Beside weather, other factors contributing to floods are: (i) extensive
deforestation and cultivation in the upper catchment areas of major river
systems have caused serious soil erosion, silting and aggradation of river
channels downstream, leading to more frequent floods, higher flood levels and
volumes; (ii) Increased water diversion for consumptive uses (i.e. Yellow
River) has caused deteriorating morphology of river beds, reducing sharply the
sediment transport and carrying capacity of river channels which increases the
probability of a given flood to overtop the river banks; and (iii) large areas
of lakes and low-lying areas have been reclaimed for habitation and
cultivation, reducing the flood detention capacity that would help to reduce
the flood levels of the main rivers.
4.      Despite centuries of flood control and protection works to keep river
floods within their banks, devastation still occurs almost yearly in China in
one or more of its eight major river basins. Major flood events have occurred
in 1931, 1954, 1991, 1993, 1996 and 1998, with increasing frequency and
severity during the 1990s. The 1931 flood killed some 400,000 people and
affected more than 50 million people in the Yangtze and Huai River basins.
However, the loss of life has been significantly reduced from the pre-1950
periods due to improvements made to the main river protection systems and the
flood warning and evacuation plans that allow timely evacuation of people to
safety, and more effective control of epidemic diseases that used to kill
thousands after floods. Despite major investments in the past the flood
protection standard on the major rivers is still low, i.e.10-20 years
recurrence level of protection in the Yangtze River (without flood detention),
50-60 years in the Yellow River, 40 years in the Huai River, about 20 years in
the Liao, Songhua and Zhujiang rivers. Therefore, increasing economic
development along major rivers and in river basins would face risks of more
frequent floods and greater economic losses if no major flood control and
protection works are undertaken.



5.      The Floods of 1998.    Persistent torrential rains in the summer of 1998
caused enormous flooding in the Yangtze River Basin and Northeast China. The
floods have affected one-fifth of China's population in 29 provinces, over
3,600 people have died, and about 5 millions hectares of crops were destroyed.
There has been severe damage to infrastructure and social service facilities,
disrupting economic production and activities. Economic losses are estimated
at over US$ 36 billion. The losses and hardships of the people would have been
much worse without a massive flood fighting operation mounted by the central
government, the provinces, all levels of local government, and the armed
services.
6.      Yangtze River Flood.   The Yangtze is China's largest river, 6,300 km long
with a basin covering 1.8 million square km. It holds half a billion people or
45 percent of China's total population, produces about 42 percent of its GDP,
and consumes just over 43 percent of the country's total investment in fixed
assets. A combination of events caused the vast areas of inundation in the
Yangtze basin. In the Yangtze's middle reach, wide spread unprecedented
rainstorms occurred during June and July and caused flash floods in the
provinces of Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi. Rivers and lakes were rapidly filled.
The resultant torrential floods in the hilly regions, coupled with mud slides,
caused devastating damages to villages along the rivers and killed many.
Flooding in the lake and poldered areas was further aggravated by the high
river stages in the Yangtze River (in all eight flood peak waves occurred)
when upstream flood water arrived during August and early September.
Consequently, vast areas behind the Yangtze River dikes were inundated for
almost three months due to back flow of Yangtze water. Some poldered areas
were deliberately breached for flood release and detention to reduce critical
flood levels threatening the key city of Wuhan. The 1998 flood water levels
recorded in the Yangtze exceeded the 1954 levels, the highest of modern times.
7.      Commendable efforts were organized by the provincial government to
contain the Yangtze River flood from breaching the main dikes. Millions of
people affected by the flood were evacuated to safety on high grounds and on
top of the dikes. The flood has made millions homeless, destroyed or damaged
many infrastructure and social services facilities. There is an urgent need
for aftermath flood recovery works to restore and rehabilitate the damaged and
destroyed public infrastructure and social services so as to restore rapidly
the economic production systems.
8.      Project Objectives.      The objective of the proposed project is to rebuild
social and economic infrastructure damaged by the devastating floods in Hubei,
Hunan and Jiangxi provinces, thereby restoring rapidly economic production and
social services. In the project design, priorities have been given to
restoration and reconstruction of water supply and health facilities to
prevent spread of diseases after flood, and roads to restore key access to the
flooded areas so as to re-generate economic activities.
9.      Project Description.   The project is located in 54 counties of Hubei
(27), Hunan (15) and Jiangxi (12) provinces that were most severely damaged by
floods during June to September 1998. The main components are:
Roads: Restoration and reconstruction of 84 county and rural roads covering a
total length of 945 km ($49.5 million).
Water Supply: Restoration and reconstruction of 55 damaged county and township
-2 -



water supply systems, serving a total population of about 2.5 million people
($30.3 million).
Schools: Restoration and reconstruction of 199 county and township secondary
and primary schools serving a total student population of about 222,000 ($18.7
million).
Hospitals and Clinics: Restoration and reconstruction of 146 county and
township hospitals, health centers and clinics, serving a total population of
about 4.0 million people ($16.0).
Irrigation: Restoring 18 irrigation areas covering a total of 44,200 ha ($7.5
million) and benefiting about 446,00 0 farmers.
Studies and Technical Assistance: Provision for each province to upgrade
existing or     developing flood forecasting. simulation and dispatch systems,
taking into account the          recent flood experience ($1.3 million).
10.     Project Costs and Financing.     The project cost is estimated at RMB 1,100
million (US$ 132.5 million equivalent). The Bank Group will provide a Loan of
$40 million and a Credit of SDR28.9 million (US$40 million equivalent) which
will meet 60 percent of the total cost. The remaining $52.5 million will be
provided by the Government.
11.     Project Management Structure     Project Leading Groups (PLGs) would be
established at the province, prefecture, city, and county levels to organize
and direct implementation of project works. The members of these PLGs would
include directors or vice directors of Finance, Planning, Construction
Commission, City/Urban Construction, Transportation, Health, and Education
Bureaus. The main functions of the PLGs are to coordinate the different
government agencies involved, to approve major policies related to the flood
reconstruction activities, and to make sure that the counterpart funds for the
project are available in adequate amounts and in a timely manner. Under each
PLG, Project Management Office (PMO) would be set up to coordinate project
preparation, supervise project implementation, review and verify claims for
reimbursement, and consolidate such claims and submit them to the Provincial
Finance Bureau for payment from the Special Account. The Provincial PMO will
prepare progress reports in a format agreed with the Bank and arrange for
accounts and audits.
12.     Rationale for Bank Involvement. Bank involvement in the proposed project
will accelerate the restoration of economic and social activities through the
rebuilding of water supply works, roads, schools, and health centers. The
project is consistent with the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for
China (No. 16321-CHA) presented to the Board on March 18, 1997 and the CAS
Progress Report (No. R98-107) on May 28, 1998, focusing on poverty alleviation
and the reconstruction of essential infrastructure. The next CAS, currently
under preparation, will address the Bank's short- and long-term strategy in
the water sector in view of the increasing flood frequency and economic losses
suffered in the county. The current Water Sector Study is also addressing
this flood issue.
13.     Responding to a request for assistance from the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), a Bank reconnaissance mission visited the affected areas in Hubei,
Hunan and Jiangxi Provinces from September 16 to 22, 1998. This was followed
-3 -



by an appraisal mission from November 11 to 24, 1998.
14.     Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Group Assistance.      China has
previously received assistance from the Bank Group after major natural
disasters. Recovery and salvage operations after a major forest fire in
northeastern China were successfully supported under the Da Xing An Ling
Forest Fire Rehabilitation Program (FY88, $56.9 million), and earthquake
reconstruction was supported under (a) China Earthquake Reconstruction Project
(FY90, $30 million equivalent); and (b) the Inner Mongolia and Yunnan
Earthquake Reconstruction Program (FY97, $65 million equivalent); and (c)
Hebei Earthquake Rehabilitation project (FY98, $28.4 million equivalent). The
proposed project is essentially modeled on the North China Earthquake Project
and the Inner Mongolia and Yunnan Earthquake Reconstruction. In the North
China Earthquake Project the relevant lessons highlighted in the Bank Group's
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) Performance Audit Report dated June 27,
1996, included: (a) the importance of strong local leadership and local
project management offices; (b) attention to the Borrower's views; (c)
minimization of bottlenecks in the project's cash flow to accelerate urgent
reconstruction activities; and (d) the benefits of using "fast track" project
processing in the Bank Group. These lessons have been applied to a large
extent in the preparation of this proposed loan and credit.
15.     Environmental and Social Aspects.              The project is essentially designed
to rebuild facilities and restore services damaged by the flood and will
provide safer water supplies and repair hospitals and clinics that will treat
flood-related illnesses. Therefore, the project will have beneficial effects
and no adverse impacts on environment. The government has issued policy
directives on banning of logging, restoration of forest in upper catchment
areas, intensification of soil and water conservation measure, restoration of
flood detention capacity in major lakes, and massive resettlement of people in
low-lying areas to higher grounds less vulnerable to flood. These policy
directives would have significant long-term improvements of the environment.
The project is therefore rated as a "B." Little or no involuntary
resettlement and land acquisition is expected for construction of project
works, except for a few flood-damaged water supply plants to be relocated
could necessitate land acquisition and compensation to some households. As
the exact quantities could only be determined after the required technical
feasibility studies have been completed. The project provinces have prepared
policy framework to resolve any involuntary resettlement, land acquisition and
compensation encountered during project implementation. The policy framework
has been reviewed by the Bank.
16.     Project Benefits.        As an emergency recovery loan to restore existing
basic infrastructure and social services damaged and destroyed by floods,
financial and economic analyses have been considered. Instead, the benefits
and social impacts have been assessed. Some 84 county roads with a total
length of 945 km would be restored to provide vital access for economic
activities. A total of 55 county and township damaged water supply plants
would be restored or reconstructed to provide clean and safe water to about
2.5 million people. The proposed 199 secondary and primary schools to be
restored would accommodate 222,000 students who are now temporarily dispersed
to neighboring schools or placed in make-shift schools. Importantly, the 143
hospitals, health centers and clinics to be restored would serve a total of
about 4.0 million/year and their early completion would help to control spread
of gastro-intestinal diseases in the flooded areas. Some 44,200 ha of
- 4 -



irrigation land in 18 areas would have their irrigation facilities restored
for early production by some 446,000 farmers. Since the damages are so wide
spread and severe that it is not possible for the limited Bank Loan/Credit to
cover all the flooded areas in each province. However, for the selected
project counties and townships, the sub-projects to be implemented would
restore significant social services and facilities, thereby helping to re-
generate economic production and activities.
17.     Project Sustainability.     The project would be sustainable as it
essentially restores and reconstructs existing infrastructure and facilities
destroyed or damaged by floods. Upon completion, the various sub-projects
would be taken over for operation and ,maintenance by the existing local
governments by the present operation and maintenance units. Infrastructure
and facilities would be fully used as the flood affected communities are in
dire need of such facilities and services.
18.     Risks.       Project implementation may be delayed because of a lack of
local counterpart funds and delays in the procurement. In order to accelerate
project implementation it has been agreed to finance a large proportion of the
investment costs from the Bank Loan/Credit. The Bank has also agreed to
simplify procurement and disbursement procedures. A project launch workshop
will be conducted to train project staff in project implementation and
management, especially on procurement, disbursement and financial management.
Risks of similar floods in the near future exist and difficult to predict.
However, in the restoration and reconstruction of infrastructure and services
elements of flood-resilience to similar future floods have been considered in
the planning and design as far as practicable.
Contact points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Hubei Province:                  Mr. Ma Shan Zheng, Division Chief
Project Management Office
Hubei Provincial Foreign Capital
Financed Project Office
17 Dong Yi Road
Shuiguobu Wuchang
Wuhan 430071, Hubei Province, China
Fax No. 86-27-8731-8562
Hunan Province:                  Mr. Hu Wei Ling, Director
Hunan Bureau of Finance
1 Chengnan West Road
Changshs 410007, Hunan Province, China
Fax No. 86-731-516-5184
Jiangxi Province:                Mr. Fang Ming Ming, Division Chief
Foreign Economic Cooperation Division
Jiangxi Bureau of Finance
47 Ruzi Road
-5 -



Nanchang, Jiangxi Province, China
Fax No. 86-791-622-6735
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 15, 1999.
- 6 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-7-



