Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3169 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Yangtze Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 11, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3169 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank 
(the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate 
principal amount equal to forty million Dollars ($40,000,000) (the Loan); 
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
Page  2
(D)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower’s Provinces of Hubei, 
Hunan and Jiangxi (the Project Provinces) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part 
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Project Provinces the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in the Loan Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and the Project Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who on account of the execution of the 
Project had or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or 
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently, or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected, and “Affected Persons” means collectively all persons who qualify 
as an Affected Person. 
(b)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(c)
“Hubei” means the Borrower’s Province of Hubei, and any successor 
thereto. 
(d)
“Hubei Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(i) of this Agreement. 
(e)
“Hunan” means the Borrower’s Province of Hunan, and any successor 
thereto. 
Page  3
(f)
“Hunan Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(ii) of this Agreement. 
(g)
“Jiangxi” means the Borrower’s Province of Jiangxi, and any successor 
thereto.
(h)
“Jiangxi Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b)(iii) of this Agreement. 
(i)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement. 
(j)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and the Project Provinces of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement. 
(k)
“Project Areas” means, in respect of each Project Province, the areas 
within said Project Province, selected by agreement between the Association and said 
Project Province, in which the Project is to be carried out; and “Project Area” means 
any of the Project Areas.
(l)
“Project Beneficiaries” means, in respect of each Project Province, the 
prefectures, counties and townships selected by agreement between the Association and 
said Project Province in which the relevant Respective Part of the Project is to be 
carried out.
(m)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of: (i) Hubei, Part A 
of the Project; (ii) Hunan, Part B of the Project; and (iii) Jiangxi, Part C of the 
Project. 
(n)
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the Hubei Special Account, the 
Hunan Special Account and the Jiangxi Special Account; and “Special Account” means any 
of the Special Accounts. 
(o)
“Subproject” means a specific reconstruction or restoration project to be 
carried out in a Project Province under Part A(1), Part B(1) or Part C(1) of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty eight million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 28,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain the 
following three special accounts in Dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment: (i) one for Hubei’s 
Respective Part of the Project, (ii) another for Hunan’s Respective Part of the 
Project and (iii) a third, for Jiangxi’s Respective Part of the Project. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, each  Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2009 and ending October 15, 2033. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2018 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause the Project Provinces to carry out the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, shall take and cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources necessary or appropriate to enable the Project Provinces to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
For the purpose of having each Project Province carry out its Respective 
Part of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to each Project Province part 
of the proceeds of the Credit on the following principal terms: 
(i)
the principal amount so made available to said Project Province 
shall be the 
equivalent in terms of Special Drawing Rights (determined as 
of the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Credit 
Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn on 
account of the cost of items required 
for said Project Province’s 
Respective Part of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds 
of the Credit (the Credit Amount), and shall be recovered 
by the 
Borrower in Dollars; 
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover the Credit Amount from said Project 
Province in 
semi-annual installments over a period of 17 years, 
inclusive of a grace 
period of 5 years; 
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge interest on the Credit Amount withdrawn 
and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate which shall not 
exceed the charge 
payable by the Borrower from time to time 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement; and
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge a commitment fee on the principal amount 
of the 
Credit so made available and not withdrawn from time 
to time at a rate which 
shall not exceed one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03 The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B and 
C of the Project shall be carried out by Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi, respective, 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
Page  6
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this 
Section, including those for the Special Accounts, for each 
fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that a Project Province will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, except only the effectiveness of the Development 
Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by each Project Province and is legally binding upon 
said Project Province in accordance with its terms.
Page  7
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Loan
Page  8
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and 
the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Amount of the
   % of
(Expressed in
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
(Expressed in $)
to be Financed
(1)
Works:
(a)
for Part A of    8,430,000
10,315,000)
65%
the Project
   )
   )
(b)
for Part B of    9,280,000
12,518,000)
the Project
   )
   )
(c)
for Part C of    9,300,000
12,597,000)
the Project
   )
(2)
Goods:
(a)
for Part A of    1,320,000
 2,650,000)
100% of foreign
the Project
   )
expenditures,
   )
100% of local
(b)
for Part B of      290,000
   400,000)
expenditures (ex-
the Project
   )
factory costs) and
   )
75% of local
(c)
for Part C of      280,000
   320,000)
expenditures for
the Project
   )
other items
   )
procured locally
(3)
Consultants' service:
100%
(a)
for Part A of
   400,000)
the Project
   )
   )
(b)
for Part B of
   200,000)
the Project
   )
   )
(c)
for Part C of
   200,000)
the Project
   )
(4)
Fee
   400,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreement
TOTAL
   28,900,000
40,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region shall be deemed “foreign 
expenditures”; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 11,542,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after September 16, 1998.
Page  9
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and Loan Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods 
under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts 
costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent each; (c) consulting services under contracts 
awarded to consulting firms and costing less than $100,000 each; and (d) consulting 
services under contracts awarded to individuals and costing less than $50,000 each; 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in rebuilding economic 
and social infrastructure damaged by floods in Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi, thereby 
facilitating the restoration of economic and social activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Hubei
(1)
Carrying out of the following specific reconstruction and restoration projects: 
(a)
Road and Bridge Reconstruction and Restoration Reconstruction and 
restoration in 10 Project Areas of Hubei of approximately 130 kilometers of roads and 
2 bridges. 
(b)
Water Supply Reconstruction and Restoration Reconstruction and 
Restoration of about 7 water plants in the Project Areas of Hubei. 
(c)
School Reconstruction and Restoration Reconstruction and restoration of 
approximately 38 schools in the Project Areas of Hubei. 
(d)
Hospital, Health Center and Clinic Reconstruction and Restoration 
Reconstruction and restoration of about 32 hospitals, health centers and clinics in 
the Project Areas of Hubei. 
(e)
Irrigation and Drainage Reconstruction and Restoration Reconstruction and 
restoration of irrigation and drainage facilities in approximately 18 Project Areas of 
Hubei. 
(2)
Flood Control Management Development of a Decision Support System (DSS) to 
evaluate and optimize options for flood management with relation to flood protection 
levels of Yangtze River dikes and flood diversion into flood detention areas.
Part B:
Hunan
(1)
Carrying out of the following specific reconstruction and restoration projects: 
(a)
Road Reconstruction and Restoration Reconstruction and Restoration in 25 
Project Areas of Hunan of approximately 465 kilometers of roads and 3 bridges. 
(b)
Water Supply Reconstruction and Restoration Reconstruction and 
Restoration of about 18 water plants in the Project Areas of Hunan. 
(c)
School Reconstruction and Restoration Reconstruction and restoration of 
about 28 schools in the Project Areas of Hunan. 
(d)
Hospital, Health Center and Clinic Reconstruction and Restoration 
Reconstruction and restoration of about 18 hospitals, health centers and clinics in 
the Project Areas of Hunan. 
(2)
Flood Control Management Development of a computerized model for flood 
forecasting, simulation and dispatch of the Zhi River system. 
Page  10
Part C:
Jiangxi
(1)
Carrying out of the following specific reconstruction and restoration projects: 
(a)
Road and Bridge Reconstruction and Restoration Reconstruction and 
restoration of approximately 351 kilometers of 49 roads and 926 bridges and culverts 
in 12 Project Areas in Jiangxi. 
(b)
Water Supply Reconstruction and Restoration Reconstruction and 
Restoration of about 30 water plants in 11 Project Areas in Jiangxi.
(c)
School Reconstruction and Restoration Reconstruction and restoration of 
about 133 schools in the Project Areas of Jiangxi. 
(d)
Hospital, Health Center and Clinic Reconstruction and Restoration 
Reconstruction and Restoration of about 93 hospitals, health centers and clinics in 12 
Project Areas in Jiangxi. 
(2)
Flood Control Management Development of a computerized model for flood 
forecasting, simulation and dispatch of the Gan and Xiu River systems.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Accounts 
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means: (i) in respect of the Hubei Special 
Account, Categories 1(a), 2(a) and 3(a); (ii) in respect of the Hunan Special Account, 
Categories 1(b), 2(b) and 3(b); and (iii) in respect of the Jiangxi Special Account, 
Categories 1(c), 2(c) and 3(c); 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means, in respect of each of the Special 
Accounts, an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
or the Loan Account and deposited into said Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) 
of this Schedule. 2.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation for said 
Special Account and subsequent withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be 
made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit into 
said Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into said Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
Page  11
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into 
said Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of said Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the 
Credit Account and the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for said Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories for said Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank in respect 
of the relevant Project Province’s Respective Part of the Project pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the respective General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for said special Account. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
such Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into said Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
Page  12
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
