Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3169 CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4438 CHA
Project Agreement
(Yangtze Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HUBEI PROVINCE
and 
HUNAN PROVINCE
and
JIANGXI PROVINCE
Dated March 11, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3169 CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4438 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1999, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
and HUBEI PROVINCE, HUNAN PROVINCE and JIANGXI PROVINCE (collectively, the Project 
Provinces and individually a Project Province). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty eight million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 28,900,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to forty 
million Dollars ($40,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Association’s entering 
Page  2
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank’s entering into 
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit 
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively) have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and wherever used in this Agreement (except in Section 5.03 hereof and Part 
A.2 of Section I and Part A.2 of Section II of Schedule 1 hereto), references to the 
Association, the Credit or the Credit Account shall also be deemed as references to 
the Bank, the Loan and the Loan Account, respectively. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for its Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each of the Project Provinces 
shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall carry out the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and its Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement and Section 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable 
to the Loan Agreement, and without limitation thereto, each of the Project Provinces 
shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and 
said Project Province, a plan for 
the future operation of its Respective Part 
of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with said 
Project Province, on said plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
Page  3
(b)
Each of the Project Provinces shall promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or 
the performance by said Project Province, of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the carrying out of its Respective 
Part of the Project.
(b)
Each Project Province shall: 
(i)
have its records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of 
its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Project Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates: 
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or 
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify each of the Project Provinces of this 
event. 
Section 4.03. All these provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
Page  4
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Hubei:
The People’s Government of Hubei Province 
Hongshan Road Shuiguo Hu, Wuchang Wuhan 430071
Hubei Province
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:  
027-87894271
For Hunan:
The People’s Government of Hunan Province
69 Wuyi Road
Changsha 
Hunan Province
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:   
0731-4421029
For Jiangxi:
The People’s Government of Jiangxi Province
69 Beijing West Road
Nanchang 330046
Jiangxi Province
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:   
0791-6271447
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Project 
Province may be taken or executed by any Vice Governor of said Project Province, or by 
such other person or persons as said Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and 
each Project Province shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to the 
Project Provinces and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have 
terminated prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of the Project Provinces to consult with, and to furnish 
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be 
satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the 
Association;
Page  5
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, the Project Provinces shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are 
fulfilled by the Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Authorized Representative
HUBEI PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing 
Authorized Representative
HUNAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing 
Authorized Representative
JIANGXI PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of goods or works to be financed in whole or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.9 of 
the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
Page  6
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section I, goods and works shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower). 
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C: 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract and goods 
estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works 
Essential emergency works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $70,000,000 equivalent, for which 
quotations have been obtained prior to September 1, 1999, and other works estimated to 
cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully.
3.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitation to bid for contracts or the commencement 
of procurement through national shopping and small works procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of Part C of this Section I, the proposed procurement plan for the 
Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  7
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of consultants' services to be financed in 
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraph 1.10 
of the Consultant Guidelines to "Bank member countries" and "member country" shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating Countries" and "Participating 
Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Page  8
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. \0c
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement. 
1.
Project Management 
Each of the Project Provinces shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
throughout the period of implementation of its Respective Part of the Project, project 
leading groups and project management offices at the provincial, prefecture and county 
levels, each with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association and 
with competent staff in adequate numbers. 
2.
Financing
Each of Hubei, Hunan and Jiangxi shall make available to each of the Project 
Beneficiaries the portion of the Credit and Loan proceeds required for the activities 
to be carried out by said Project Beneficiary under said Project Province’s Respective 
Part of the Project and to be financed out of such proceeds on the following terms and 
conditions:
(A)
With respect to the Credit: 
(i)
The principal amount of the proceeds of the Credit so made 
available shall be 
the equivalent in terms of Special Drawing Rights 
(determined as of the date 
or respective dates of withdrawal from 
the Credit Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so 
withdrawn on account of the cost of items required 
for such activities 
undertaken by such Project Beneficiary under said 
Respective 
Part of the Project, and to be financed out of such proceeds (the 
Credit 
Amount) and shall be recovered from the Project Beneficiary in Dollars; 
(ii)
such Credit Amount shall be repaid over a period of up to 
seventeen (17) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of up to 
five (5) years; and 
(iii)
a service charge of up to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
per annum 
shall be paid on such Credit Amount withdrawn and not repaid 
from time to 
time.
(B)
With respect to the Loan: 
(i)
the principal amount of the proceeds of the Loan so made available 
shall be 
the equivalent in terms of Dollars (determined as of the 
date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment 
out of the Special 
Account, as the case may be) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn or paid out for such 
activities undertaken by such Project 
Beneficiary under said 
Respective Part of the Project, and to be financed out 
of such 
proceeds (the Loan Amount) and shall be recovered from the Project 
Beneficiary in Dollars; 
Page  9
(ii)
the Loan Amount shall be repaid over a period of up to twenty (20) 
years, 
inclusive of a grace period of up to five (5) years; 
and 
(iii)
interest at a rate not exceeding that payable by the Borrower to 
the Bank in 
respect of such proceeds under the terms of the Loan 
Agreement shall be paid 
on such Loan Account withdrawn and not repaid 
from time to time. 
3.
Subprojects
Each reconstruction or restoration project proposed for inclusion in a Project 
Province’s Respective Part of the Project shall qualify as a Subproject eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit only if it meets the following 
requirements:
(a)
said Project Province has determined on the basis of an appraisal carried 
out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association that:  
(i) 
the Subproject has been selected from a list of flood-damaged 
facilities 
which: (A) are urgently needed by the community; (B) 
give priority to 
townships in poldered areas; (C) are capable 
of being repaired at a reasonable 
cost; (D) would, upon repair, be 
expected to be resistant to future floods; 
and (E) would, once 
repaired, enhance the productive activities of the Project 
Beneficiary 
concerned; 
(ii)
the Subproject is technically feasible; 
(iii)
the Subproject is in compliance with environmental standards 
acceptable to the 
Association, and with all applicable laws and 
regulations of the Borrower 
relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection; and
(iv)
if the Subproject would involve Affected Persons, it includes a 
plan for 
resettlement and compensation for all said persons 
which: (A) has been 
prepared on the basis of policies, 
planning principles, institutional 
arrangements and design 
criteria acceptable to the Association, designed to 
improve the living 
standards and productive capacity of such persons; and (B) 
in the case 
of a Subproject involving 200 Affected Persons or more, has been 
furnished to, and approved by, the Association; and 
(b)
if the total estimated cost of the Subproject exceeds $1,200,000, its 
appraisal report has been furnished to the Association and the Association has 
communicated to said Project Province its acceptance of the inclusion of the 
Subproject in said Project Province’s Respective Part of the Project.
4.
Annual Work Plan
Each Project Province shall: (a) no later than November 30 in each year, 
commencing November 30, 1999, submit to the Association for its review and approval a 
detailed work plan for the following calendar year; (b) no later than December 31 in 
each year finalize said work plan taking into account the Association’s comments 
thereon; and (c) thereafter carry out said work plan in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.
5.
Procurement and Completion of Essential Emergency Works
Each Project Province shall ensure that essential emergency works procured in 
accordance with paragraph 2 of Part C of Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
shall be completed within 12 months of the commencement of such works. 
6.
Monitoring and Reporting
Each of the Project Provinces shall: 
Page  10
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association semi-annual reports on or about January 31 and July 31 in 
each year, commencing July 31, 1999, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, within thirty (30) days of its being 
furnished to the Association, or such later date as may be agreed with the 
Association, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section for which it is 
responsible, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
