Page  1
March
17,
1998
Mr. Jin Liqun
Vice Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Beijing
People
’s Republic of China
Re:
United Kingdom Grant for Flood Rehabilitation and Prevention
Grant TF
021759
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(IDA)
to
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the United
Kingdom to make a grant in an amount not exceeding three million pounds sterling
(£3,000,000) (the Grant) to People’s Republic of China (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
AGREED:
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
/s/
Pan Xiaojiang
Deputy Direcor-General
Date:
March 22, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in rebuilding the social and 
economic infrastructure damaged by the recent floods of the Yangtze River Basin in the
following counties of the Recipient’s Provinces of Hubei, Hunan, and Jiangxi that have 
been affected by the floods and are either: (i) officially designated as poor 
counties, or
(ii) have become poor as a result of the floods, (the Affected Counties):
Affected Counties of Hubei Province:
Yin Xin, Da Wu, Xin Chun, Jian Ning, En Shi, Xuan En, Lai Feng, Huang Shi, Da Yu, Jin
Zhou, Song Chi, Gong An, Shi Shou, Jian Li, Hong Hu, Er Zhou, Han Chuan, Huang Gan, Xi
Page  2
Shui, Huang Mei, Tuan Mei, Wu Xue, Jia Yu, Che Pi, Xian Tao
Affected Counties of Hunan Province:
An Xian, Li Xian, Hua Rong, Yue Yang, Wan Chen, An Hua, Ji Shou, Xin Hua, Suan Zhi, Zi
Li
Affected Counties of Jiangxi Province:
Po Yang, Yu Gan, Yi Yang, Wan Nian, Du Chang, Hu Kou, Xin Zhi, Jiu Jiang, Rong Xin,
Peng Zhe, Xin Jian
The activities
(the Activities) for which the Contribution is given and to be 
carried out by the Recipient
’s Provinces of Hubei, Hunan, and Jiangxi are as follows:
(a)
Provision of equipment for education and health facilities in the 
Affected Counties; and
(b)
Undertaking of studies and provision of advisory services to the 
Recipient on long-term planning of flood control and mitigation in the Recipient’s 
Provinces of Hubei, Hunan, and Jiangxi
(the Affected Provinces).
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency through the Affected Provinces;
(b)
promptly provide the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for that purpose;
(c)
furnish all information
covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall
reasonably request;
(d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's representatives on 
the progress and results of the Activities; and
(e)
take all necessary measures
required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to
the Grant.
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so
request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a
report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the
Activities.
2.2.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, for the purposes of carrying out the 
Activities, the Recipient shall allocate the proceeds of the Grant as follows:  (a) 
£1,000,000 equivalent for the Province of Hubei; (b) £1,000,000 equivalent for the 
Province of Hunan; and
(c) £1,000,000 equivalent for the Province of Jiangxi.
2.3.
The Recipient shall make available to each Affected Province its share of the 
proceeds of the Grant on a non-reimbursable grant basis.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services 
and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this
Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to
replace or repair such goods.
The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with
appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly
made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
%
of
Page  3
Amount of the Grant
Expenditures to
Item
Allocated
(in U.S.Dollars)
be Financed
(1)
Consultants
’
100%
services under
paragraph
1.1(b) 
above:
(a)
for Hubei 
Province
121,000
(b)
for Hunan 
Province
121,000
(c)
for Jiangxi 
Province
121,000
(2)
Goods under 
100% of foreign
paragraph
1.1
(a)
above:
expenditures 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
75%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(a)
for Hubei 
Province
879,000
(b)
for Hunan 
Province
879,000
(c)
for Jiangxi 
Province
879,000
TOTAL
3,000,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient, provided,
however, that expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative
Region of the People’s Republic of China for goods or services supplied from said 
region shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures"; and the term "local expenditures" 
means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA;
(ii)
on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the
territory of the Recipient;
(iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services supplied
from such territories;
(iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
Charter of the United Nations; or
(v) after March 1, 2001 or such later date as IDA 
shall establish by written notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date), except that 
withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the
corresponding application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant
Account shall be canceled; and
(b) if, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant 
allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph
4.2
above will be insufficient
to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another
item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the
form specified by IDA.
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Recipient’s Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she 
shall have authorized in writing; and
(b)
be accompanied by such evidence in support
of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.
Authenticated specimen signatures
of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the
first application bearing his or her signature.
Each withdrawal application for an
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and
Page  4
substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from
the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the
Activities.
IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent; and (c) goods under contract costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to
the Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.
IDA, at the Recipient
’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant.
Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account for Hubei Province
(the Hubei Province 
Special Account), a special deposit account for Hunan Province (the Hunan Province 
Account), and a special deposit account for Jiangxi Province
(the Jiangxi Province
Special Account), in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph
(a)
above and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(ii)
furnish to IDA as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to IDA such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph
(a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or
(b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the IBRD) 
has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any
loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have
been suspended.
Page  5
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1
above; or
(b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
7.
Availability of Funds
7.1.
IDA shall not be obligated to expend funds under the Grant except to the extent 
IDA shall have received funds from the United Kingdom for this purpose.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants
’
Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’
services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by IDA in January 1997 and revised in 
September
1997
and January
1999
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3
of Appendix
1
thereto, Appendix
2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs
3.13
through
3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-
and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than
$100,000
equivalent per contract may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.1 
and
3.7
of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
5.1
of the Consultant
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1
through
5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by
IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.
The contract shall be awarded
only after said approval shall have been given.
Page  6
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
Section II.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by IDA in 
January
1995
and revised in January and August
1996
and September
1997
and January
1999
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph
5
of Appendix
1
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs
2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient
(other
than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the
Recipient.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
For each Affected Province, goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3 
and
3.4
of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
For each Affected Province, goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5
and
3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
For each Affected Province, goods estimated to cost less than
$50,000
equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5
and
3.6
of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts or the
commencement of procurement through international or national shopping in accordance
with Part C of this Section II, the proposed procurement plan for the Activities shall
be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  7
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means for the Hubei Province Special Account 
the items
(1)(a) and 2(a), for the Hunan Province Special Account the items (1)(b) and 
(2)(b), and for the Jiangxi Province Special Account the items (1)(c) and (2)(c) and 
all as set forth in the table in paragraph
4.2
to the Annex to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
(i)
$200,000 for the Hubei Province Special Account; 
(ii)
$200,000 for the Hunan Province Special Account; and
(iii)
$200,000 for the Jiangxi Province Special Account;
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into such Special Account
pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into said Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account
and deposit into said Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into said Special
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Attachment for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.
On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into said
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence
to have been paid out of said Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of a Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
Page  8
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph
5.1
(b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for said Special
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Recipient.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph
2
of this Attachment; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B)
deposit into said Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into said Special Account shall
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.
