GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
1to3 2 3BHt
Bhutan
-    Trust Fund for Environmental Conservation
- ~ ~ ~  
Project Document
May1 992
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming. pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme.the United Nations Eivironment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environimienit
Coordination Division
Environment Department
Worlci Bank
1818 H Street. NW
Washingtoni. DC 20433
Telepholne: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Bhutan
Trust Fund for Environmental Conservation
Project Document
May 1992
THE WORLD BANK



CURRENCY QOUIVALENTS
(As of November 1991)
Bhutanese Ngultrum (Nu)         =       100 Chetrum
US$1.00                         =       Nu 25.75
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)                =      0.62 miles
1 meter (m)                     =       1.09 yards
1 hectare (ha)                  =       10,000 m2 (0.01 km2) - 2.471
acres
ABBRBVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BTF       -    Bhutan Trust Fund for Environmental Conservation
DANIDA    -    Danish International Development Agency
DOF       -    Department of Forestry
EEC       -    European Economic Community
GEF       -    Global Environment Facility
GET       -    Global Environment Trust Fund
MB        -    Management Board
MOU       -    Memorandum of Understanding
NCD       -    Nature Conservation Division
NGO       -    Non-governmental organization
PC        -    Program Coordinator
RGOB      -    Royal Government of Bhutan
STAP      -    Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel of GEF
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
UNEP      -    United Nations Environment Programme
WLD       -    Wildlife Division
WWF-US    -    World Wildlife Fund, Inc.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



BHUTAN
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
Grant Summary
Source of Grant:          Global Environment Trust Fund
Grant Recipient:          Kingdom of Bhutan
Beneficiary:              Kingdom of Bhutan
Amount:                   SDR 7.30 million (US$10.0 million equivalent)
On Lendina Terms:         Not applicable
Terms:                    Grant from Global Environment Trust Fund
Financino Plan:                  FOREIGN
(USS Million)
GEF Grant                           10.0
WWF-US                               1.0
Bilateral Grants                     1.0
Total                              12.0
Economic Rate of
Return:                   Not applicable
Technical ADoendix:       Report No. 10323 dated May 21, 1992
I=:                       IBRD No. 23511R






BHUTAN
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
Backaround
1.        The Country Setting.  Bhutan has a wide range of altitudinal
zones and micro-climatic conditions which have created highly diverse
ecosystems ranging from tropical and subtropical foreots in the southern
lowlands to the sparse alpine meadows in the northern part bordering the
Tibetan region of China. Relatively underpopulated with just over 600,000
people, Bhutan may possess the greatest biological diversity for its small
area in the world (see Technical Appendix, paras. 2.1-2.3), and it in-
cludes the last refuge of many species of flora and fauna that have been
almost wiped out elsewhere in the Himalayan region due to habitat destruc-
tion caused by a rapidly expanding human population.
2.        RGOB is determined to prevent the environmental degradation
which has occurred elsewhere in the Himalayas from occurring in Bhutan.
In 1974, RGOB directed that 60 percent of its land area should remain
under forest cover. It has also decided that some 20 percent of its area
should be set aside as protected areas to preserve Bhutan's diverse and
unique flora and fauna. The adoption of these policies involves a major
sacrifice since the exploitation of forest resources, together with
hydropower generation, is a major source of Bhutan's economic growth.
Although RGOB's policies regarding biological diversity conservation are
commendable, in practice, RGOB is facing serious financial, institutional,
and human resource constraints in implementing conservation programs
because of a small population, limited economic activity, and hence low
gcvernment revenues. A nationwide program of biological diversity
conservation is well beyond RGOB's present and foreseeable financial
capacity, and RGOB's stated intentions regarding conservation are unlikely
to be achieved through its regular budget. Implementation capacity is
also severely limited. The Wildlife Division (WLD), which has primary
responsibility for biological diversity protection, currently has only two
senior staff and very few staff with any formal training in wildlife and
protected areas management.
3.        The Creation of the BTF.  The concept of a trust fund as a
mechanism to ensure sustainable financing for the preservation of Bhutan's
biological diversity was developed by RGOB in association with WWF-US and
UNDP in 1989, and the BTF itself was established in March 1991. (The MOU
creating the BTF is attached as the Technical Appendix, Annex 1.)
The sponsors of BTF felt that, in order to be an effective instrument for
sustainable financing, BTF should have a minimum capital of US$20.0
million of which US$10.0 million would be sought from the GET and US$10.0
million from other donors. They also agreed that the BTF could become
operational with an initial capital of US$10.0 million. BTF funds would
be held in trust by UNDP and would generate an income stream which would
be used to finance a wide range of activities in support of biological
diversity conservation. A Management Board (MB) including RGOB, UNDP, and
WWF is entrusted with BTF management and administration.   It is the MB's
intention to preserve the real value of its initial capital in order to



2
generate a sustainable revenue stream for as long as possible, and this is
to be achieved by returning a part of the investment income to the
principal each year to compensate for inflation. Depending on the scale
of contributions received initially, BTF would meet growing expenditures
by raising additional capital, by preparing project proposals to catalyze
additional investment in specific activities, and if necessary, by drawing
down BTF funds in excess of US$10.0 million in constant 1992 dollar terms.
Since BTF funds for program expenditures are derived from income generated
by investing its capital, GET's assistance will augment BTF's capital and
not support its expenditures directly.
The Prolect
4.        Proiect Obiectives.  The project has two principal objectives.
The first objective is to assist RGOB in conserving its forestry and
preserving the rich biological diversity which will increasingly be under
pressure because of population growth and economic development.
The second is to test the feasibility of trust funds as a mechanism for
providing long-term and sustainable support for conservation of biological
diversity. Setting up a trust fund from which GEF and other donor
resources generate an income stream to support project activities is
unprecedented in the projects supported by the Bank, and the proposed
project is designed to ascertain whether this form of trust fund is a
suitable and replicable arrangement. The project also demonstrates
international support for Bhutan's enlightened approach to natural
resource management.
5.        Proiect DescriDtion.  The types of activities eligible for BTF
funding are described in the MOU and have been reviewed by the Bank and
found to be consistent with GEF's criteria for biological diversity
conservation (Technical Appendix, Annex 1). Although preservation of
forest cover is an important long-term objective, during the first five-
years of operation investment income would be used primarily to fund the
establishment and management of a national system of protected areas and
the development of institutional capacity and human resources to manage
the system and to conserve biological diversity (Technical Appendix
paras. 3.6-3.30).
6.        The specific activities supported under the project would
include, but not be limited to:
(a) upgrading the Department of Forestry's (DOF) Wildlife Division
(WLD) to a Nature Conservation Division (NCD), providing
additional staff and training, and strengthening its capacity to
plan and manage a national protected areas system and to monitor
changes in biological diversity;
(b) establishing a national system of protected areas by identifying
areas for protection, designating different protection catego-
ries, and prioritizing protected areas for management;



3
(c) gazetting four priority protected areae and developing one
detailed management plan for a priority protected area that
would serve as a model for other areas;
(d) strengthening the management of two existing priority protected
areas (e.g., Jigme Dorji Wildlife Sanctuary and Royal Manas
National Park) among other things through the provision of
additional staff, training, inventories and research, and infra-
structure development (e.g., guard posts and mule trails); and
(e) establishing, in phases, additional protected areas such as the
Black Mountain Reserve.
The Bank reviewed a proposed program of activities to be implemented over
the first five-year period and found it to be technically and institution-
ally feasible.
7.        Prolect Cost and Financing.  Given the program nature of the
project and the need to support some of the major activities such as the
management of protected areas in perpetuity, no exact calculations can be
made of the project's costs. However, preliminary estimates suggest that
total expenditures of the biological diversity program over the next five
years will be about US$2.26 million. These would be financed from a
variety of sources including the investment income of the BTF, support
from donors (other than their contribution to BTF), and a contribution
from RGOB amounting to 10 percent of the total annual expenditures
financed by the BTF (see Technical Appendix, Table 4.2). Models of the
build-up of BTF'a investment income and annual allocations under various
assumptions (Annex 2, Technical Appendix) show that the investment income
generated from the BTF capital would adequately cover the anticipated
expenditures for a number of years. However, given the modest investment
income available to BTF, the MB has decided that no expatriates would be
paid out of BTF's resources; instead they would be financed by other
sources.
8.        Trust Fund Manaaement.  The proposed project would provide up to
US$10 million to capitalize the BTF. To ensure (a) that funds are used
for purposes consistent with GEF, (b) that BTF has adequate guidance over
the long term, and (c) that resources are adequately managed, the Bank has
reviewed the MOU, the organization and management of the MB, and UNDP'u
financial management of its own trust funds and found these arrangements
to be satisfactory. To provide leverage for raising additional resources
and avoid displacing other donor support and to ensure that the country
can implement the program adequately, funds would be disbursed in two
tranches. The first tranche of US$7.0 million would be disbursed when the
project becomes effective. The remaining US$3.0 million would be
disbursed in a second tranche when certain conditions are reached (para.
20 and Technical Appendix, Annex 3). If the conditions are not satisfied
by July 1, 1997, the project closing date, funds remaining in the Grant
Account may be cancelled upon the recommendation of the Regional Vice
President. If adequate progress is being made, a later closing date may
be established by the Bank after consultations with RGOB.



4
9.        To ensure that funds are used for the purposes intended, the
Bank would review and comment on draft annual work programs and progress
reports would be submitted annually. A mid-term review is proposed for
the end of year three and project would close when the second tranche is
released or after five years (July 1, 1997), whichever is later. A
Project Completion Report would be prepared within six months of the
closing date.
10.       Prolect Implementation.  The MOU provides for a Management Board
(MB) to oversee BTF activities. The MB's responsibilities are to:
(a) provide policy and program guidance; (b) approve the annual work
program and budget; (c) provide an estimate of annual expenditures to UNDP
to facilitate the timely release of funds; (d) appoint the Program
Coordinator (PC); and (e) review status reports prepared by the PC on the
progress of project activities and the financial situation, making any
needed adjustments. The MB would initially have five members, of which
three would represent RGOB, while WWF-US and UNDP would each have one
representative. The MB would meet at least once a year and its decisions
would require four out of five votes.
11.       A Program Coordinator (PC), appointed by the MB, will be
responsible for the day-to-day administration of the BTF; liaison with NCD
in the development of annual work programs for implementation; preparation
of project proposals for consideration and approval by MB and submission
to donors; preparation of reports to MB regarding the status of project
activities; and coordination between the MB and RGOB, donors, and the UNDP
unit responsible for investing BTF's resources. Because much of the
actual implementation will be done by the upgraded NCD, the PC would be
located in the DOF. In preparing the annual work program the PC should
ensure that it reflects the objectives and priorities of BTF, that it
takes into account the capacity of the implementing agencies, and that it
can be supported by the investment income available to BTF.
12.       The responsibility for the day-to-day implementation of project
activities will devolve largely on the DOF, principally the upgraded NCD.
Although non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and other government
agencies are eligible to apply for BTF funds, since NCD has primary
responsibility for wildlife and protected areas management in Bhutan, it
will execute most projects proposed for the first five years. In planning
an expanded protected area system, the NCD and PC will need to be
particularly sensitive to the needs of the people who live in close
proximity of these areas and depend heavily on forest resources. Close
consultation will be held with the affected communities and, when needed,
different use zones will be created to accommodate the needs of people
while also ensuring that protection programs are not threatened.
13.       Proiect Sustainability.  The long-term viability of the
biological diversity conservation program requires the creation of
institutions with a clear mandate, personnel who have the appropriate
skills, implementing agencies with equipment and working space, and
adequate financial resources for maintaining the activities after they
have been initiated. The BTF has been designed to address these points,



5
particularly the provision of recurrent finance for staff salaries and
maintenance of activities. Past and continuing donor support to Bhutan
has been directed at strengthening the institutions dealing with natural
resources management and providing training opportunities for staff both
in national institutions and overseas. Several Bhutanese nationals who
are now being trained overseas in natural resource management are expected
to join agencies which will play a major role in conservation. BTF will
play an important role in providing professionally rewarding career
opportunities within RGOB for personnel who have received training in the
natural resources field which would not have materialized without the
project.
14.       Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement.  Previous IDA
involvement in Bhutan has been very limited, with lending in sectors
relevant to this project only occurring in the Forestry Development
Project (Cr. 1460-BHU; FY84) which supports reforestation of degraded
forested areas, and the Second Forestry Development (Cr. 1900-BHU; FY88)
which focuses on pest management, controlled logging, reforestation, and
development of forest management plans. Both projects are still being
implemented and have provided IDA with useful experience in working with
the DOF, the primary implementing agency for the BTF. Although experience
suggests that the DOF could handle the demands placed on it by the BTF,
absorptive capacity is, nevertheless, a major constraint and will be
addressed in part through close coordination with existing forestry
projects and through support for training and institutional strengthening
in the first few years of the biological diversity program. Since there
is no previous Bank experience with trust funds of this kind, this experi-
ment will need to be closely monitored.
15.       Rationale for GEF Fundino.  Bhutan is felt to be the best
country in the Asia region in which to test the trust fund mechanism.
This is due to Bhutan's small size, which makes it feasible to support
biological diversity activities from the limited investment income of a
trust fund and also to RGOB's strong commitment to conservation.
The proposed project is designated as a GEF type 2 project, i.e. a project
which cannot be economically justified in the country context if the full
costs were to be borne by the country. A small population and limited
resource base limit government revenues and hence restrict RGOB's ability
to increase what is currently allocated for conservation. By assisting
Bhutan to conserve its pristine ecosystems and its unique flora and fauna,
the project would not only benefit Bhutan but also serve the broader cause
of global biological diversity conservation. GEF support would assist
Bhutan to promote a more controlled and rational use of its resources
through institutional strengthening and training; establishment of an
ecological database; establishment of a protected areas system; and
promotion of sustainable use of biological resources, all of which are
fully in accord with the GEF Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel's
(STAP) scientific and technical selection criteria. GEF support would
also help to demonstrate one way of setting up and using trust funds to
finance biological diversity conservation. If successful, the proposed
project could provide a valuable experience for designing other projects
involving trust funds.



6
Agreed Actions
16.       General Agreements.
(a)  RGOB would deposit the Global Environment Trust Fund grant
directly into the BTF account managed by UNDP, and in the
event the GET grant was used for purposes inconsistent with
GEF objectives, RGOB would return to GET its share of the
contribution to the BTF.
(b) RGOB would submit the draft annual work program to the Bank
for comments prior to approval and submit annual progress
reports.
(c) RGOB would, in concert with the three participating parties
of the GEF (e.g. World Bank, UNDP, and United Nations
Environment Programme (UNEP), conduct a mid-term review of
the project at the end of year three.
(d) For the first five years, income from the GET grant would
be used to support a program of activities consistent with
those in the Technical Appendix and agreed with BTF's
Management Board.  RGOB would ensure that any significant
deviation from the agreed program would be brought to the
attention of the Bank, and its concurrence sought for such
changes. If the program should deviate from the objectives
of the GEF, the Bank may require the refund of GET funds.
17.       Conditions of Effectiveness.  The first tranche will be released
when the Grant Agreement has been declared effective. The Agreement would
become effective when:
(a) the Program Coordinator is appointed and has taken up
his/her duties, and an office staffed with a secretary and
part-time accountant has been established for the PC in the
DOF;
(b) the upgrading of the Wildlife Division into a Nature
Conservation Division has been completed including
appointment of the Joint Director, two additional
professional staff, and one support staff; and
(c) at least US$2.0 million has been contributed by other
donors, and the MOU amended to allow vesting of BTF at
US$9.0 million (instead of US$10.0 million) and allow
drawing down of capital to no less than US$8.5 million to
cover initial operating expenses.
18.       Conditions of Disbursement of the Second Tranche.  The second
tranche would be disbursed when the Bank is satisfied that the following
conditions have been met:



7
(a) the Nature Conservation Division has a full complement of
staff at headquarters and in the field station.; the
curriculum of the Bhutan Forestry Institute is upgraded to
include more emphasis on wildlife, protected areas
management and community participation; and a biological
diversity information system within the DOF has been
developed;
(b) a revised national protected area system plan has been
adopted by RGOB;
(c) a model detailed management plan has been developed for a
new protected area;
(d) two existing protected areas, Jigme Dorji Wildlife
Sanctuary and Royal Manas National Park, have been
strengthened; and
(e) four protected areas have been officially gazetted.
For more details, see Technical Appendix, Annex 3.
19.       Environmental AsDects.  The project has a "B" classification
which means that no formal environmental assessment is required. The
project's primary objectives focus on environmental protection and should
result in stronger institutional capabilities, increased awareness of
environmental issues, and the strengthening of biological diversity
protection. Nevertheless, with limited capacity and experience in this
area, each of the activities to be funded by the BTF will be reviewed by
the National Environmental Secretariat of the Planning Commission whose
chairman is a member of the BTF Management Board.
20.       Benefits.  The principal benefit of the project is institution
building for better and sustainable environmental management. While the
benefit is considerable, it is largely non-quantifiable. By increasing
the number of trained personnel and upgrading the WLD, and establishing a
database that includes ecological parameters, the project would lead to
better protection of biological diversity and preservation of forest
cover; develop institutional capacity to design and implement conservation
and resource management projects; and supplement available resources in
order to carry out long-term planning. In the longer term, the
institutional strengthening resulting from the project would enhance
RGOB's ability to achieve a balance between the need to undertake the
commercial exploitation of its resources, for which there would
unavoidably be mounting pressure, and the need to ensure that all
development is ecologically sound and sustainable.
21.       Risks.  The project faces four risks:  (a) slower-than-expected
buildup of institutional capacity; (b) inadequate financial resources to
support an expanding program; (c) potential difficulties in working in
southern Bhutan; and (d) pressures on natural resources from population
growth and economic development. The institutional risk will be reduced



8
by the program approach under which step. are taken to assign and train
people before activities are launched. The financial situation will be
closely monitored by the MB which will ensure that only those projects
which can be sustained will be funded. If it becomes difficult to work in
southern Bhutan, the work program will be revised to substitute another
protected area for improvement. The PC will be responsible for closely
monitoring developments and for proposing needed changes to the MB and the
Bank. The population/economic development pressures are more difficult,
but through a program of public education, involving local communities in
conservation, and providing alternative sources of income, it is expected
that the risks can be kept at an acceptable level.
Attachments



9
Schedule 
TRUST FUND FOR KNiVRWfIC3NATL COUSERVATION
Ectimated Cost. and Financina Plan
Estimated Costs: a/
Local     Foreign   Total
…------…(US '000)…
Institutional Strengthening                 145         462       607
National System of Protected Areas          118          128      246
Strengthening Existing Protected Areas    341            554      895
New Protected Areas                         17           106      2Q
Total Baseline Costs                   778       1,250    2,028
Physical Contingencies            30           60       90
Price Contingencies              -AZ           95      1
Total Project Cost                     85        1 405    2,260
a/   The costs shown here represent the best estimate of possible
expenditures in the first phase of the overall biological diversity
program and are for illustration purposes only. These costs do not
represent the costs of the completed program since it is planned
that the program should continue indefinitely.
Financina Plan: _/
Local     Foreian   Total
…__----…(USs$  000)…
BTF                                           0       1,066    1,066
WWF                                           0          698      698
RGOB                                         89            0       89
UNDP/DANIDA/EEC                               0          407      407
Total                                   12       2 171    2,260
b/   This is the financing plan for the biological diversity program not
for the BTF. The BTF financing plan is shown in the Grant Summary.



10
Schedule B
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMHNTAL CONSERVATIO
Procurement Method and Diubursements
Procur_ment Method
Procurement under the project would be done in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines for procurement. UNDP'* procedures for
procurement had been reviewed and are found satisfactory to the
Bank.
Disbursement
US$7.0 million would be disbursed upon effectiveness of the Grant
Agreement and an additional US$3.0 million would be disbursed upon
the completion of monitorable benchmarks related to protected area
development.
Estimated Schedule of Disburcuwnte of GFF Grant
(USs million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
199219               122i   1996   1997
Annual                            7.0   -          -        -         30a/
Cumulative                        7.0   -          -        -        100a/
_/   The timing of the second disbursement (second tranch-) will depend
on achievement of monitorable benchmarks which could be met by
FY 95 and should be met no later than FY97. If project
implementation is not satisfactory, the second tranche would not be
disbursed.



11
Schedule C
TRUST FUND FOR KRVIRONNHNTAL CO0S1RVATION
Timetable of Key Processino Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare:                18 months
(b)  Prepared by:                          RGOB with assistance from
WWF-US, UNDP
(c)  Approved by GEF Participants:         May 1991
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure:          October 1991
(e)  Negotiations:                         May 1992
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        June 1992
(g)  List of Relevant PCRs & PPARs:        None






BHUTAN
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL APPENDIX
Table of Contento
I.  INTRODUCTION .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
II. BACKGROUND .                  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
A.  The Country Setting   ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    1
B.  Factors Effecting Environmental Management .  . . . . . . . . . .    3
C.  Policy and Institutional Framework .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
D.  Experience with Previous Lending  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    6
III. THE PROJECT .                  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
A.  Prc'ect Objectives .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
B.  Project Description   ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    8
C.  Detailed Features   ...  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    9
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
A. Cost Estimates .16
B. Financing Plan .18
C. Procurement .20
D. Disbursement .20
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .21
VI. PROJECT IMPACT AND RISKS             ..23
A.  Benefits    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  23
B. Risks.. .  ... 24
ANNEXES
1. Memorandum of Understanding .2.5...  .       .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .   .    2
2. Investment Analysis of BTF  .....  .          .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .   .    47
3. Conditions for Release of Second Tranche. . . . . . . . . . . . .   51
4. Estimated Costs of Proposed Activities  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53
MAP
1. Existing and Proposed Protected Areas (IBRD No. 23511)






BHUTAN
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL APPENDIX
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Royal Government of Bhutan (RGOB) is strongly committed to
environmental conservation. This commitment is reflected in the priority RGOB
places on protection rather than uncontrolled exploitation of its natural
resources, and its deliberate choice of slow pace of economic development
intended to safeguard the environment and culture of the country. To
strengthen its capacity to protect the environment, RGOB has requested
assistance in recent years from the World Wildlife Fund, Inc. (WWF-US), an
international non-governmental organization (NGO), the United Nations Develop-
ment Programme (UNDP), and bilaterals such as the Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA) for a number of environment projects. Although
these projects have proved beneficial to Bhutan in strengthening environmental
management, external support'for the projects will be for finite periods, and
the responsibility for sustaining such projects will fall to RGOB, whose
financial resources are severely limited and may be inadequate to maintain the
continuity or expansion of these activities.
1.2       It is against this background that RGOB in concert with UNDP and
WWF-US decided in 1989 to create the Bhutan Trust Fund for Environmental
Conservation (BTF). The BTF is intended to provide a dependable long-term
mechanism to meet the recurrent costs, and some capital costs, of an increas-
ingly varied and expanding biological diversity conservation program. After
extensive consultations among the three parties, followed by an exhaustive
review of trust fund mechanisms in various countries, the BTF was established
in March 1991. The proposed BTF would require US$20.0 million of which RGOB
has requested US$10.0 million funding from the Global Environment Trust Fund
(GET). The GET contribution would be used by RGOB to leverage matching funds
from bilateral donors, NGOs, and other agencies within the UN system. WWF-US
and the Netherlands Government have each committed US$1.0 million while
considerations is being given by bilateral donors.
1.3       Since stable recurrent cost financing has been a major constraint
to sustained protection of biological diversity in poorer developirng coun-
tries, the contribution from GET and others to the BTF would enable the
demonstration of the strengths and weaknesses of trust funds as a mechanism to
overcome this constraint while at the same time protect Bhutan's biological
diversity. The BTF could serve as a model for future trust funds elsewhere.
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Country Setting
2.1       The Kingdom of Bhutan covers an area of about 46,500 sq. km,
slightly larger than that of Switzerland. A landlocked country, Bhutan is



2
bordered in the north by the Tibetan region of China, and on the west, south
and east by States/territories of India. Bhutan stretches about 180 km from
north to south and about 330 km from west to east. Rising from an elevation
of about 160 meters above sea level in the area bordering India, it reaches
over 7,500 meters in the Himalayan Mountains bordering China. The annual
rainfall varies from less than 500 mm per annum in areas above an elevation of
4,000 meters to a range of 3,000-5,000 maters in the southern border areas.
Because of the wide range of altitudinal zones and unique micro-climatic
conditions, Bhutan contains many diverse types of ecosystems ranging from
tropical to subtropical forests in the southern lowlands to the sparse alpine
vegetation in the northern part of the country bordering Tibet. These diverse
ecosystems harbor a variety of animals and plants, some of which are found
only in Bhutan. Access to many parts of Bhutan is difficult because of the
rugged terrain and the limited infrastructure. The only means of reaching
areas not served by infrastructure is by foot and the use of pack animals.
These factors, combined with a relatively low population of some 600,000
people, resulted in Bhutan offering the last refuge for many species that have
been almost wiped out elsewhere in the Himalayan Region, e.g., Nepal and
India, due to habitat destruction caused by a rapidly expanding human popula-
tion.
2.2       The Fauna.  Bhutan's biological diversity includes some of the
world's rarest and most highly endangered animals. In the higher altitudes of
the Himalayan region, Bhutan is the home of takin (a relative of goat), blue
sheep, wolf, brown bear, Tibetan antelope, and snow leopard.  The southern
part of the country supports tropical species such as the Asiatic elephant,
greater one-horned rhinoceros, tiger, and asiatic buffalo. The golden langur,
one of the rarest species of primates in the world, is found only in Bhutan.
The area between highlands and lowlands provides habitat for the Himalayan
black bear, fox, deer, and leopard. Bhutan has some 770 bird species and is
an important home to migratory birds from the north in the winter season and
the south in the summer. Among the rare birds in Bhutan are Blyth's tragopan,
Sclater's monal pheasant, the peregrine falcon, and the black-necked crane.
Only the last has been the subject of intense study and close monitoring.
2.3       The Flora.  The variety of plants is even more rich and diverse
because of the wide range of altitudinal zones, varied climatic conditions,
and intermixing of several regional flora. The tree species range from
tropical evergreen and semi-evergreen forests in the south to temperate
forests of mixed oak and conifers, and subalpine forests of fir, spruce,
juniper, larch and birch in the north. Bhutan still retains much of its
original forests covering an estimated 55 to 60 percent of the total area. Of
the tree species, some 47 are believed to be unique to Bhutan, but this is
based on as yet limited knowledge, and the figure could be much higher. Many
trees have high timber value, some are tapped for resin, and most can be used
as firewood. Over 300 species of mostly alpine plants are used in traditional
Bhutanese medicine. There are reportedly no less than 50 rhododendron
varieties in Bhutan, about twice as many as in neighboring Nepal. Bhutan also
has an immense variety of other ornamental plants including primulas, berberis
lilies, and poppies which are highly prized overseas. Among the ornamentals,
168 have been introduced to Europe. Bhutan also has a rich variety of the



3
wild relatives of cultivar species such as strawberries, currants, cherry,
apple, and raspberry which are valuable as sources of genetic materials.
2.4       Protected Areas.  A significant amount of Bhutan's biological
diversity is protected, at least on paper. Although the present legislation
does not recognize the establishment of any specific protected areas other
than reserve forests, a number of protected areas have been declared wildlife
sanctuaries, game reserves, national parks or reserved forests by RGOB. The
total area declared amounts to 9,505 sq. km (or about 20 percent of Bhutan's
area), which is divided for management purposes into the Northern (7,834 sq.
km) and Southern (1,671 sq. km) wildlife circles.  The Northern Circle
consists of the Jigme Dorji Wildlife Sanctuary (7,823 sq. km). The Southern
Circle comprises nine areas including the Royal Manas National Park (the
biggest with an area of 463 sq. km), four other wildlife/game reserves, and
four reserved forests. While the present system of protected areas is
extensive, it is not well-balanced since it covers a high proportion of alpine
and tropical ecosystems, and none of the subalpine and temperate ecosystems.
The Forestry Master Plan Study (FMPS) financed by Asian Development Bank
(ADB)/DANIDA recommends the inclusion of two more areas--Black Mountain and
Thrumshingla reserves--to improve ecosystem representation within the present
protected areas system. It also recommends that some parts of the Jigme Dorji
Wildlife Sanctuary which are not threatened because of inaccessibility or
climate be simply left alone without any management plan, and at the same
time, redirect limited resources towards the better management of those areas
of Jigme Dorji where the interaction of people and the environment is rela-
tively more intense and continuous. The FMPS outlines a comprehensive program
to strengthen conservation in Bhutan which includes establishment of protec-
tion forests; establishment of wildlife reserves, sanctuaries and national
parks; protection of endangered species; a program for ex-situ conservation;
staff training; conservation-oriented research; wildlife inventory and
monitoring; public education programs; helping people living adjacent to
reserves and in critical watersheds; and development of tourism. The proposed
project will assist RGOB in undertaking many of the activities which will form
part of this program.
B. Factors Affecting Environmental Management
2.5       Conservation Ethic.  Bhutan is a predominantly Buddhist country.
Buddhism emphasizes spiritual values besides material well-being, and also
respect for long-standing traditions and beliefs. Among these is the unique
respect for life in all its forms--human, animal and plant. Many Bhutanese
refuse to kill animals, and this combined with other religious and social
values has resulted in a widely shared concern for conserving the country's
natural environment to serve the needs not only of the present but also future
generations. The conservation ethic which is inherent in the Buddhist faith
has been reinforced by the government's strictures against over-exploitation
of natural resources stemming in part from lessons of experience from neigh-
boring countries. Despite the high utilization of wood, in part because of
the cold climate in the higher elevations and also the lack of other alterna-
tive energy sources, Bhutan also has the highest forest area per capita, a
situation which is now beginning to change.



4
2.6       Emerging Environmental Concerns. Although the overall situation in
Bhutan with regard to the preservation of the natural environment is vastly
better than in most countries at a comparable stage of development, there are
some indications that it could worsen in the coming years. The two principal
factors in this regard are first, the impact of a growing population on a
severely restricted natural resource base, particularly of cultivable land;
and second, the unavoidable consequences of efforts to broaden and modernize
the economy. Although the population of Bhutan is still small, it is estimat-
ed to be growing at 2.5 percent per annum, a rate which could become higher
with improvements in health services and a consequent reduction in maternal
and child mortality and higher life expectancy. This level of population
growth is a cause for concern due primarily to the critical shortage of
agricultural land (only about 8 to 10 percent of the total area) and to the
consequent threat that marginal land, including areas under forest cover,
could be opened up for crop production to meet the needs of an expanding
population. As the population grows, forest resources--firewood, building
material, non-wood materials such as resin and medicinal plants and grazing
areas--will be subject to increasing pressure. In addition, the pressure to
open up new areas to support a broader range of activities such as mining and
manufacturing is expected to involve an expansion of the road network in
geologically fragile and unstable areas with the attendant risk of erosion and
encroachment.
2.7       There are already some signs that Bhutan's forests and associated
biological diversity are increasingly becoming vulnerable because of popula-
tion pressure, poor land management, and in some cases, illegal hunting and
poaching. A shortening of the cycle of shifting cultivation because of the
lack of alternative land, overgrazing by domestic cattle and consequent
denudation of forest areas particularly in the vicinity of human habitation,
and clearing of forests to open up new areas for cultivation are all signs of
growing pressures on marginal lands. Organized poaching is posing some danger
to wildlife particularly in the south, while the unauthorized felling and
removal of valuable trees--both for lumber and medicinal/cosmetic uses--has
increased. These factors are posing a threat which, while being small and
manageable at present, constitutes potentially a far more serious problem for
Bhutan's natural environment, particularly its unique biological diversity.
C. Policy and Institutional Framework
2.8       Environmental Policies.  The utilization of forest resources is
regulated by legislation which includes the Bhutan Forest Act of 1969,
National Forest Policy Act of 1974, draft Forest Act of 1985, the charter
establishing the Bhutan Logging Corporation of 1984, and the comprehensive
Forest Policy Statement of 1991 and the draft Bhutan Forest Act of 1991, which
is awaiting approval by the National Assembly. Although RGOB is strongly
committed to environmental conservation, it also emphasizes the need for
economic development as a means of improving the living standard of its
population. Therefore, its approach is to achieve a proper balance between
conservation and development in order to promote development which is sustain-
able. In the event of a conflict, however, RGOB intends to give protection of
natural resources priority over exploitation.



5
2.9       The conservation concept runs through all aspects of Bhutan's
development strategy. For example, while recognizing the rights of people to
extract forest products such as firewood, building material, resin or medici-
nal plants, and also to graze their cattle, RGOB has stringent rules governing
their access to forest products to prevent uncontrolled exploitation. The
lawful cutting of trees is limited to those selected and marked by forestry
staff. RGOB has launched social and community forestry activities aimed at
involving people in producing and managing forest resources for their legiti-
mate needs; however, RGOB also has regulations which restrict grazing in
critical watersheds and protected forests, ban logging on steep slopes, and
restrict the conversion of forest lands to other uses. An extensive system of
protected areas has been established (see para. 2.4), and a ban has been
imposed on the killing of all wildlife with the exception of the wild boar
which is regarded as a pest and a threat to crops. The destruction of
wildlife carries a penalty which is higher in the case of rarer species or
those under threat of extinction. While illegal activities such as poaching
or unauthorized felling of trees has not been totally eliminated, the Govern-
ment's commitment to conservation combined with the religious beliefs and
generally responsible behavior of the people have produced a strong conserva-
tion ethic in the country.
2.10      Forest PoliCY.  In 1974, RGOB directed that 60 percent of the
country's land area should remain under forest cover. RGOB remains committed
to this policy, although a recent estimate (from FMPS) suggests that the
forest area may be just under 57 percent of the land area. A proposed survey
to be completed by RGOB during the next two years using the latest technology
will firm up the estimates of actual forest area. Following this, RGOB
proposes to maintain the forest area at that current level and, should the
area decrease by 2 percent or more, it would take measures such as refo-
restation to restore it. RGOB has also declared 20 percent of the country's
area as "protected areas" which is intended to protect representative samples
of Bhutan's biological diversity. Consideration is being given to enhancing
the protected areas from 20 percent to between 25 to 30 percent of the
country's area, which is feasible in a country with highly mountainous terrain
much of which is expected to remain inaccessible.
2.11      Although forests constitute one of the two major exploitable
resources of Bhutan (the other being hydropower) and hence are vital for the
country's development, RGOB has adopted a highly conservative approach to
forest resource utilization. Since felling by private commercial operators
was leading to overexploitation, particularly in the absence of good manage-
ment plans, the Department of Forestry (DOF) was given the responsibility for
all commercial felling and subsequent sales of logs to sawmills and other
users of timber, and also for export. In 1984, RGOB established the Bhutan
Logging Corporation (BLC), a public sector company to take over all logging
and related activities from DOF, and administer these in accordance with
commercial criteria subject to the overriding principle of good and sustain-
able management of the resources. As a result of BLC's more disciplined
approach to logging, the volume of felled timber actually decreased in the
early years of its operation, and there has been much greater selectivity in
the areas chosen for logging by comparison with the situation before BLC was
established. In addition, forest management plans are now a condition for



6
commercial logging. Further changes are forthcoming particularly in light of
recent government policy to decentralize responsibility and privatize commer-
cial entities.
2.12      Institutional Arranaements.  In the past, the responsibility for
environmental management rested with the sectoral ministries. This arrange-
ment is not expected to change in the near future even though a National
Environmental Secretariat (NES) was established in 1990 under the National
Planning Commission with assistance from DANIDA. The main task of NES at
present is the formulation of a National Environmental Strategy. While the
NES is an advisory body with no line responsibilities, it is intended to be a
watchdog. It is charged with the task of prescribing safeguards aimed at
eliminating or reducing to acceptable levels the potentially adverse environ-
mental effects of any proposed project, and it will eventually provide an
environmental clearance for investment projects. However, the staff and other
resources of NES need to be strengthened considerably before it can be
expected to fulfill its intended mandate.
2.13      Many of the activities to protect biological diversity will be
implemented by the DOF, particularly its Wildlife Division (WLD). The DOF was
established in 1959 to (a) manage the country's forests; (b) regulate access
to, and utilization and protection of, the forest resources; and (c) enforce
restrictions and collect taxes and dues. It is also responsible for land
preparation and reafforestation, pest management and wildlife protection.
In 1980, DOF was entrusted with the responsibility for logging because of a
growing concern about over-exploitation, but this function was transferred to
BLC in 1984. DOF is responsible for the sustainable management of forest
resources in line with the principle that conservation has higher priority
over commercial exploitation. In 1990, the staff of DOF comprised 25 upper-
level staff (graduates or diplomates), 60 forest rangers, 167 foresters and
455 forest/wildlife guards. The proposed Bhutan Forest Act of 1991 gives the
DOF a wide range of responsibilities. Specifically, the mandate to have
detailed management plans for critical watersheds, protected areas as well as
production forests will necessitate both addition of new qualified staff and
provision of training opportunities for existing staff.
2.14      The WLD is responsible for the protection of wildlife and the
establishment of protected forests and reserves. Its present jurisdiction
covers about 9,500 sq. km of protected area, but this is being managed by a
staff of only 57, comprising a Deputy Director, eight forest rangers, nine
foresters and 39 guards. With an expanded mandate, the Division's capacity
also needs to be considerably augmented to permit it to undertake more varied
responsibilities in a wider geographical area. Staff will also need to
acquire skills permitting them to work with local communities to ensure that
local needs are taken into consideration as part of management planning.
D. Experience with Previous Lendina
2.15      The Bank has not provided any assistance to Bhutan directly
focussed on environmental management. However, it is supporting two projects
in the forestry sector, Forestry Development Project (Cr. 1460-BHU; FY84) and
Second Forestry Development (Cr. 1900-BHU; FY88), both of which are still



7
being implemented and will have some indirect benefits for the environment,
particularly with regard to institution building.1 The principal objective
of Cr. 1460 is to support the development of locally-based wood industries
through the clearfelling and extraction of merchantable timber from 3,800 ha
of degraded forest, and establishing 2,800 ha of plantations on clearfelled
land. Further, by developing the institutional capability of the DOF, the
project aims to facilitate improved management of the forest resources through
reforestation programs, as well as by exercising effective control over
hitherto largely uncontrolled exploitation of natural forests for fuelwood,
timber, grazing and, in some case., for agriculture. The Second Forestry
Project provides continued support for institution building. Although its
principal focus initially was on controlling an epidemic pest outbreak in
coniferous forest areas in western Bhutan by a bark beetle management program,
it also supports logging, road building and reforestation under the auspices
of the DOF and BLC.
2.16      The first Forestry Development Project has strengthened the capaci-
ty of the DOF for undertaking reforestation of degraded areas, and the closing
date has been extended to allow the DOF to increase the reforested area beyond
the original plan. The Second Forestry Project has been successful in
controlling the bark beetle damage, salvaging the affected timber, and
establishing new plantations in the affected areas. It has taken on, as
additional responsibility, assisting in the preparation of forest management
plans in the western region of the country. While much needs to be done to
strengthen the DOF and other concerned agencies, an important beginning has
been made in the context of the two ongoing projects as well as others being
supported by other bilateral and multilateral donors to enhance their techni-
cal capability and development orientation for natural resource management.
2.17      There has been no post-evaluation because both the projects are
still being implemented. However, the institution building provisions of the
two projects are of considerable relevance for the proposed project since DOF
will be the principal implementing agency for most components. Also, in light
of the experience gained from the ongoing projects, a stronger effort would be
initiated under the proposed project to ensure that the protection of forest
resources takes into account the legitimate needs of the people for forest
products. For example, the demarcation of protected areas would be based on
the closest possible consultation with the affected population. The final
outcome would be based on a system of decentralized authority for decision
making which is being promoted by RGOB.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
3.1       The project has two main objectives.  The first is to assist RGOB
to undertake a comprehensive nation-wide program for the conservation of the
country's rich and diverse biological resources taking into account the
growing pressure on these resources from human and animal population, and also
1/   A third forestry project is currently being appraised.



8
the rising demands of economic development. The significance of conserving
Bhutan's biological diversity transcends national boundaries because of the
unique nature of the resources and also the fact that Bhutan offers the last
hope among the Himalayan region countries of preserving these resources for
posterity. The project's second objective is to test the feasibility of trust
funds as a mechanism for providing long-term and sustainable support for
conservation. Since the proposed funding mechanism (see para. 3.2) is without
precedent, it would have the advantage, if successful, of serving as a
replicable model for operations in other countries where dependable long-term
funding is critical for the success of the projects concerned.
B. Project Description
3.2       Trust Fund Mechanism.  According to the Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) signed in March 1991 between RGOB, UNDP, and WWF-US, the BTF is to be
governed by a Management Board (MB) consisting of three senior officials of
RGOB and one member each from the UNDP and WWF-US (for more details on MOU,
see Annex 1). UNDP's Trust Fund Department in New York would administer the
fund according to UNDP rules and regulations. Income earned on the principal
would be used to finance biological diversity conservation activities, both
capital investment and recurrent costs. A Program Coordinator (PC) would be
responsible for the day-to-day administration of project activities including
preparing a list of project proposals for consideration by the MB, and
liaising between the Board, RGOB, UNDP, and other donors. The PC would
receive technical support from WWF-US and a Board of Advisors comprising
suitably qualified technical specialists.
3.3       At present, the MOU requires a minimum of US$10.0 million to
activate the BTF. The GET would initially contribute US$7.0 million after
other donors contribute at least US$3.0 million. However, to date, RGOB has
received donor commitments of US$2.0 million. In the interest of vesting the
BTF and to commence project activities as soon as possible, it was agreed that
the BTF MOU would be amended to allow vesting at US$9.0 million and drawing
down of capital to no less than US$8.5 million to cover initial program
operating expenses. The balance of US$3.0 million from GET would be disbursed
when certain conditions have been met at between three to five years (see
Annex 3 for details of the conditions). A two-tranche system creates pressure
for rapid start-up, helps ensure that funds are used for the purposes intend-
ed, tests institutional arrangements, and avoids the overcommitment of GET
resources if project objectives cannot be achieved in a timely fashion.
3.4       The MB intends to maintain the principal of the BTF in real terms
in order to assure a sustainable flow of resources. To avoid large fluctua-
tions in the revenues available from year to year, the MB is prepared to draw
down principal over US$10.0 million, if necessary, but it would avoid reducing
the principal below US$10.0 million in nominal terms. With an initial
principal of US$10.0 million, at current interest and inflation rates, this
would generate (after returning part of the income to maintain the real value
of the capital) a revenue stream in the increasing order of US$292,000-305,000
during the first five years, and US$386,000-390,000 for the next 25 years,
after the BTF is replenished in year 5 with US$3.0 million from the GET. This
is sufficient to initiate new projects and begin institution building (see



9
Annex 2). However, given the modest resources available, expatriates emolu-
ments would not be paid out of BTF's resources. Rather bilaterals and WWF-US
would be requested to finance the necessary expatriate inputs. It was agreed
that arrangements will be made with other donors for the recruitment of
expatriate consultants to undertake the inventories and surveys needed for the
establishment of a national system of protected areas by December 31, 1992.
3.5       First Five-Year Proaram (US$2.26 million).  Since the MB determines
BTF's direction and approves the annual work program for BTF funding, it is
only possible at this time to provide an illustration of a five-year biologi-
cal diversity work program. The MB is bound by the MOU which includes a
description of the types of activities eligible for BTF funding. The Bank
reviewed the MOU and found it to be consistent with objectives of the Global
Environment Facility (GEF). The MB has indicated that during the first five
years much of the emphasis would be on the following activities, which are
also consistent with RGOB's Seventh Five-Year Plan and the draft FMPS.
(a) Developing human resources and institutional capacity;
(b) Establishing a national system of protected areas;
(c) Strengthening the management of two existing protected areas--Jigme
Dorji and Royal Manas; and
(d) Developing a model management plan for a new protected area.
Although the project is expected to continue for many years, the Bank will
remain involved only for the first five years or until the second tranche is
released, whichever comes later. The project completion date is expected to
be about July 1, 1997. If the BTF work program is deemed inconsistent with
GEF objectives by the Bank during supervision and annual consultations with
RGOB, then RGOB would be asked to return the GET contribution to the Bank.
C. Detailed Features
Institutional Strenathening and Human Resource Development (US$670,000)
3.6       Uoaradina of Wildlife Division of DOF.  The WLD is nominally
responsible for all conservation related activities in Bhutan. The responsi-
bilities stemming from this mandate are so large, varied, and complex that
they vastly exceed WLD's present capabilities and its meager staff resources
and budget. Of the ten areas designated as protected areas by RGOB, only one
has reasonably satisfactory management in the field, two have skeletal
management, while the others have none. Furthermore, there is, at present, no
clear division of labor between the staff of the Northern and Southern
Wildlife Circles and the District Forest Officers (DFOs) who play a major role
in the field management of protected areas.
3.7       In order to improve the organizational structure and strengthen the
Division, the DOF will reorganize and upgrade the existing WLD into a Nature
Conservation Division (NCD), to be headed by a senior official at the Joint
Director level. The head of NCD will be responsible for coordinating all the
activities of the DOF relating to conservation and protected area management,
including those of the Territorial/Zonal Divisions of the DOF which have



10
hitherto not been accountable to the WLD. The new NCD, as envisioned, would
initially have two units in its headquarters at Thimphu--an Inventory and
Management Planning Unit headed by an ecologist and an Extension Education
Unit headed by a ranger/warden. Both units will have a complement of staff.
Each of the protected areas would be headed by a Deputy Director, a profes-
sional forester who would have received further training in wildlife and parks
management or a graduate of Sherubtse College (the only institution of higher
learning in Bhutan) who has spent at least two years with NCD and received
further training. These Deputy Directors would be assisted by NCD in plan-
ning, inventories, and extension education, and also through core support.
The build-up of NCD's staff will be gradual with an initial increase of four
additional professional staff and two support staff at headquarters and
designation of Deputy Directors as well as field staff for Jigme Dorji, Royal
Manas, and Black Mountain reserves. Subsequently, when RGOB designates new
areas, more staff will have to be recruited. When this is accomplished
sometime between years three and five, NCD staff will total about 127, an
increase from the present total of 53.
3.8       Trainina.  At present, most staff of the DOF are trained at the
Bhutan Forestry Institute (EFI). Although BFI's training is deemed adequate
for forest management, it needs improvement in the areas of wildlife and
protected areas management and community participation. In order to serve the
needs of a more comprehensive and expanding program, it is important to
provide the concerned agencies with properly trained staff in adequate
numbers. The training component includes support to BFI to revise its
curriculum to incorporate subjects such as wildlife conservation, protected
areas management, and community relations into its curriculum. While BFI only
trains forest guards (with the newly established Natural Resources Training
Institute providing training to forest rangers), support will be given to BFI
to provide short refresher courses on specific technical subjects such as park
management, ecology, wildlife, silviculture, extension, buffer zone manage-
ment, and survey and inventory methodologies to higher level staff such as
Deputy Directors, DFO, and foresters.
3.9       In order to enable BFI staff to undertake the training noted above,
it is also necessary to provide pedagogic training to the trainers themselves
given their background as rangers and not teachers. Such training will
include technical subjects as well as speaking and presentational skills, and
the use of teaching aids, including video equipment. Funds will also be
available for BFI faculty to attend technical short courses, seminars and
workshops relating to conservation and park management where they will be
exposed to specialists in these fields. These opportunities are also expected
to encourage the BFI faculty to consider teaching as a long-term career rather
than as a break from duties as foresters.
3.10      While most of the training will be provided in-country, there will
be a need to depute some personnel for training within the Asia region e.g.
India or Nepal, or overseas. The cost of this training may be funded from BTF
as well as other sources such as UNDP or DANIDA. The Joint Director of NCD
will play an important role in the selection of the venue for training as well
as it. specifics so that such training is fully consistent with the need of
the national conservation program.



11
3.11      Bioloaical Diversity Assessment and Monitorin .  As part of the
effort to strengthen the capacity to manage protected areas, DOF will expand
its data collection, storage, and monitoring capability to include biological
diversity parameters. Data will be collected on the flora and fauna, relevant
ecological indicators, and socio-economic conditions. After the data is
collected and processed, it will be interpreted and presented in a format
which decision-makers and planners can readily use. All data will be entered
into an existing national data base housed within the Forest Management
Division (FMD) of DOF. Data processing will include digitizing the relevant
maps and the application of Geographic Information System (GIS). The GIS will
facilitate the assessment of biological resources for purposes of selecting
protected areas and it will permit monitoring and evaluation of the use of
natural resources including monitoring the status of protected areas, forest
reserves, water catchments, endangered and rare species and habitat types, and
to ensure that conservation planning fully reflects national priorities and
pays adequate attention to competing claims for resource utilization.
3.12      The project will assist the upgrading and updating of the DOF data
base by supporting the salary of one full-time staff to be seconded from WLD.
Short-term training will be provided to two existing staff of FMD and the
additional staff will be trained for one year in photo interpretation and GIS
database development overseas. Additional equipment including computers,
digitizers, scanners and related software will also be provided selectively
based on an evaluation of the availability of the DOF's staff for this
purpose. It is anticipated that up to 80 percent of the map digitization
needed for GIS will be done on contract.
Establishment of a National System of Protected Areas (US$290,000).
3.13      Although Bhutan has declared 20 percent of its area to be national
parks, wildlife sanctuaries, and forest reserves, these areas were selected
based on the most rudimentary information and hence are not fully representa-
tive of all important biogeographic units, the most important omission being
the montane forests of the inner Himalayas in central Bhutan. In addition,
the draft FMPS has recommended the expansion of the protected areas system to
25 to 30 percent of the total area in order the address the gaps in coverage.
However, this proposal needs to be verified based on the most up-to-date
scientifically-based information. Consequently, in year one and along with
activities to increase its capacity to plan and manage biological diversity,
the WLD will conduct a thorough review of the existing protected areas. The
end result will be a national protected areas system plan which will serve as
a blueprint to guide RGOB's future programming and priorities in biological
diversity conservation.
3.14      The first step is to collect and consolidate baseline information
followed by mapping of the overall protected areas system. Using 1:50,000
scale maps, the distribution of the protected areas will be located and
documented on the basis of aerial photographs, satellite imagery and ground
surveys which illustrate physiography, land use, forest cover, habitat types,
encroachments and potential danger points for endangered flora and fauna.
Overlays indicating vegetation type, habitat type and other ecological
parameters will be prepared so that the system is fully representative of the



12
country's biological diversity. It is expected that the current protected
area system will undergo major revision to serve the purpose both of increas-
ing the area making it more representative of the country's biodiversity. The
BTF will provide support to carry out the inventories including field training
on biological and socio-economic survey and inventory methodologies, purchase
of field equipments, and preparation of baseline maps. Although the use of
outside specialists would be necessary, their costs will be borne by bilate-
rals or WWF-US.
3.15      The next step is for formal recognition of the network of protected
areas by the National Assembly. To do so requires the establishment of
categories of protection (using International Union for the Conservation of
Natural Resources (IUCN) protected areas categories) and procedures for
official gazettement and approval by the National Assembly. Since gazettement
and management of all protected areas will be an ongoing but intermittent
process, it is proposed that during the initial five-year period, attention be
focused on four priority areas. Therefore, BTF will support activities
necessary for official gazettement of these four areas such as demarcating
boundaries on-the-ground, drafting of legislation, and developing preliminary
operational plans for each area.
3.16      Also, as part of the three-year planning activity, the WLD will
undertake the preparation of one detailed management plan which will yield
valuable experience for preparing plans for other gazetted areas, and even-
tually for all protected areas. In line with the procedure established for
gazettement, management planning is an ongoing process involving the closest
possible consultation with the local communities and governmental officials to
ensure that biological diversity conservation programs are well balanced with
the legitimate needs of the people. BTF will provide support for collecting
more detailed socio-economic and biophysical data as well as for holding
consultation meetings and workshops.
Management of Two Existing Protected Areas (US$960,000).
3.17      As noted earlier, due to resource constraints, only three of ten
existing reserves have any field management. Two of the three current
protected areas--Royal Manas and Jigme DorJi--have been identified as priori-
ties for intensive management, and hence efforts to improve their management
will begin in year one.
3.18      Royal Manas National Park.  The Royal Manas National Park was
declared a wildlife sanctuary in 1966 then designated a national park in 1987.
Manas has a variety of habitats, from open savannah woodland to moist ever-
green forest. It is known to have a wide variety of fauna and flora.
The latter include some exotic orchids and the very rare and valuable agar
wood.  Previous funding from WWF-US has enabled the DOF to train park person-
nel, purchase communications equipment, construct guard posts, survey the park
21   If current social conflict in southern Bhutan worsens, then it might be
necessary to substitute another protected area for strengthening instead of
Royal Manas National Park.



13
and demarcate boundaries, build patrol roads and trails and, in general, to
make a good beginning in park management.
3.19      Although much of the ecosystem of Royal Manas remains undisturbed,
it is beginning to face two potentially very serious problems because of the
presence of human population and domestic animals in the periphery of the
park. The first is the encroachment of park areas by humans in search of
forest products as well as land for crop production (and by their animals for
grazing). The second is the incursion of wild animals into areas inhabited by
humans resulting in the loss of crops as well as domestic animals. Royal
Manas represents in microcosm the type of problems which could appear in
protected areas in general in Bhutan and which should therefore be dealt with
promptly through well-conceived management plans based on the fullest consul-
tation with the communities which directly experience the impact of conserva-
tion programs.
3.20      The BTF will support a wide range of activities which are aimed at
facilitating a better understanding of the variety, location, and quantity of
the biological resources and their habitats which need to be conserved and
protected, and resolving any conflicts which such action might entail with
people living in and around the park. A demonstration project will be
established in one community adjacent to the park which, if successful, will
be replicated in other parts of Royal Manas. A major emphasis of the demon-
stration would be the creation of buffer zones between park boundaries and
areas of human habitation. In those areas where there are repeated incursions
by wild animals leading to losses, electric fencing may be provided. Com-
munity reforestation programs involving valuable tree species will be initia-
ted. Study tours will be conducted within the park for villagers and com-
munity elders to promote an understanding on their part of the importance of
conservation and how this could be achieved while fully safeguarding the
legitimate interests of the people. The introduction into farming systems of
crops or activities which are less prone to damage by wildlife e.g. orchards,
poultry, fish farming, medicinal or aromatic plants, will also be undertaken.
3.21      Along with the expatriates (to be funded through other sources),
Bhutanese nationals would be recruited and funded by the BTF to undertake
ecological and sociological surveys of Manas. Park infrastructure such as
guard posts, patrol trails, water holes for wildlife and field equipment will
also be provided. Park staff who will be trained at BFI will undertake
extension education in the villages surrounding Manas. With the availability
of more detailed biogeographic information from surveys, an increase in the
number of trained staff and the provision of better equipment and of funds to
develop and maintain the infrastructure, there should be a vast improvement in
the management of the Manas National Park. The launching of a simultaneous
effort to promote community participation in Royal Manas activities should
have the effect not only of securing the future of conservation but also of
demonstrating that sustainable conservation can co-exist with activities to
protect the interests of people in the vicinity of Royal Manas.
3.22      Jiame Dorii Wildlife Sanctuary.  The area covered by this sanctuary
is among the best remaining mountain ecosystems in the entire Himalayan
region. It was declared a wildlife sanctuary in 1974, and is home to the



14
takin, Bhutan's national animal which is found only in Bhutan. Many of the
valleys of the sanctuary include pristine forests unrivalled elsewhere in the
Himalayas. Although much of Jigme Dorji enjoys natural protection because of
lack of easy access, there are a number of conservation issues pertaining to
Jigme Dorji which need to be resolved before it can be properly managed.
These are (a) lack of precise information about human population, domestic
animals and wildlife within the sanctuary, patterns of land use by the above,
and potential conflicts between agricultural/animal husbandry practices and
conservation; (b) wildlife habitat degradation/destruction resulting from
burning of forests and scrublands, overgrazing by livestock, and increasing
competition for forage between livestock and ungulates; (c) lack of systematic
surveys, inventories, and studies of the fauna and flora, especially of the
threatened species; (d) inadequate demarcation of the boundaries of the
sanctuary, including identification of critical habitats requiring protection;
(e) lack of suitable conservation education/information programs for people
living within or adjacent to the sanctuary; and (f) lack of adequate trained
staff, equipment and infrastructure to carry out surveys and studies, and to
manage the resources on a sustainable basis.
3.23      Unlike Royal Manas, which has a reasonable complement of staff,
Jigme Dorji has only a skeletal staff. However, given that the vast area of
Jigme Dorji is under no immediate threat, activities will be confined to parts
that are more vulnerable such as northwestern Bhutan in the Chomolhari,
Lingshi and Gasa/Laya areas. The work program will include ecological and
socio-economic surveys including the training of Bhutanese nationals in survey
techniques and methodology, development of management posts at strategic
locations, basic infrastructure, and conservation education and awareness
programs for people aimed at minimizing and eventually eliminating conflicts
between people/livestock and wildlife.
3.24      In phasing the management of selected areas of Jigme Dorji, the
timely recruitment and deployment of adequate numbers of trained staff is
likely to be the most critical factor. The core staff who need to be recrui-
ted during the first three years are a DFO, at least two rangers, four beat
officers and ten guards; all of these staff will be posted in the field. A
natural resources management specialist who is being trained overseas will
return to Bhutan at the end of year two and will assume responsibility for the
sanctuary. A total of 15 newly-recruited staff will be trained during years
one to three, and an assessment will be made by the end of year three of
staffing needs for the next phase. The planned operations at Jigme Dorji will
also benefit a Nature Study Center which is being established in Jigme Dorji
with assistance from WWF-US.
3.25      The project will provide support for staff training and salaries,
vehicles, survey and field equipment, infrastructure including trails, beat
offices, and an upgraded field office for the Gasa, Laya and Lurana regions,
and educational material intended to strengthen community support for conser-
vation. In addition, a demonstration project is proposed (similar to Royal
Manas) that will integrate people with the conservation program and to ensure
that protected area management not only recognizes the needs of the affected
people, but also has their full cooperation for sustaining it in the long run.



15
Development of a New Protected Area (Black Mountain) (US$340,000).
3.26      During the project's first three years, the staff of the DOF will
acquire considerable experience in conducting surveys, acquiring, analyzing,
and interpreting baseline data relevant to biodiversity monitoring, and
managing protected areas. Although the initial focus will be on the improved
management of two existing reserves, i.e., Royal Manas and Jigme Dorji, it is
RGOB's intention to develop management plans for all protected areas over a
number of years, subject to the availability of funds. As already noted,
since the areas now declared as protected do not include any part of the
central montane ecological zone, it is highly likely that the proposal to
designate Black Mountain area as protected will be approved by RGOB. Black
Mountain not only harbors a wide range of tree species representative of the
subtropical, temperate, subalpine and alpine forests, and an enormous variety
of wildlife and birds (including the famous endangered black crane), but it
also provides a corridor linking the south to the north. Therefore, it is
important that Black Mountain become operational soon thereafter designation.
The plan thus far is to use Black Mountain as the Site for developing the
model detailed management plan (as proposed in para. 3.18).
3.27      There are several important conservation issues in the Black
Mountain area which need to be resolved before a management plan can be
implemented. As in Royal Manas and Jigme Dorji, there is a conflict in land
use as between people/livestock on the one hand and wildlife on the other.
Competing land use is a particularly difficult problem since it involves rival
claims for grazing areas between livestock and wild ungulates such as tapir.
Accurate information on wildlife and silvapastoral resources and usage is
lacking, and this is aggravated by the lack of detailed topographical maps
which are needed to identify critical habitats of species being studied and
also the priority areas which need to be protected and managed.
3.28      If RGOB decides to implement the management plan for the Black
Mountain area in phase two of the program (starting about year five), prepara-
tory efforts to develop the management plan should begin early in year three
and be completed in twelve months. These will initially include, as in the
case of Jigme Dorji, ecological and sociological surveys, inventories,
assessment of conflicts in land use, particularly in relation to Tsheri or
shifting cultivation, close consultation with the communities who will be
directly affected by the program, and the launching of conservation education
and extension programs. The last named activity will promote a better
understanding of the objectives of conservation among the people and seek
their views on how any potential disruptive effect of marking off large tracts
of land as sanctuaries can be minimized. The cost of education/extension
programs is included as part of the component on establishment of a national
system of protected areas (paras. 3.15-3.18).



16
3.29      After the detailed management plan has been completed and the area
demarcated and legally gazetted, staff recruitment and training will commence
along with construction of infrastructure including conservation centers,
guard posts, trails, camping sites, and acquisition of supplies and equipment.
At the same time, the consultation process with the local communities will be
finalized, including reaching consensus on the creation of zones between areas
of conservation and human habitation.
3.30      The project will support the cost of surveys and studies, including
any additional equipment, staff salaries, training (both in country and
abroad), vehicles, communications equipment and infrastructure. It is
expected that the management plan will be fully effective within two years of
launching.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.1       Backaround. The conservation program to be supported by GEF under
the proposed project, which is the initial phase of that program, does not
have a specific time frame, since it is the RGOB's intention to sustain it
indefinitely. Some parts of the program have already been initiated with
support from other donors. The funding arrangement is likewise intended to
ensure that the project activities are supported by a sustainable and predict-
able stream of income which is generated by investing the resources of BTF.
The major proportion of the project's expenditures will be incurred on the
recurrent costs (mainly staff salaries and operating expenses) of managing
protected areas which will steadily increase during the first two decades of
the program and have therefore to be supported on a continuing basis. Since a
program of this scale cannot be supported in a dependable manner by RGOB'u
regular annual budget, UNDP will undertake to invest the BTF fund on behalf of
the MB and in accordance with procedures which will ensure both that the real
value of BTF's capital will be maintained and that it continue to yield an
income which will be used in part to meet the projected expenditures of



17
activities launched during the initial phase. Table 4.1 shows anticipated
revenues and expenditures in years one to five.
TABLE 4.1 BTF Revenue Flow for Years 1 to 5
1          2         3           4        5
Fiscal Year             1993       1994      1995       1996      1997
(in thousands of 1993 US Dollars)
BTF Capital                 10,000     10,042    10,319    10,384    13,126
(Beginning of year)
Investment Income                0        292       301        302       305
(real rate of return
of @3%)
Funds Available for            2511/      292       301        302       305
Program
Fixed Charges                   71         72         70        70        71
(Office equipment &
management & service
fee)                    _ _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _
RGOB Contribution               20         23          19       18        22
Total Available for            200        243        250       250       256
Program
Program Expenditures           200        225        185       175       215
(funded by BTF)
i/ Due to lag period between when BTF is vested and when investment becomes
available, draw-down of capital will be permitted to cover operating
expenses.
4.2       Proiect Costs.  Since neither the project activities nor the
utilization of funds provided by GET have a terminal date, the purpose of
project costs are presented to illustrate likely patterns of income and
expenditure during an initial phase assumed (for presentational purposes) to
be five years. The funding mechanism will ensure that activities launched in
the initial phase can be supported in the foreseeable future, but the subse-
quent expansion of the program can only be sustained through periodic reple-
nishment of the BTF's capital or by arrangements to transfer responsibility
for funding discrete activities to other financing sources. If neither of
these alternatives is feasible, the expansion of the program would be alower.



18
4.3       The activities which will form part of the initial program to be imple-
mented over a five-year period and their related costs are shown in Table 4.2 below,
and details are provided in Annex 4.
Table 4.2: Project Cost Summary
(Nu '000)                                  (USS '000)
Project Component  Local    Foreian       Total     Local   Foreian  Total   as %
base
cost
Institutional       3,733      11,897      15,630             462                  30
Strengthening                                       145              607
National Sys-       3,039       3,296       6,335             128                  12
tem of                                              118              246
Protected
Areas
Strengthening       8,755      14,266      23,046             554                  44
Existing                                            340              895
Protected
Areas
Establishment       4,481       2,729       7,210             106                  14
of New                                              174              280
Protected
Areas
TOTAL BASELINE     20,033      32,188      52,221           1,250
COST                                                778              2,028    100.0
Physical               773      1,545       2,318              60
Contingencies                                       30               90
Price               1,210       2,446       3,657              95
Contingencies                                       47               142
TOTAL PROJECT      22,016      36,179      58,195           1,405
COST                                                855              2,260



19
B. Financing Plan
4.4       The project's financing plan covers the first phase of the conservation
program, which for purposes of illustration covers the first five years.
The project's activities would be financed from the investment income of BTF. GET
will contribute US$10.0 million to BTF in two tranches; the first GEF tranche will
amount to US$7.0 million. Firm assurances have already been obtained from the WWF-
US and Netherlands Government that they would contribute US$1.0 million each to BTF.
A total of US$9.0 million would be sufficient to vest the BTF. The MOU, which
originally stipulated a minimum of US$10.0 million for vesting the BTF, would be
amended, as a condition of effectiveness, to permit vesting at the lesser amount.The
RGOB will provide, in accordance with the MOU in local currency or in kind, the
equivalent of 10 percent of the planned expenditure of each year. The proposed
financing plan is shown in summary form in Table 4.3 below.
Table 4.3: Proposed Financing Plan (USS'000)
Expenditures Catego-      BTF1/    WWF-US2L    RGOB3/    UNDP/DANIDA   T         |
ry                                                            EEC2/
Institutional              339         79         18           237         673
Strengthening
National System of         134        136         21           ---         291
Protected
Areas
Strengthening Exist-
ing
Protected Areas
a. Royal Manas         216         163         21           25          425
b. Jigme Dorji          214        225         25           70          534
New Protected Areas        163         95            4            75         337
Total Financing Re-               |     698         89           407       2,260
quired                  1,0664/                          1
1/   GEF financing is included under BTF.  The proportion of GEF funding as a
percentage of BTF's resources depends on how much is raised from other donors.
2/   WWF-US/UNDP/DANIDA/EEC contributions include some support to ongoing programs.
3/   RGOB financing may be in cash or kind.
4/   BTF financing amounts to about 47 percent of the total.
4.5       As noted, UNDP's Trust Department will invest BTF's resources to produce
an income which will support BTF's program of activities. Since it is the intention
of the MB to maintain its principal in real terms, a part of the investment income



20
will be reinvested to hedge against inflation. After meeting UNDP's charges for
handling investments and the cost of the program coordinator's office, the balance
would be available for meeting the actual program expenditures.
4.6       After BTF becomes operational and program implementation begins,
RGOB would continue ito efforts to raise additional contributions from donors
to supplement GEF's second tranche of US$3.0 million which will be released if
the agreed conditions have been fulfilled. The next phase of the program will
be planned on the basis of resources which are fully committed to BTF, at that
time, including the GEF second tranche. The new replenishment would enable
BTF to plan to expand the program (e.g., open a new sanctuary) from year six
onwards. Annex 2 indicates the level of program expenditures that would be
sustainable under a worst-case scenario of no further bilateral contributions.
The only further contribution to BTF would therefore be the second tranche GEF
contribution in 1997, or before, of US$3.0 million in current dollars
(US$2.665 million in 1997 dollars, assuming 3 percent inflation). Under this
pessimistic scenario, program expenditures would be constrained by the need to
avoid depletion of the BTF capital. Assuming, realistically, a 3 percent real
return on capital, BTF program expenditures could be maintained at US$350,000
a year (in real terms) from the year 2000 onwards. For the sake of illustra-
tion, a scenario has also been projected on the assumption of only a 1 percent
real return on capital. Even on this highly unlikely scenario expenditures of
US$350,000 a year could be sustained for over forty years provided that the
MOU is amended to allow a draw-down of capital.
C. Procurement
4.7       Salaries and operating and maintenance expenses are expected to
account for over 60 percent of the proposed program. Construction valued at
some US$100,000 (e.g., Gasa regional headquarters, nature centers trails, and
campsites) would be in such remote and inaccessible places that it will
unavoidably have to be undertaken under force account; domestic contractors
who are few in number are highly unlikely to be interested in such limited
construction work in isolated areas. The procurement of vehicles, survey and
GIS equipment valued around US$125,000 would be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list
of at least three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible
under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. A three quotation procedure would
also be used for locally purchased goods. In practice, BTF is expected to use
UNDP's procurement procedures which are acceptable by the Bank. BTF funds
will not be utilized for expert services from overseas, but will be funded
from other donor contributions. Since a large proportion of the project
activities to be financed by BTF involves salaries and maintenance expendi-
tures, no major procurement issues are foreseen.
D. Disbursement
4.8       The GET grant would be disbursed in two tranches directly to Bhutan
to be deposited into BTF account. The first tranche of US$7.0 million will be
disbursed following effectiveness, and the second tranche will be disbursed
after the agreed conditions have been fulfilled. The latter is expected to



21
occur between years three and five. Since the GET contribution will take
place upfront, no reimbursement would be involved. However, RGOB would be
required to submit a withdrawal application for each of the tranches. BTF
will incur expenditures only in respect of a program already agreed with GET,
and the utilization of funds for the agreed program would be reviewed during
supervision which is planned during the initial phase of the program until
disbursement of the second tranche. When the Bank determines that the
conditions (as detailed in Annex 3) have been fulfilled and releases the
second tranche, its formal involvement will cease and the project would be
closed. This is expected to be July 1, 1997. However, if the BTF is dis-
solved or if it becomes evident, even after GEF's involvement in the project
has ceased, that BTF's funds are being used for purposes which bear little
relation to biodiversity conservation, the Bank could seek a return of GET's
share of the remaining assets. A completion report would be prepared by RGOB
when the Bank releases the second tranche, and ends project supervision.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1       Manaaement Board of BTF.  The Memorandum of Understanding that
established the BTF provides for a MB to oversee BTF's operations. The MB
would initially have five members of which three would represent RGOB, while
UNDP and WWF-US would each have a representative. The functions of the MB are
to: (a) approve the annual work program and budget; (b) provide an estimate of
annual expenditures to UNDP to enable the latter to provide BTF the needed
funds while achieving the most efficient cash management of BTF's resources;
(c) appoint THE PC and his/her immediate staff; (d) review the financial
condition of the BTF based on reports submitted by the PC and approve the
needed adjustments to the program; and (e) receive and review internal audits
of project activities. The MB would meet least once a year to approve the
work program and budget, but may meet more often if warranted. Approvals
require four out of five votes. The MB could seek guidance from a Board of
Advisors made up of technical specialists provided either by BTF's donors or
others, and offering their services at no cost to BTF.
5.2       Program Coordinator.  A PC will be hired to be responsible for
(a) day-to-day management and administration of project activities3;
(b) preparation of project proposals for funding by BTF; (c) overseeing
implementation, reporting and evaluation; (d) reporting to the MB regarding
the status of project activities; and (e) liaison and coordination between the
MB and RGOB, donors, and UNDP. The PC would be located in the DOF since much
of the on-the-ground activities will be implemented by the DOF. The selection
of a candidate with the right kind of background, expertise and motivation is
vital for the success of the project. The PC would be appointed by the MB and
be in place before the grant becomes effective.
3/   The actual day-to-day implementation of project activities would be
handled by the line agencies of RGOB.



22
5.3       RGOB Line Agencies.  RGOB's line agencies will be responsible for
the implementation of the project's components. Responsibility in this regard
will devolve principally on the DOF, and more specifically on the WLD, which
is to be reconstituted as the NCD. The upgrading of WLD to the NCD is a
condition of grant effectiveness. In order to ensure that project activities
do not proceed in isolation of the DOF's (or any other agency's) functions
with regard to conservation, the BTF-supported programs will be fully inte-
grated with the other relevant programs of RGOB. The establishment of the NCD
with a complement of staff with the desired skills and its mandate to expand
the breadth and depth of conservation-related activities would be a direct
result of the project, and the continued availability of BTF funds offers the
best hope of sustaining these activities in the coming years. The head of NCD
will report to the Director General of the DOF, but may be authorized by the
latter to liaise closely with the PC with regard to matters such as the
submission of new proposals, and preparation of status reports. NCD will be
headed by an experienced official at the joint director level, who will bear
major responsibility for ensuring that the surveys, studies and inventories
are launched on time, are supported by the needed expertise both from abroad
and within the country, and that the baseline data are processed expeditiously
and efficiently. NCD will also play a major role in the education and
information campaigns aimed at securing the full cooperation of the affected
communities to the expanded conservation program and also the enlarged network
of protected areas.
5.4       PreDaration of Annual Work Program.  In consultation with the NCD
and other concerned units of RGOB, the PC will prepare the proposed work
program for the following year which begins each year on July 1. In preparing
the work program, it is the PC's responsibility to ensure that the activities
fully reflect the objectives of BTF; that they are implementable, taking into
account the capacity of the implementing units, and not simply desirable; and
that the financial requirements of the program (including the projected
recurrent costs) can be met from the net income (after replenishment of
capital) available from investment of the BTF resources. The PC presents the
work program to the MB, provides explanations or clarifications as needed, and
follows the guidance of the MB in finalizing the program. It was agreed that
a draft annual work program will be submitted by RGOB to the Bank for comments
prior to formal approval of the MB.
5.5       Program Monitoring.  Once the program is approved and implementa-
tion begins, the PC will be responsible for ensuring that the implementing
units obtain all the needed approvals, authorizations and fund releases which
will contribute to the efficient execution of the program. The PC will agree
with the DOF and others concerned regarding work program targets - both
physical and financial - which are necessary to achieve within the overall
context of the conditions agreed between the Bank and RGOB for release of the
second tranche of the GET funds. The agreed conditions would be (a) a fully
functioning NCD with adequate staffing at headquarters and in the field
offices; (b) revision of the BFI curriculum to place more emphasis on wildlife
and biodiversity protection and community participation; (c) development of a
biological diversity information system within the DOF to facilitate prepara-
tion of management plans; (d) adoption by RGOB of a revised national protected
area system plan; (e) gazetting of four protected areas; (f) upgrading of two



23
protected areas - Jigme Dorji Wildlife Sanctuary and Royal Manas National
Park; and (g) development of a detailed management plan for a new protected
area (possibly Black Mountain). Details are provided in Annex 3. The above
conditions would serve as a basis for the second tranche release by GEF. The
PC will also be responsible for forward planning, with a view to ensuring
that, as the ground is prepared for expansion, efforts are also under way to
mobilize additional resources from prospective donors.
5.6       Audit.  The Royal Audit Authority (RAA) is responsible for conduct-
ing an audit of the finances of all agencies of RGOB at the end of each fiscal
year. These audit arrangements are satisfactory. The RAA will audit the BTF,
based on the approved plans of annual expenditure, funds released from UNDP as
trustee of BTF upon the authorization of the Management Board of BTF, and
actual expenditures incurred each year on the approved project activities.
The PC will be responsible for preparing a statement of accounts for submis-
sion to BTF's Management Board.
5.7       Prolect SuDervision.  Given the open-ended nature of the proposed
project, and the practical difficulty of continuing supervision into the
indefinite future, the duration of supervision merits careful consideration.
During the first year, the project will be supervised at intervals of six
months. During the following four years, the interval between supervision may
be lengthened to nine months (or three supervision in two years) if progress
is deemed satisfactory. The supervision missions would include an organiza-
tion/institution specialist on all occasions and an ecologist once a year. It
should also be possible to maintain some continuity through missions which
supervise the ongoing forestry projects which will be dealing, in some cases,
with the same institutions. Once a year or three times during the five-year
period, provision would be made for including financial expertise on any of
the above missions to review progress concerning the financial aspects of BTF.
The decision concerning the termination or extension of supervision beyond
five years will be based on the status of compliance with the second tranche
release conditions.
5.8       Revortina Recuirements.  In addition to submitting draft annual
work program to the Bank prior to approval by the MB, progress reports
(including statements of accounts) will be submitted to the Bank annually.
5.9       Mid-Term Review.  The Bank proposes to conduct a mid-term review
towards the end of the project's third year to ascertain progress towards
established objectives within a given time frame, evaluate the implementation
arrangements, and determine any needed modifications.
5.10      Proiect Completion Relort.  The project closing date will be
December 31, 1997, after which RGOB will prepare a Project Completion Report
within six months thereafter. Since the project has no finite time frame, the
Project Completion Report will relate to implementation performance during
the first five years.



24
VI. PROJECT IMPACT AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1       The principal benefit of the project is institution building for
better and sustainable environmental management. While this benefit is
considerable, it is largely non-quantifiable. The establishment of the NCD am
a well-staffed institution and with an adequate budget would create a focal
point within RGOB to conceptualize, plan and implement programs related to
conservation. The creation of a vast ecological database will facilitate
long-term planning for the country's present and prospective protected areas.
The project will also contribute to an enhanced awareness on the part of
people about the need for preserving the country's rich and varied biodiver-
sity and, through this process, assist in containing the incipient threat to
the environment stemming from encroachment of protected areas by people and
livestock, and illegal activities which destroy national wealth. In the
longer run, the project would enhance RGOB's ability to achieve a better
balance between the need to undertake the commercial exploitation of its
resources to promote development for which there would unavoidably be mounting
pressure, and the concurrent need to ensure that development is ecologically
sound and sustainable.
6.2       Some of the project's benefits transcend national frontiers.
Improvement of management of forests and watersheds in Bhutan would minimize
the flooding of its rivers which mostly flow south where they cause substan-
tial loss of human and animal life and property in India and Bangladesh. The
downstream damage has a disruptive effect on the movement of people and goods
into and out of Bhutan as well, as its reduction can also have some beneficial
effects for Bhutan. The preservation of Bhutan's rich biodiversity also has
global benefits in terms of saving its plants for medicinal and industrial
uses on a broader front and building up genetic material for posterity.
B. Risks
6.3       The project faces four types of risks.  These are (a) slower-than-
expected build-up of institutional capacity; (b) inadequate financial
resources to support an expanding program; (c) social conflict in southern
Bhutan; and (d) pressures from population growth/economic development.
The project follows a programmatic approach by which steps are taken to assign
and train people before launching activities where they will be deployed.
Human resources development is a major component of the project. The finan-
cial resource situation will be closely monitored and only those programs
which can be sustained will be launched. If the political situation should
worsen in the south and cause disruptions in working in Royal Manas National
Park, then another protected area will be substituted. The population/
development pressures are more problematic, but through a program of public
education, keeping conservation areas off limits to people, and balancing the
needs of conservation and development, it is expected that the risks could be
reduced to an acceptable level.



25                        ANNEX 1
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING AMONG THE        Page 1 of 22
ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF BHUTAN, WORLD WILDLIFE FUND
AND THE CONSERVATION FOUNDATION
AND THE UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAHKE
FOR ESTABLISHING A TRUST FUND
FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION IN BHUTAN
Whereas the Royal Government of Bhutan (the "RGOB")
has established a programme for environmental conservation of
Bhutan's extensive forest cover and abundant bio-diversity
and has requested international development co-operation and
technical assistance for this purpose;
Whereas at the request of "RGOB", World Wildlife
Fund and the Conservation Foundation ("WWF") and the United
Nations Development Programme ("UNDP") desire to co-operate
with the RGOB and provide assistance, through a Trust Fund
for Environmental Conservation in Bhutan (the "Trust Fund"),
to identify appropriate programme activities and to raise
necessary financial resources for their implementation:
NOW, THEREFORE, the RGOB, the WWF and the UNDP (the
"Parties") have concluded the present Memorandum of
Understanding ("Memorandum"), as a legally binding contract,
and hereby agree as follows:
I. PQRA.EoQ
1.   The Purpose of this Memorandum is to establish the terms
and conditions for co-operation between the Parties to
obtain financial and technical support and assistance
for the environmental conservation programme of the RGOB
in Bhutan (the "Programme").



ANNEX 1
26                         Page 2 of 22
2.   The Programme shall consist of the following activities
(the "Project Activities"):
(a) training foresters, ecologists, natural resource
managers and other environmental professionals and
managers;
(b) surveys of Bhutan's biological resources and
development of an ecological information base;
(c) review of the protected area system, establishment
of new protected areas and development and
implementation of management plans;
(d) institutional support for the National
Environmental Committee, Department of Forestry,
the Royal Society for the Protection of Nature, the
Research and Nature Study Center;
(e) environmental education in the schools, and public
awareness campaigns; and
(f) projects integrating conservation and development.
II.  FINANCING THE PROGRAE
1.   The Programme shall be financed from the Trust Fund to
be established by the UNDP in accordance with this
Memorandum on the basis of such Project Activities as
shall be approved by the Management Board (the "Board")
provided for in Article III below.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 22
27
2.   The Trust Fund shall consist of the Principal together
with Investment Income, as described below. The
Principal shall consist of all contributions received by
the UNDP for the purposes for which the Trust Fund was
established and that portion of Investment Income
retained as Principal by decision of the Board.
Investment Income shall consist of interest and dividend
income, realized capital gains and other accrued income.
3.   The Project Activities shall be contained in an
appropriate instrument or document (the "Instrument"),
defining in detail the particulars of each activity
including schedules of disbursements and details of
financial reporting and accounting requirements.
4.   The Project Activities will be implemented by the RGOB
or an appropriate Entity or Entities designated by the
RGOB and shall be funded by a portion of the Investment
Income, the other portion remaining in the Trust Fund in
order to maintain or increase the real value of the
Principal.
5.   Principal may be invaded only in exceptional cases and
upon the unanimous agreement of the full Board, subject
to the following limitations:
(a) No invasion of Principal will be allowed until the
Principal of the Trust Fund has reathed a minimum
value unanimously agreed upon by the full Board;
(b) At no time may the Principal be invaded so that its
value falls below $10 million;



ANNEX 1
28                          Page 4 of 22
(c) The Board shall reduce projected spending in
subsequent years so as to prioritize the rapid
replenishment of the Principal to pre-invasion
levels.
III.
1.   Composition
(a) There shall be established a Management Board
composed of five members. The WWF and the UNDP
shall each appoint one member and the RGOB will
appoint three. The Chairperson shall be elected
from among the Members appointed by the RGOB. A
Secretary and a Treasurer will be selected by vote
from among the other Board Members.
(b) The number of Members may be increased from time to
time by a unanimous vote of the full Board as
provided for in III(5)(c) and subject to the
conditions of III(5)(a).
2.   Functions
(a) The Project Activities, including the budget
covering the estimated expenditures for their
implementation, shall be approved on an annual
basis by the Board at the regularly scheduled
annuial Board Meeting.



ANNEX 1
29                          Page 5 of 22
(b) The Board shall each year provide the UNDP with an
estimate of the total anticipated expenditures for
the coming year in order to maximize the
performance of cash management services of the
Trust Fund.
(c) The Board shall be responsible for the hiring and
discharge of a Programme Manager and such personnel
to assist him/her in carrying out his/her functions
as defined in VI(1). Such Programme Manager may,
but need not necessarily, be an official of the
National Environmental Secretariat or other agency
of the RGOB.
(d) The Board shall oversee the financial condition of
the Trust Fund, review reports prepared by the
Programme Manager and make decisions regarding new
Project Activities and/or cutbacks.
(e) The Board shall oversee routine internal audits of
all Project Activities it finances and prepare an
annual report for the UNDP on Project Activities
and fund disbursements carried out within the
preceding fiscal year.
3.   General Meetings
The Board shall hold at least one annual meeting on a
regularly scheduled date and place to be determined by
the Board.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 22
30
4.   SDecial Meetings
Special meetings of the Board may be called by the
Chairperson, the Secretary or any Board Member. Special
meetings shall be held on at least thirty (30) days'
notice by mail or ten (10) days' notice by personal
delivery, by telephone or by other electronic mail
means. Such notice shall state the time and place where
the meeting is to be held and the purpose for which the
meeting is called.
5.   Voting and Ouorum Rules
(a)  Decisions of the Board shall be adopted by a four-
fifths majority of the full membership. However,
if Board Membership is increased, the number of
members required to obtain such a majority vote
and/or to constitute a quorum will also be
increased so as to ensure that no Board decision
can be passed against the combined opposition of
two of the Parties.
(b) Members of the Board may participate in a meeting
through the use of conference telephone or similar
communications equipment, so long as all members
participating in such meeting can hear one another.
Such participation shall constitute personal
presence at the meeting.
(c) For the purposes of the meetings of the Board,
four-fifths of the full membership shall constitute
a quorum for the transaction of business except as
herein provided. Full Board participation and a
unanimous vote will be required for decisions



ANNEX 1
31                         Page 7 of 22
relating to the expansion in Board membership, the
invasion of Trust Fund principal and any change in
Board rules.
(d) In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the Board
Members present may adjourn the meeting from time
to time, for a period of not more than thirty days
at any one time until a quorum shall attend.
6.   Board of Advisors
The Board may appoint a Board of Advisors composed of
donors to the Trust Fund and/or experts in the fields of
environmental conservation and development assistance,
to serve without compensation as consultants to the
Board.
IV. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PARTIES
1.   ResRonsibilities of the RGOB
(a) The RGOB shall use its best efforts to maintain
Bhutan's forest cover at its current percentage of
the country's area, as determined by a survey to be
completed within 18 months of the date of the
signing of this Memorandum, and permanently to set
aside the same percentage of the country's area as
protected reserves as exists on the date of the
signing of this Memorandum. "Forest cover",
methodologies for measuring forest cover, and
"protected reserves" shall be defined in a
supplemental memorandum of understanding among the



ANNEX 1
32.                         Page 8 of 22
UNDP, the RGOB and the WWF, to be agreed upon
before any commitments or disbursements are made on
any Project activity.
(b) If Bhutan's forest cover at any time falls more
than two percent below its current percentage of
the country's area as determined in accordance with
subparagraph (a) above, the RGOB agrees to
undertake all reasonable and possible action to
restore the country's forest cover so that it shall
at least equal such percentage of the country's
area.
(c) Fifteen days prior to each calendar quarter, the
RGOB shall contribute matching funds equivalent to
10% of budgeted disbursements for that quarter as
approved by the Board. Such contribution may be
paid either in local currency or in kind (e.g.,
providing land, local staff and labor for Project
Activities). The RGOB contribution shall be
included in the project budget to be included in
the Instrument. The value of RGOB in-kind
contributions will be determined by the Board.
(d) The RGOB shall be responsible for the effective
implementation of the Project Activities under the
Programme, as approved by the Board, and shall be
accountable to the UNDP for the proper use of the
funds allocated from the Trust Fund.
2.   Responsibilities of the WWF
(a) The WWF shall make the first contribution to the
Trust Fund in the amount of US S1 million, as a



ANNEX 1
33                          Page 9 of 22
recognition of its commitment to the success of the
Trust Fund. This amount shall be paid upon
signature of this Memorandum.
(b) If requested by the RGOB, and should it have the
relevant expertise and/or resources, the WWF will
provide technical support and assistance on terms
to be agreed with the Board in the implementation
of the Project Activities through its Bhutan
country programme.
3.   Responsibilities of the UNDP
(a) The UNDP shall establish the Trust Fund under UNDP
financial rules and regulations for purposes of
receiving and recording the contributions towards
the Programme and the disbursements for the Project
Activities as provided under this Memorandum.
(b) The UNDP will provide accounting and financial
services to the Trust Fund and such administrative
services as required. The services to be provided
by the UNDP shall include the management and
investment of the assets of the Trust Fund in
accordance with UNDP regulations, rules and
procedures, and Cash Management Guidelines.
(c) At the request of RGOB, the UNDP will facilitate
international fund-raising through its Round Tables
mechanism.
(d) If requested by the RGOB, UNDP will provide
technical assistance through the Bhutan Country
Programme.



ANNEX 1
34                          Page 10 of 22
4.   Responsibilities of the RGOB. UNDP and WWF
The RGOB, UNDP and WWF undertake to use their best
efforts, collectively and individually, to interest
donors to contribute towards the Programme and will
engage in a fund-raising effort to raise at least S10
million to form the initial principal of the Trust Fund.
V. T2RUSTUND
1.   Administration
(a) The Trust Fund shall be administered by the UNDP in
accordance with the regulations, rules and
procedures applicable to UNDP trust funds.
(b) The Trust Fund shall be charged such amounts as are
necessary to meet the costs of the services
rendered by UNDP for the administration of the
Trust Fund, in accordance with the provisions of
Annex I hereto.
2.   Contributions to the Trust Fund
(a) Contributions to the Trust Fund shall be accepted
by the UNDP from Governments of Member States of
the United Nations, of the Specialized Agencies or
of the International Atomic Energy Agency, from
intergovernmental or non-governmental organizations
and from private sources.



ANNEX 1
35                         Page 11 of 2
(b) Contributions to the Trust Fund may be paid in cash
or by means of an Irrevocable Standby Letter of
Credit, in form and substance satisfactory to the
UNDP. Any Irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit
which is issued to the Trust Fund shall be written
such that it may be drawn upon within 30 days of
the date that the initial $10 million of donor
commitments are available.
(c) Contributions to the Trust Fund may only be
accepted in amounts of or in excess of the
equivalent of US$1 million until the initial US$10
million target is reached, in fully convertible
currency or in any other currency which the UNDP
determines can be readily utilized. Such
contributions shall be deposited in a bank account
designated by the UNDP. Separate accounting
records will be maintained for the Trust Fund by
the UNDP.
3.   Rate of Exchange
The value of each contribution-payment, if made in other
than United States dollars, shall be determined by
applying the United Nations operational rate of exchange
in effect on the date of payment.
4.   Investment
(a) The principal amount shall be invested for maximum
realization of Investment Income in accordance with
UNDP investment rules and procedures.



ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 22
(b) All Investment Income shall be credited to the
Trust Fund and utilized consistently with this
Memorandum.
5.   Currency of account
All financial accounts and statements shall be expressed
in United States dollars.
6.   Utilization of the Trust Fund
(a) The portion of Investment Income not retained as
Principal shall be utilized for meeting the costs
of the Project Activities (excluding the value of
RGOB in-kind contributions) and administrative
costs for management services of the Trust Fund
provided by UNDP.
(b) The aggregate of the amounts budgeted for the
Project Activities and the estimated costs of the
support services, together with administrative
costs, shall not exceed the estimated Investment
Income, except to the extent authorized by
unanimous Board decision as provided for in
III(5)(c).
(c) If due to unforeseen circumstances, increases in
commitments or expenditures are expected or
realized and come to the attention of the UNDP, the
matter shall be reported by the UNDP to the Board
and the commitments and expenditures from the Trust
Fund may be reduced, suspended or terminated by the
UNDP as the Board shall determine.



ANNEX 1
37                         Page 13 of 22
7.   Management of the Trust Fund
The UNDP shall act as trustee of the Trust Fund and
provide administrative, accounting and financial
services to the Trust Fund, in accordance with UNDP
regulations, rules and procedures and the terms of this
Memorandum. It shall not be required to authorize any
expenditures from the Trust Fund until the targeted
Principal has been received or to finance any Project
Activities in excess of the Investment Income earned in
any one particular year except in each case to the
extent authorized by the Board.
8.   Dissolution. Termination
(a) The Trust Fund shall be dissolved upon completion
of the Programme.
(b) The Trust Fund shall be terminated if any of the
parties decides to withdraw from this Memorandum.
(c) Withdrawal shall be effected by such Party giving
at least six months written notice to the other
Parties of its intent to terminate this Memorandum.
(d) Upon termination of the Trust Fund, the RGOB shall
proceed with the orderly termination of all Project
Activities.
(e) Notwithstanding the termination of the Trust Fund,
the balance in the Trust Fund account shall remain
to be held by the UNDP until all liabilities
incurred in implementation of the activities have
been satisfied and Project Activities brought to an



I    .                     *~~C
ANNEX 1
38                         Page 14 of 2
orderly conclusion. After satisfying all
obligations and commitments, and once all
liabilities have been met, any funds or other
assets remaining shall be disposed of by the UNDP
as follows.
(i) equipment, supplies and other property
financed from the Trust Fund then located in
Bhutan shall vest in the RGOB;
(ii) all remaining assets of the Trust Fund shall
be distributed to the donors in proportion to
the payments made by them pursuant to this
Memorandum, but it is hoped that donors will
use such distributions for purposes of
environmental conservation in Bhutan;
(iii) where UNDP has accepted non-convertible
currency contributions, the donors of those
non-convertible currency contributions will
receive their return contribution in the
donated currency or in US dollars at UNDP
discretion.
9.  Audit
The Trust Fund shall be subject to the internal and
external auditing procedures provided for in the
financial regulations, rules and directives of the UNDP.



S
ANNEX 1
39                         Page 15 of 22
10. Regorting
The UNDP shall periodically provide to the Board
statements of Investment Income, charges and withdrawals
from the Trust Fund.
VI.  INLENNTATION OF THE PROGRAIQI
1.   Programme Manager Functions
The Programme Manager shall be responsible for:
(a) day to day management and administration of the
Project Activities funded by the Trust Fund;
(b) periodically preparing a list of project proposals
for possible future funding by the Trust Fund;
(c) oversight over project implementation, reporting,
evaluation, and Trust Fund disbursement;
(d) periodically reporting to the Board on the status
of Project Activities being funded by the Trust
Fund;
(e) liaison and coordination between the Board and the
following parties: the RGOB, the Entities and the
UNDP.



ANNEX 1
Page 16of 2
40
2.   Project Activities
(a) The RGOB shall assume the overall responsibility
for implementation of the Project Activities, as
approved by the Board.
(b) The RGOB shall be responsible to the Board for the
implementation of the Project Activities, and shall
be accountable to the UNDP and to the Board for the
proper utilization of the funds from the Trust
Fund.
(c) The implementation of individual Project Activities
may be entrusted by the RGOB to one or more
suitable, qualified and competent governmental or
non-governmental agencies or institutions (each
such agency or institution being herein referred to
as "Entity" or collectively as "Entities"), which
shall be accountable to the RGOB, the UNDP and the
Board for the proper utilization of the funds from
the Trust Fund.
3.   Administration
(a) The RGOB shall meet the local costs for the
implementation of the Programme as provided in
Article IV (1)(c).
(b)  The Programme Manager, the Board members or their
agents shall have the right to inspect the progress
of the Project Activities undertaken by the RGOB
and the Entities.



ANNEX 1
41.                         Page 17of 22
VII.      ONNEL
1.   Personnel hired pursuant to this Memorandum are not
staff members of the UNDP and are therefore not covered
by the Regulations and Rules of the United Nations
applicable to UNDP staff.
2.   Such personnel shall in all cases meet the highest
standards in terms of qualifications and competence and
be acceptable to the Board. Where the qualifications of
local applicants equal those of expatriate applicants
and the quality of performance will not otherwise be
affected, a preference shall be given to the hiring of
local personnel.
VIII.     OM=
1.   The RGOB and/or the Entities agree to observe the
principle of competitive bidding in the procurement of
goods or rental of supplies and equipment or in
contracting for services approved by the Board, except
in cases where the Board decides that this is
impractical and provides for another system of
procurement designed to ensure efficiency and economy of
operations. In all cases, the Board will follow UNDP
financial regulations.
2.   The RGOB and/or the Entities shall cause all goods and
equipment, financed out of the Trust Fund, to be insured
against loss or damage while in transit and upon arrival
on the site, for the duration of the Project Activities.



ANNEX 1
Page 18 of 22
42
Vehicles and other movable equipment shall additionally
be insured against third-party liability and collision.
The terms and conditions of such insurance shall be
consistent with sound commercial practices and shall
cover the full delivery value of the goods and
equipment. Such terms and conditions shall provide for
the proceeds of the insurance of imported goods and
equipment to be payable in a fully convertible currency.
Any insurance proceeds shall be credited to the Trust
Fund.
IX. ACCOUNTING. REPORTING
1.  The RGOB shall maintain proper accounts, records and
documentation, in respect of the funds received from
UNDP and disbursed by the RGOB, in such form as is
necessary to permit adequate review of use of the funds.
The form and content of the accounts, records and
documentation required, shall be provided by UNDP.
2.   The RGOB shall furnish to the Board technical progress
reports on the implementation of Project Activities, as
well as audited financial statements on the status of
the funds advanced by the UNDP to the RGOB from the
Trust Fund, in such form and at such times as the Board
shall determine.
3.   Any unspent balances shall be refunded to the UNDP for
the account of the Trust Fund by the RGOB not later than
thirty (30) days after the date of completion of the
Project Activities.



ANNEX 1
Page 19 of 22
43
4.   The required audit of the financial statements shall be
conducted by legally recognized RGOB auditors. At the
request of the Board, however, the RGOB and the Entities
shall permit an external audit of the accounts by an
independent external auditor acceptable to the UNDP.
X. s_rn[LIw OF nISPUTE
1.   Any issue, controversy or dispute between any of the
Parties arising out of or relating to the interpretation
or application of this Memorandum shall be settled
amicably by negotiations between such Parties or through
conciliation and, failing settlement by either or both
of these means, by arbitration.
2.   If the Parties agree to settlement by conciliation, any
Party shall have the right to request the appointment of
a conciliator by the International Chamber of Commerce.
The procedure for the conciliation proceedings shall be
fixed, in consultations with the Parties, by the
conciliator. The recommendation of the conciliator
shall contain a statement of the reasons on which it is
based. The Parties shall give due consideration to the
recommendation of the conciliator.
3.   Any controversy or claim which is not settled by
negotiation or conciliation or both shall be referred to
arbitration for settlement by any Party in accordance
with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules then obtaining.
Such arbitration shall be conducted under the auspices
of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) which
shall also serve as the Appointing Authority under the



cm
ANNEX 1
Page 20 of 22
Rules. The Parties shall be bound by the arbitration
award rendered in accordance with such arbitration, as
the final adjudication of any such controversy or claim.
4.   This Memorandum shall be interpreted and applied
consistently with the Standard Basic Assistance
Agreement (SBAA) signed between the RGOB and the UNDP on
4 July, 1978.
XI. ENTRY INTO FORCE: START OF OPERATIONS:
Return of Contributions
1.   This Memorandum shall enter into force on the date that
it is signed by the Parties.
2.   Donor contributions, including any letter of credit,
shall not be drawn upon or used and operations hereunder
shall not be carried out until the aggregate
contributions to the Trust Fund shall have reached the
equivalent of US$10,000,000; provided, however, that
this shall not preclude the right of UNDP to charge
Trust Fund Management Fees, as described in Annex I, for
any deposits it has managed.
3.   If such contributions in such amount shall not have been
made within two years after this Memorandum enters into
force, the UNDP shall return to each dan r the amount of
any contribution, including any letter of credit,
theretofore made by it, together with Investment Income
accrued thereon, and this Memorandum shall be
terminated.



ANNEX 1
Page 21 of 22
45
XII.   Alil
Any amendment to this Memorandum or any Attachments
hereto shall be effected by mutual agreement of the Parties
through an appropriate supplementary letter.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly
authorized, have signed the present Memorandum in triplicate,
on the dates and at the places indicated below by their
respective signatures.
For the United Nations             For the Royal Government
Development  r2ramme               of Bhutan
Signed on:             i ( , 1991  Signe    :, 1991
at: t   ,ilt.  ,,  8               at:  L4" :jIIA. I-f-«  . (
For the World Wildlife Fund
and the Conservation Foundation
Signed on:           (0. , 1991
at: t L                 ,C_



ANNEX 1
46                         Page 22 of 22
COSTS OF THE SERVICES TO BE RENDERED
BY UNDP
Accountina/Finanial Revorting
The RGOB will keep detailed records of all transactions and
will effect direct payments to vendors on behalf of the Trust
Fund and the UNDP will advance funds on a regular basis based on
the established annual budget established by the Board.
The RGOB will provide UNDP with proper accounts, records
and documentation as to the use of the funds advanced by UNDP.
The accounting services to be provided by UNDP will be
priced at:
3% of expenditures up to $500,000 a year.
2.5% of expenditures for amounts in excess of
$500,000.
Treasury/Asset Manaaement
The costs will be as follows:
Investment Management Fee:
0.3% of 1st $10,000,000 principal
0.2% of next $10,000,000
0.1% of amounts over $20,000,000
Fee to be based on average portfolio holdings, on annual
basis, and to be charged directly to Trust Fund.
As an example, should the assets of the Fund be $20,000,000
and the annual expenditures be $1,000,000, UNDP would charge
US$77,500 a year.



Run 1: 3% Real Rate of Return
Investment Analysis of BTF
(in thousands of 1993 dollars)
1      2       3      4       5      6       7       8      9      10      11     12      13     14      15     16      17
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009
BTF Capital
Begin'g-Year Capital  10,000  10,042  10,319  10,384  13,126  13,247  13,348  13,404  13,404  13.404  13,404  13.404  13,404  13,404  13,404  13,404  13,404
(Replenishment)         0      0       0      0   2,665       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0
(Investment Income)     0    292    301    302    305    386    389    390    390    390    390    390    390    390    390    390    390
RGOB Contribulion       20     23      19     18      22      24     29      35     35      35      35     35      35     35      35      35     35
Less Expenditures     271    297    255    245    286    312    364    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425
End-Year Capital     9,749  10.018  10,082  10,157  12,862  12,959  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014
Expenditures
Fixed charges          71      72      70     70      71      72     74      75     75      75      75     75      75     75      75      75     75
Operalion exp.        35      35     35      35     35      35      35     35      35     35      35     35      35      35     35      35     35
UNDP mgmt fee         30      30     30      30     30      30      30     30      30     30      30     30      30      30     30      30     30
UNDP service fee       6       7      6       5      6       7       9     11      11     11      11      11     11      11     11      11      11
Progiaii Expenditures   200    225    185    175    215    240    290    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350
Tolal Expendilures     271    297    255    245    286    312    364    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425
Assumplions:
Real rate of relurn on invested capital 3%
Investment income and replenishment accrue on fifst day ol each fiscal year and are Ihus part of beginning-year capital
Infilalion rate 3%
Program Expenditures are constrained by need to keep real value of capital constant
oF 



RUN 1: 3% Real Rate of Return
Investment Analysis of BTF
(in thousands of 1993 dollars)
18     19      20     21      22      23      24     25      26      27     28      29      30
2010   2011   2012   2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   2018   2019   2020   2021   2022
BTF Capital
Begin'g-Year Capital  13,404  13,404  13,404  13,404  13,404  13,404  13,404  13,404  13,404  13,404  13,404  13,404  13,404
(Replenishment)         0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0       0      0       0
(Investment Income)    390    390    390    390    390    390    390    390    390    390    390    390    390
RGOB Contribution       35     35      35      35      35     35      35      35     35      35      35     35      35
Less Expenditures      425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425
End-Year Capital    13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014  13,014
Expenditures                                                                                                                             02
Fixed charges           75     75      75      75      75     75      75      75     75      75      75     75      75
Operation exp.        35      35      35     35      35      35     35      35      35     35      35      35     35
UNDP mgmt fee         30      30     30      30      30      30     30      30      30     30      30      30     30
UNDPservicefee        11      11      11     11      11      11      11     11      11     11      11      11     11
Program Expenditures   350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350
Total Expenditures     425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425
Assumptions:
Real rate of return on invested capital 3%
Investment income and replenishment accrue on first day of each fiscal year and are thus part of beginning-year capital
Intlation rate 3%
Program Expenditures are consirained by need to keep real value of capital constant
H '
0
oi
I,,



Run 2: 1 % Real Rale of Return
Investment Analysis of BTF
(in thousands of 1993 dollars)
1      2       3       4        5       6       7       8       9      10      11      12      13      14      15      16      17
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998   1999   2000   2001    2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009
BTF Capita!
Begin'g-Year Capital  10,000   9,847   9,922   9,781  12,314  12,170  12,001  11,783  11,506  11,227  10,945  10,660  10,372  10,082   9,788   9,492   9;193
(F1eplenishment)         0       0       0       0   2,665       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       8
(Invesiment lncornu)     0      97      98      97      96     120    119    117       114    111      108     106     103     100      97      94    ,91
f1GOB Contribution       20      23      19      18      22      24      29      35      35      35      35      35      35      35      35      35      35
Less Expenditures       271     297    255      245     286    312    364    425        425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425
End-Year Capilal      9.749   9,823   9,685   9,554  12,050  11,882  11,666  11,392  11.116  10,837  10,555  10,270   9,982   9,691   9,398   9,102   8,802
Expendilures
Fixed charges            71      72      70      70      71      72      74      75      75      75      75      75      75      75      75      75      75
Operation exp.         35      35      35      35      35      35      35      35      35       35      35     35       35      35      35      35      35
UNOP mgmt fee          30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30       30     30       30      30      30      30      30
IJNDPservicelee         6       7       6       5       6        7      9      11      11      11      11      11       11     11       11      11      11
Program Expenditures    200    225      185     175     215    240    290    350        350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350            350
Total Expendilures      271     297    255    245       286     312    364    425       425     425    425    425       425    425    425    425    425
Assumplions:
Real rate of relurn on invested capital 1%
Invesiment income and replenishment accrue on first day of each fiscal year and are thus part of beginning-year capital
Inflation rate 3%
Program Expendilures are as Run 1, but because of assumption of very low real return on capital the real value of the BTF capital Is halved after 30 years    :X
0



RUN 2: 1% Real Rate of Return
Investment Analysis of BTF
(in thousands of 1993 dollars)
18     19      20      21      22     23      24      25      26     27      28      29      30
2010   2011    2012   2013   2014   2015   2016   2017   2018   2019   2020   2021   2022
BTF Capital
Begin'g-Year Capital  8.890   8,585   8,276   7,965   7,650   7,332   7,011   6.687   6.360   6,029   5,695   5,358   5,017
(Replenishment)         0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0
(Investment Income)    88      85      82      79     76      73      69      66     63      60      56      53     50
RGOB Conlribution       35      35      35     35      35      35      35      35     35      35      35      35     35
Less Expenditures      425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425
End-Year Capital     8,500   8,194   7,886   7,574   7,260   6,942   6,621   6,297   5,969   5,639   5,305   4,967   4,627
Expenditures                                                                                                                                  _
Fixed charges           75      75      75      75     75      75      75      75     75      75      75      75     75
Operation exp.        35      35      35      35      35     35      35      35      35     35      35      35      35
UNDP mgmt tee         30      30      30      30      30     30      30      30      30     30      30      30      30
UNDPservicetee        11      11      111     1 1     11     ii      11      11      11      11     11      11      11
Program Expenditures   350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350    350
Total Expenditures     425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425    425
Assumptions:
Real rate of return on invested capital 1%
Investment income and replenishment accrue on first day of each fiscal year and are thus part of beginning-year capital
Inflation rate 3%
Program Expenditures are as Run 1, but because of assumption of very low real return on capital the real value of the BTF capital is halved a
m H -.M
0



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
BHUTAN
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
Conditions for Release of Second Tranche
1.        The second tranche of GEF funds will be disbursed when the
following actions have been taken:
(a) The Wildlife Division (WLD) is upgraded to a Joint Director level
Nature Conservation Division (NCD) with four additional
professional staff and two support staff at headquarters and a
complement of staff in the field, particularly Deputy Directors at
each functioning protected areas. All new staff should have
received in-service training.
(b) The curriculum at the Bhutan Forestry Institute (BFI) is revised to
include wildlife management, biological diversity protection, and
people and parks. It is expected that three instructors at BFI
would receive additional training overseas. Refresher courses on
wildlife and protected areas management (including community
participation) should be developed and taught at least once a year.
(c) The development of a biological diversity information system
capability within the Department of Forestry's Management Division
for management planning and monitoring. This includes the
secondment of professional staff to this Division from the WLD to
work exclusively on updating the existing biological resource
database, computerizing and processing field biological and socio-
economic data, and developing a Geographic Information System (GIS)
database which would produce management plans for protected areas
and for monitoring changes. In addition, two existing GIS
technicians would have completed short training courses overseas.
(d) Adoption by RGOB of a revised national protected areas system plan
including classification of protected areas into different clearly
defined protection categories and the prioritization of the
protected areas for management.
(e) The issuance of official notification/gazettement for four priority
protected areas and the completion of operational plans for these
four areas.
(f) The upgrading of two existing protected areas--Jigme Dorji Wildlife
Sanctuary and Royal Manas National Park.a/ Upgrading includes, but
is not limited to, completion of baseline biological and socio-
economic surveys, completion of preliminary operational plans, and
establishment/upgrading of beat offices (3 for Jigme



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Dorji and 4 for Royal Manas) that are fully staffed and
functioning. All new staff would have completed at least one in-
service training course.
(g) The development of one detailed management plan for a new protected
area that would serve as a model for other protected areas.
2.        These actions can be achieved with resources available under the
project and from other identified sources. They are expected to be completed
in five years but completion could occur as early as three years.
_/   If social conflicts worsen in the south, it might therefore be
necessary to substitute another protected areas for Royal Manas
National Park. If such a change is necessary, then the Management
Board will inform RGOB, who in turn, will seek the Bank's approval.



53                                           ANNEX4
Table I
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
Estimated Cost of Proposed Activities
PROJECT 1: INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING ANO UPGRAOING OF THE WILDLIFE
DIVISION OF THE OEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY (DOF)
TOTAL BUDGET FOR PROJECT 1: YEARS I - 5 (IN US$ 1.000)
ACTIVITIES                                             BTF    RGOB         WWF  UNOP/EECIDANIOA    TOTAL
A. NATURE CONSERVATION DIVISION
Programs:
i Expen for NCD 6mm                                  0.00      0.00      20.00               0.00     20.00
2. Reference books. journals and periodicals        15.00      0.00       0.00               0.00     15.00
3. Workshops, seminars and tours                    15.00      0.00       4.00               0.00     19.00
4. Field camp equipments                            15.00      0.00       0.00               0.00     15.00
5. Educational materials and field trips
for selected schools                              20.00      0.00       0.00                0.00    20.00
a. Radio communications                             20.00      0.00       0.00               0.00     20.00
7. Office equipments (computers.
copiers, furniture. etc.)                         19.00      0.00        5.00               0.00    24.00
8. Vehicle                                          21.00      6.00       0.00                0.00    27.00
9. Regional training (or I person                   20.00      0.00       0.00                0.00    20.00
10. Regional training for 2 personai6wks             0.00      0.00        0.00              10.00     10.00
11. Regional training for 2 persons/year             0.00      0.00        0.00              75.00     75.00
12. Overseas training for 1 person                   0.00      0.00        0.00              50.00     50.00
13. Studytoursin the region                          15.00     0.00        0.00              10.00     25.00
Operations/Recurrent costs:
1. Salaries for two professional
staff and their support                           28.00     12.00       0.00                0.00    40.00
2. Maintenance                                       0.00      0.00       0.00                0.00     0.00
3. SalaryforJointDirector                           21.00      0.00       0.00                0.00    21.00
SUB-TOTAL FOR NATURE CONSERVATION DIVISION    209.00          18.00      29.00              145.00    401.00
B. IN-SERVICE TRAINING AT BFI:
Programs:
1. Expen for curricula development 6mm               0.00      0.00      20.00               0.00     20.00
2. Short courses for faculty at BFI                 15.00      0.00        5.00               0.00    20.00
3. Training for trainers overseas for 8 weeks       20.00      0.00        0.00               0.00    20.00
4. Refresher courses                                20.00      0.00        0.00               0.00    20.00
SUB-TOTAL FOR IN-SERVICE TRAINING AT BFI            55.00      0 00       25.00               0.00    80.00
C. DATA-BASE SET-UP:
Programs:
1. GIS/database consultant for 2mm/year              0.00      0.00       10.00               0.00     10.00
2. Map digitization (2 parkslyr)                    15.00      0.00       15.00               0.00     30.00
3. Training 2 staff tore weeks                      15.00      0.00        0.00               0.00     15.00
4. Training I technical staf 12 mm
in the region ArcINFO                              0.00      0.00        0.00              20.00     20.00
5. Computer and software                            10.00      0.00        0.00               0.00     10.00
6. Purchase of maps                                  14.00     0.00        0.00               0.00     14.00
7. Photo interpretation expen 12 mm                  0.00      0.00        0.00              72.00     72.00
Recurrent costs:
1. Salary                                           21.00      0.00        0.00               0.00     21.00
2. Maintenance costs                                 0.00      0.00        0.00               0.00      0.00
SUB-TOTAL FOR DATA-BASE SET-UP                      75.00      0.00       25.00              92.00    192.00
TOTAL COSTS:                                       339.00     18.00       79.00             237.00    673.00
Protected expenditure for year 6:                   50.00
Prolected expenditure for year 7:                   60.00
Projected expenditure for year 8:                   70.00
Prolected expenditure for year 9-                   80.00
Projected expenditure for year 10:                  90.00



54                                     ANNEX 4
rable 2
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
Estimated Cost of Proposed Activities
PROJECT 2: ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL SYSTEM OF PROTECTED AREAS
TOTAL BUDGET FOR PROJECT 2: YEARS 1 - 3 (IN USS 1,000)
ACTIVIliES                                        BTF    RGOB       WWF    UNDP   TOTAL
1. Two Experts for 6mm/year                       0.00      0.00    76.00      0.00    76.00
2. Sherubtse grads 4 person/year (part-time)     24.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    24.00
3. Field equipment                               11.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    11.00
4. Logistical support in the tield               15.00      6.00     0.00      0.00    21.00
5. Two workshops per year                        15.00      0.00     5.00      0.00    20.00
6. Training materials and publication            12.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    12.00
7. RSPN and wildlife staff                       12.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    12.00
8. Coordinator Wildlife Division                 12.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    12.00
9. Legal Fees                                     0.00      0.00    30.00      0.00    30.00
10. Maps and physical demarcation in
4 protected areas                               15.00    15.00     5.00      0.00    35.00
1 1. Planning workshops in the district           7.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     7.00
12. Planning meetings in Thimphu                  6.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     6.00
13. Technical input - management plan             0.00      0.00    10.00      0.00    10.00
14. Model management plan preparation             5.00      0.00    10.00      0.00    15.00
TOTAL COSTS FOR PROJECT 2:                       134.00    21.00    136.00     0.00   291.00



55                                   ANNEX 4
Table 3
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
Estimated Cost of Proposed Activities
PROJECT 3A: STRENGTHENING OF EXISTING PROTECTED AREAS - ROYAL MANAS NATIONAL PARK
TOTAL BUDGET FOR PROJECT 3A: YEARS 1 - 5 (IN US$ 1.000)
ACTIVITIES                                         BTF    RGOB       WWF    UNDP   TOTAL
1. Development of wildlife habitat                10.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     10.00
2. Buffer zone management                         15.00     0.00     15.00    15.00    45.00
3. Ecological/socio-economic study                 5.00     0.00    30.00      0.00     35.00
4. Short training courses in park management
for 3 weeks for two persons per year            10.00     0.00      5.00    10.00    25.00
5. Establishment of beat offices                  10.00     0.00    20.00      0.00     30.00
6. Conservation education                         20.00     0.00     25.00     0.00     45.00
7. Study tours for staff and local farmers
in the region                                    0.00     0.00    25.00      0.00     25.00
8. Development of new activities                  10.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     10.00
RECURRING COSTS:
1. Trail maintenance 10km/year                    12.00     0.00      2.00     0.00     14.00
2. Seasonal road maintenance (15 km per year)     19.00     0.00      2.00     0.00     21.00
3. Additional staff salary (5 personlyr)          66.00     0.00     12.00     0.00     78.00
4. Field equipments                               13.00     0.00      7.00     0.00     20.00
5. Guard post maintenance                         19.00     11.00     5.00     0.00     35.00
6. Vehicle                                         2.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      2.00
7. Vehicle maintenance                             3.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      3.00
8. Elephants                                       0.00     10.00    15.00     0.00     25.00
9. Office supplies                                 2.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      2.00
TOTAL COSTS:                                     216.00    21.00    163.00    25.00    425.00
Projectedi expenditure for year 6:                50.00
Projected expenditure for year 7:                 60.00
Projected expenditure for year 8:                 70.00
Projected expenditure for year 9:                 80.00
Projecteo expenditure for year 10:                90.00



56                                     ANNEX 4
Table 4
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
Estimated Cost of Proposed Activities
PROJECT 38: STRENGTHENING OF EXISTING PROTECTED AREAS - JIGME DORJI WILDLIFE SANCTUARY
TOTAL BUDGET FOR PROJECT 38: YEARS 1 - 5 (IN US$ 1,000)
ACTIVITIES                                          BTF    RGOB       WWF    UNDP   TOTAL
1. Development of wildlife habitat                  5.00      0.00    25.00      0.00     30.00
2. Traii Construction/maintenance                  14.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     14.00
3. Field Equipment                                 16.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     16.00
4. Buffer Zone Management                          30.00      0.00     40.00     0.00     70.00
5. Ecological/socio-economic survey                 0.00      0.00     40.00     0.00     40.00
6. Training in Park Management short
courses 3 weeks 2 persons/year                    0.00      0.00     0.00     50.00     50.00
7. Guard post establishment                        10.00      0.00     45.00     0.00     55.00
8. Ranger post establishment                       40.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     40.00
9. Eco-tourism development plan                    15.00      0.00     30.00     0.00     45.00
10. Conservation Education                         10.00      0.00    30.00      0.00     40.00
11. Study tours for staff and local
farmers in the region                             0.00      0.00     15.00     0.00     15.00
12. Vehicle                                         0.00      0.00     0.00     20.00     20.00
OPERATIONS/RECURRENT COSTS:
1. Additional Staff Salary 5 persons/year          52.00     20.00      0.00     0.00     72.00
2. Office supplies                                 12.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     12.00
3. Maintenance Costs                               10.00      5.00      0.00     0.00     15.00
TOTAL COSTS:                                      214.00     25.00    225.00     70.00    534.00
Projected expenditure for year 6:                 100.00
Projected expenditure for year 7:                 120.00
Projected expenditure for year 8:                 140.00
Projected expenditure for year 9:                 160.00
Projected expenditure for year 10:                180.00



5 7                                   ANNEX 4
Table 5
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
Estimated Cost of Proposed Activities
PROJECT 4: DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF A MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR THE
PROPOSED BLACK MOUNTAINS NATIONAL PARK
TOTAL BUDGET FOR PROJECT 4: YEARS 3 - 5 (IN US$ 1,000)
ACTIVITIES                                          BTF    RGOB       WWF    UNDP   TOTAL
1. Wildlife Inventory                              15.00     0.00     35.00      0.00     50.00
2. Establishment of Beat Offices                   35.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     35.00
3. Field Equipment                                 15.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     15.00
4. Buffer Zone Management                          10.00      0.00    10.00      0.00     20.00
5. Ecological/Socio-economic Survey                 0.00      0.00    35.00      0.00     35.00
6. Training in Park Management short
courses 3 weeks 2 persons/year                    0.00      0.00     0.00     30.00     30.00
7. Overseas study for 1 manager                     0.00      0.00     0.00     40.00     40.00
8. Conservation Education                          15.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     15.00
9. Study tours for staff and local
farmers in the region                             0.00      0.00    15.00      5.00     20.00
10. Vehicle                                        20.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     20.00
OPERATIONS/RECURRENT COSTS:
1. Additional Staff Salary 5 persons/year          31.00      2.00     0.00      0.00     33.00
2. Office equipment and supplies                   15.00      2.00     0.00      0.00     17.00
3. Maintenance Costs                                7.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      7.00
TOTAL COSTS:                                      163.00      4.00    95.00     75.00    337.00






_rerr   B H U T AIN 18RD 2351 1 R
___00oo                                                                                     EXISTING AND PROPOSED
3000looo                                                                                         PROTECTED AREAS
-      PROPOSED PROTECTED AREAS      A    ELEVATION POINTS Ir. METERS
-t   AIRPORT
EXISTING PROTECTED AE     ^    3   NATIONAL CAPITAL
RULLNG PROTECTD AREAS        0_KL   DISTRICT CAPITALS
I  *'-.                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 OTHER TOWNS
KULA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~0                            SELECTED  VILLAGES
SANG                                                       -  -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-. _  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
L   G          A   \S- - --_A
211-  ~*                      2>A  >>                                       3                           J        i(LH-1-                         rs    
/    i   ----.   g-~~~~F,PUNAKHiAA                                           B      M  T/H  A  IN,G 'i~~                                 _
/PARO.                                                                                                                           h' WNDPORG 2   ,  )   Lhunts, 
n    A   1 X   THIMPHU    2  ;jF'unokha                      -(:T q                  Bmtrn               -        J      A       rsh, Yongis.
IMPH          0                                                                                                  0sP o t   / ew    -   ~   9   /  v   \  r A 5 H  G A N G
Jzong HAA                                                            k,                                                   / O'
, chuzom                                    0 ~ > O  ,JMOUNEAIN y; .                               /              /
Gasa                                    K~~~~~~~)ONTI             K(gln
'   t  <§    tv      \                         CS            X   @Shensa                     t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~M O N -G A R.        -                           /
t ' ~~~~ / R / ~~~~D A G A N  A u>I  ~\-   <(;?,\mr-
Siir Ugl. en>ludoeeep^>eXe oft9 h bour                             90-         -                                                   -                    S Mo C               ?0 I               9?-
-6Ch.khG                                                                                                       PEMA1  a                                     i
r         unakh~~~~~-i\ N~           A YLKEPHUhJurNGnKH                                                                                        
/PARO  -~~~~~~-'I     K                                             I~~~~~~       ~~                              TasYangiDshheng
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nn!    Deothang hh-,'N
/                                                I~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1-9somck,                                                  SaffCI,Zkr,g1L     B'SCCp TRJS-I                                     Mno                KnIn
f    1-~~~-                                                                                                                      ."Es 0Ch9Isa  'N/  PEMA
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.op                                                                !/GTE                                                                          A    RU                 .
.2                   GAYLEGPHUG                                                        GIlL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGS 









@ Printed on recycled paper



