Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17642
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
(GET GRANT NO. 28602-BH)
April 2, 1998
Royal Government of Bhutan and
Rural Development Unit, South Asia Region, World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Ngultrum (Nu.)
November 1991 US$1.00  =  N'u. 25.75
1992 US$ 1.00  -  Nu. 26.00
1993 US$1.00  -  Nu. 30.00
1994 US$ 1.00  -  Nu.31.40
1995 US$1.00  -  Nu. 32.40
1996 US$1.00      Nu. 35.40
1997 US$1.00      Nu. 36.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
GRANT YEAR 1
The Grant became effective on November 2. 1992 and the tirst year of the operation was 1992/93.
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director: Robert S. Drvsdale
Technical Manager: Michael Baxter/Ridwan All
Staff Member: Jessica Mott



FOR OFFICIAL USE 4
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BTF         -      Bhutan Trust Flund for Environmental Conservation
DANIDA      -      Danish International Development Agency
DOF         -      Department of Forestry
GEF         -      Global Environment Facility
GET         -      Global Environment Trust
ICDP        -      Integrated Conservationi and Development Program
ICR         -      Implementation Completion Report
MOU         -      Memorandum of Understanding
NCS         -      Nature Conservation Section
NGO         -      Non-Governmental Organization
RGOB        -      Royal Government of Bhutan
UNDP        -      United Nations Development Program
UNEP        -      United Nations Environment Program
WWF-US    -        World Wildlife Fund. U.S.
As a GEF ICR, a public version of the final ICR will be developed and
made available to the public upon request. Other than the public version,
this document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witd
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
(GET GRANT NO. 28602-BH)
Preface .................................................i
Evaluation Summary ...............................................                                                                iii
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ..................................................3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Grant .................................................5
D. Sustainability ................................................6
E. World Bank Performance ................................................7
F. Grantee Performance ................................................8
G. Assessment of Outcome ................................................9
H. Plan for Future Operation ................................................9
I. Key Lessons Learned ...............................................                                                            10
PART 2: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .............................................                                                 12
Table 2: Related GEF  Biodiversity Trust Fund Projects .............................................     13
Table 3: Grant Timetable .............................................                                                        14
Table 4: Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................................. 14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Grant Implementation .............................................                                15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation (not applicable) ........................................ 18
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project (not applicable) .............................18................ l 8
Table 8A: Benchmark Program  and Secretariat Costs .............................................                               18
Table 8B: Benchmark Program  and Secretariat Financing ............................................. 19
Table 8C: Financing of BTF  Capital .............................................                                             19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .............................................                                           20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .............................................                                            21
Table  11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................................... 22
Table 12: World Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .............................................                                   22
Table 13: World Bank Resources: Missions ..............................................                                      23



Annexes
1. Achievement of Conservation  Prograni Objective ..............................................                                   25
2. Achievement of Trust Fund Objective ..............................................                                             29
3. Performance Review  Framework for Future BTF  Operations ..................................... 35
4. ICR Mission Aide Memoire ..............................................                                                        49
Attachment 1: Status of Recommendations ..............................................                                        52
Attachment 2: BTF  Policy and Operational Considerations ....................................... 53
Map IBRD 29304 - National Protected Areas System



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATO1ON
(GET GRANT NO. 28602-BH)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report for the Trust Fund for Environmental
Conservation Grant in Bhutan, for which GET Grant 28601 -BH in the amount of SDR 7.3
million (US$ 10.0 million) was approved on May 21, 1992 and made effective on November 2,
1992. The grant was formally closed on December 31, 1997, and was fully disbursed, with the
last disbursement taking place on December 16, 1996. Cofinancing was provided by WWF-US,
Government of Norway, Government of Netherlands, Government of Finland, Government of
Switzerland, and Government of Denmark.
2.    This ICR was prepared by a joint mission of the World Bank South Asia Rural
Development Sector Management Unit and the Royal Government of Bhutan. BTF staff
provided a preliminary rough draft of the ICR, which the Bank/RGOB team modified to meet
Bank ICR guidelines and to reflect the consensus of Bank and RGOB views. The mission, which
was also the Bank's final supervision mission, took place in October 1997 and involved a review
of material gathered from the BTF and Bank files, as well as on findings from field
investigations and discussions with Bank staff, RGOB staff, BTF staff, local cofinancier
representatives, and other individuals associated with the grant. Jessica Mott, SASRD Sr. Natural
Resource Economist, served as the task manager.
3.    The ICR has been distributed in draft form to BTF Board members, BTF core advisory
group members, cofinanciers, other interested stakeholders, and standard Bank reviewers. The
final report takes into consideration all comments, which were either oral, or informal copy-
editing suggestions.
Ms. Jessica Mott (mission leader), Ms. Susan Shen (Ecologist), Mr. Theodore M. Smith (Trust Fund
Specialist), and Mr. Kunzang Norbu (RGOB Planning Officer).






iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
(GET GRANT NO. 28602-BH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Bhutan - Trust Fund for Environmental Conservation was both the first GEF grant
(of US$10 million) for Bhutan, and the first GEF trust fund anywhere in the world. The trust
fund was funded under the pilot phase of the GEF.
Project Objectives
2.    Objectives. The objectives of the GEF grant as reflected in the Grant Agreement were
to:
(a)   assist the RGOB in initiating a comprehensive nation-wide environmental
conservation program and
(b)   test the feasibility of trust funds as a mechanism for providing long-term and
sustainable support for conservation of biodiversity.
The grant provided financing for the BTF, which in turn financed a conservation program
3.    Evaluation of Objectives. The conservation program objective was clear and realistic.
The grant agreement specified benchmarks to measure progress on this conservation program.
The benchmarks were achievable within the capacity of RGOB, given the Government's strong
commitment to conservation. The original grant documentation provides little direct elaboratioi
on the trust fund objective. Indirectly, the documentation referred to a few parmeters that coul
be used to measure the achievement of the objective, such as using the US$10 million of GEF
financing to attract an additional US$10 million from other donors, and preserving the real valu
of the initial capital.
Implementtion Experience and Results
4.    Achievements. The original conservation program benchmarks were achieved in three
years, less than the anticipated timeframe of five years. These benchmarks included: (a)
increase in conservation staff, (b) improved training, (c) strengthened information management
(d) new system of protected areas that is representative of the country's ecosystems, (e) protect
area gazettement and inventories, and (f) new park management plans. The grant also helped u
demonstrate the feasibility of trust fund mechanism that has the potential to provide long-tem,
sustainable support for biodiversity conservation. The RGOB used the GEF grant to attract
funds from other donors who have more than matched the GEF contribution of US$10 million
and also encouraged their financing of other biodiversity programs separate from the trust fund
In response to the experience of the first few years, the Board improved financial management I
contracting a professional asset manager and custodian to ensure higher income, improved
reporting, and coordinated fund flow. Consistent with its design, the grant achieved GEF pilot



iv
phase objectives of global benefits, innovation, demonstration value, uniqueness to the GEF
portfolio, sustainability, and monitoring mechanisms.
5.   Impact. Through the conservation benchmarks, the grant served as a catalyst to lay the
basic foundation for an effective long-term conservation program, by establishing the legal,
institutional, and technical framework, and in expanding implementation capacity. Regarding
the trust fund objective, the grant helped to create a permanent, well-capitalized institution. The
grant launched the first trust fund set up under the GEF and the first demonstration anywhere of a
conservaton "trust fund". It continues to provide useful lessons for environmental trust funds
worldwide, and potential trust finds involving other sectors in Bhutan.
6.    Sustainability. With continued prudent financial management, the trust fund is highly
likely to be financially sustainable. However, the BTF is still developing as an institution, and
the extent to which it reaches its full potential will depend upon institutional/management
effectiveness.
7.    Costs, Financing, and Implementation Timetable. When taking costs of the
benchmark conservation program into account for a five-year period, there is no significant
deviation between the total actual versus appraisal estimates of benchmark program costs.
Regarding financing for the conservation program, there were much greater than anticipated
contributions from donors (especially WWF) who responded to RGOB's request for assistance
when the BTF investment income was minimal during the initial years. The US$10.5 million
from cofinanciers to capitalize the BTF also exceeded expectations at appraisal.
8.    Key Factors. Enabling factors included the World Bank, UNDP, WWF-US, and other
donors' funds and advice; the responsible and flexible response to financial reporting and
investment deficiencies; strong ethic of integrity; the RGOB' s strong environmental sector
policies and commitment to biodiversity conservation; and the rapid appreciation of equities,
especially U.S. stocks. Inhibiting factors included inexperience in biodiversity trust fund design,
development, and operations; lack of an adequate number of qualified staff available to work on
conservation; limited time and attention which the BTF Board devoted to BTF issues; and
minimal staff and lack of authority of the BTF Secretariat. The importance in Bhutanese culture
of maintaining good relationships and making decisions through consensus was generally a
positive force but it also slowed the pace of implementation.
9.    Performance of World Bank. Bank involvement in identification and preparation was
minimal. At appraisal, in the context of the time, the World Bank mission provided adequate
technical, environmental, sociological, financial, and legal expertise and guidance. Bank support
during supervision was highly satisfactory. During this period, the World Bank was instrumental
in bringing about the necessary changes to the governance structure, financial reporting, and
investment arrangements, and in prompting the BTF Board to develop a strategic plan. The
highly collaborative relationship among the World Bank, BTF Board, BTF Secretariat, and
WWF-US throughout the grant period helped World Bank staff to supervise efficiently and
effectively. There was good continuity in World Bank staffing with only one change in task
manager.
10.   Performance of Recipient. RGOB demonstrated a high level of initiative and
commitment in developing this innovative trust fund proposal, devising a governance structure
that included an NGO and a multilateral donor, and in obtaining the necessary legal, financial,
and technical support from WWF-US and UNDP. During implementation, RGOB demonstrated



v
flexibility in issuing a Royal Charter in place of the original MOU in order to resolve financial
reporting and investment shortcomings. RGOB also implemented its conservation policies,
achieved the conservation benchmarks, provided its agreed share counterpart funds, and raised
additional cofinancing. At the institutional level, BTF continues to have room for continued
improvement in clarifying its funding policies, adopting systematic operatling procedures,
increasing communications with potential recipients and donors, time devoted by Board
members, and overall dynamism.
11.   Overall Outcome. The overall outcome of the grant is satisfactory. Had the strategic plan
been already finalized and operational for at least six months prior to the completion mission, the
outcome would likely have been rated highly satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Future Operations. Future operations will consist of implementing the objectives of the
BTF, as given in the Royal Charter, 1996. The BTF Board plans to guide these operations with a
strategic plan that articulates the long-term vision, the program priorities, and administrative
guidelines.
13.   Lessons for Future Operations in the Sector.
(a)   Trust funds need a legal framework to institutionalize collaboration between
donors and recipients, make decision-making and implementation transparent, and
hold management accountable.
(b)   Concrete conservation program benchmarks during the first five years served as
useful incentives, as clear indicators of achievement, and as mechanisms to
mobilize donor support.
(c)   During the initial period of trust fund establishment, it is essential to have reliable
start-up funding that does not depend upon investment income.
(d)   RGOB's reputation for integrity in governance, its demonstrated commitment to
conservation, and the small size of the country (with associated support from
interested European countries) all contributed to willingness of donors to make
relatively large contributions. These conditions may limit the likelihood of
replicating comparable levels of support for trust funds in many other countries.
(e)   The design and appraisal teams should include relevant expertise in financial
asset management, trust fund institutional development, and trust fund program
development.
(f)   Developing proposals for trust fund support of ICDP has proved more complex
than originally anticipated.
(g)   BTF's experience confirms that multi-stakeholder involvement is beneficial
(e.g., WWF-US and UNDP involvement in BTF Board, communication with
donors, involvement of local people in protected area management planning, etc.).
(h)   Trust fund performance should be evaluated from a long-term perspective,
taking into account the needs of future generations.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN --TRUST FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION
Introduction
1.    The unique character of a trust fund, a financial vehicle designed at the outset to serve
the needs of several generations, requires that it be evaluated against different criteria than
those customarily used in typical investment ' projects ". The lens through which it can be
assessed more legitimately should employ a time,frame of 50 years than one of 5 years. In fact,
the utility of such afinancing vehicle cannot realistically be judged in the first half decade of its
infancy. This report is therefore focused not on standard measures ofproject productivity
(including disbursements), but rather on the development of the underpinnings of an institutional
innovation dedicated to the long-term well-being of Bhutan 's natural resource base. The first of
its kind under GEF support, the Bhutan Trust Fundfor Environmental Conservation is today still
a young experiment in progress.
Part 1: Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
2.    Country Context. With its varied altitudinal and climatic conditions, Bhutan possesses
extremely rich biological diversity for its area. It also serves as the last refuge of many species of
flora and fauna that have vanished elsewhere in the Himalayan region due to habitat destruction
associated with a rapidly expanding human population. Determined to prevent environmental
degradation that has occurred elsewhere in the Himalayas, the Royal Government of Bhutan
(RGOB) directed that 60 percent of its land remain under forest cover, and set aside 26 percent as
protected areas. However, in the early 1 990s, RGOB faced serious financial, institutional and
human resource constraints in implementing conservation activities. To address these constraints,
RGOB in association with World Wildlife Fund (WWF-US) and United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) created the Bhutan Trust Fund (BTF) in March 1991. RGOB then sought
financing from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and other donors to capitalize the BTF.
3.    GEF Pilot Phase Objectives. The Bhutan - Trust Fund for Environmental Conservation,
funded under the pilot phase of the GEF, was both the first GEF grant (of US$10 million) for
Bhutan, and the first GEF trust fund anywhere in the world. Specific eligibility criteria of the
pilot phase of the GEF comprised: (a) global benefits, (b) innovation, (c) demonstration value
and replicability, (d) contribution to the GEF portfolio (i.e., testing particular methodologies or
protecting particular biodiversity not covered elsewhere in the GEF portfolio), (e) sustainability,
(f) monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, and (g) incremental financing requirements (i.e. costs
that cannot be economically justified from a national perspective). The pilot phase also
emphasized processes of partnership between the World Bank, UNDP, and United National
Environment Program (UNEP), participatory involvement of key stakeholders, and transparency.
The trust fund design was consistent with all of these criteria and processes.
4.    Grant Objectives. The objectives of the GEF grant as reflected in the Grant Agreement
were to:
(a)   assist the RGOB in initiating a comprehensive nation-wide environmental
conservation program and



2
(b)   test the feasibility of trust funds as a mechanism for providing long-term and
sustainable support for conservation of biodiversity.
The grant capitalized the BTF, and BTF helped finance the conservation program.
5.    Benchmarks for the Conservation Program Objective. The grant design specified
benchmarks to measure progress on the conservation program objective. These benchmarks were
conditions for release of the second tranche of GEF funds (US$ 3 million). They included:
(a)   An increase in the Nature Conservation Division staff from 53 to 127;
(b)   An upgraded curriculum for the Bhutan Forestry Institute that increases the
emphasis on wildlife, protected areas management, and community participation,
as well as overseas training for three instructors;
(c)   The development of biodiversity information system capability within the
Division of Forestry's Management Section, including (i) secondment of full-time
staff to update, computerize, and process biological and socioeconomic data, and
develop a GIS database for protected area management planning and monitoring,
and (ii) short overseas training courses for two GIS technicians;
(d)   RGOB adoption of a revised national protected areas system plan with clear
protection categories and prioritization;
(e)   RGOB issuance of official gazettement for four protected areas and operational
plans for three of these four areas;
(f)    Upgrading of Jigme Dorji Wildlife Sanctuary and Royal Manas National Park,
including completion of baseline surveys, preliminary annual work plans and
development of seven fully staffed and functioning beat offices; and
(g)   Development of one detailed management plan for a protected area that would
serve as a model for other areas.
6.    Evaluation of Conservation Program Objective. The conservation program objective
was clear and realistic, important for Bhutan and its globally-significant biodiversity, and
consistent with the World Bank's country assistance strategy for Bhutan (as articulated in 1993,
which confirmed the World Bank's pre-existing strategy of focusing on three priority areas, one
of which was natural resource management). Conceptually, the benchmarks for the objective
were neither complex nor risky, and were achievable within the capacity of RGOB, given the
Government's strong commitment to conservation. It also laid the foundation for a long-term
biodiversity conservation program in Bhutan. However, the grant design neglected to specify a
process to ensure sustained program development with new benchmarks, after the initial
benchmarks had been achieved. This was due in part to an assumption that the National
Environment Strategy and Action Plan which was expected to be completed in 1992 would
provide the framework to guide future BTF funding.
7.    Evaluation of the Trust Fund Objective. The World Bank's 1992 Asia Region
Biodiversity Strategy identified the need to pilot a trust fund mechanism, and cited Bhutan as a
appropriate place for such a pilot. However, the original grant documentation did not elaborate
on the overall trust fund objective or list explicit benchmarks. Indirectly, the documentation
referred to a few parameters that could be used to measure the achievement of the objective, such



3
as using the US$10 million of GEF financing to attract an additional US$2 million to US$10
million from other donors, and preserving the real value of the initial capital. Although there was
a projection of real rate of return (using assumptions of 1% and 3%), no performance indices for
asset management, fund flow, and financial reporting were specified. The original grant
documentation provided only a cursory description of the Board and Secretariat based on the
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), and did not provide guidance on operational
management such as job descriptions for Secretariat staff, proposal submission formats,
communications strategy, calendar of operations, procedures for communications with donors,
and processes for professional reviews of funding proposals. In short, the institutional design of
the BTF Secretariat was not fully developed with regard to its future operational responsibilities.
B. Achievement of Objectives
8.    Achievement of the Conservation Program Objective. The grant achieved all the
benchmarks associated with the conservation program objective in three years, less than the
anticipated timeframe of five years.
(a)   The Wildlife Division is now upgraded into a Nature Conservation Division with
127 staff in 1995 (and 164 staff as of September 1997).
(b)   The Bhutan Forest Institute is using a revised curriculum and its staff has received
further training.
(c)   New equipment and trained staff have strengthened the Forest Services Division's
information management facilities.
(d)   RGOB has adopted a new system of protected areas that is representative of the
country's ecosystems, comprising four national parks, four wildlife sanctuaries,
and one nature reserve.
(e)   Four protected areas have been gazetted (Royal Manas National Park, Jigme Dorji
Wildlife Sanctuary, Black Mountain National Park, and Bomdelling Wildlife
Sanctuary), inventories are underway or have been completed in four areas and
preliminary annual work plans developed for three of the four areas.
(f)   Jigme Dorji has been upgraded to a national park. Both Jigme Dorji and Royal
Manas now have complete baseline surveys and functioning management plans.
(g)   A detailed management plan for Royal Manas National Park is serving as a model
for other protected areas, e.g., Jigme Dorji and Black Mountain.
There has been a lag in following through with on-the-ground implementation after the
benchmarks were met. This lag has been due to absence of key staff due overseas training.
Table 5 lists key implementation indicators, and Annex I provides a detailed description.
9.   Impact of Conservation Program Activities. The GEF grant has laid the basic
foundation for an effective long-term conservation program in Bhutan by establishing the legal,
institutional, and technical framework, and in expanding implementation capacity. The direct
impact of the benchmark activities on biodiversity conservation, however, cannot yet be known
since implementation beyond the benchmarks has been limited. The benchmarks have had
several indirect impacts. The biophysical and socioeconomic baseline surveys and establishment
of a database for protected areas will enable monitoring and evaluation of change over time and



4
more informed decision-making for allocation of scarce human and financial resources. Socially,
the initial conservation activities incorporated community consultation and participation. The
park management planning included workshops for consultation with all stakeholders including
communities. Pilot "integrated conservation and development program" (ICDP) investments
involved participatory planning by community groups, within the framework of the existing local
government structure. Pilot ICDP activities in Royal Manas have already involved the local
women's association. The activities also established the local capacity and plans that enable
further conservation investments by other donors.
10.   Achievement of the Trust Fund Objective. The grant has helped to demonstrate the
feasibility of a trust fund mechanism that has the potential to provide long-term, sustainable
support for biodiversity conservation in Bhutan. BTF already has significant accomplishments in
the areas of conservation funding, financial management, and initial programs. and is now
addressing longer-term program development. The RGOB used the GEF grant to attract funds
from other donors who have more than matched the GEF contribution of US$ 10 million to the
BTF, and also to encourage their financing of other biodiversity programs separate from BTF. In
response to the experience of the first few years and pressure from the World Bank, the Board
made important changes in the financial reporting and investment management. Citing the Grant
Agreement's due diligence clause, the World Bank made the new financial arrangements a
condition of the release of the second tranche. The changes in financial management included the
hiring of a full-time financial officer within the Secretariat; the contracting of a professional asset
manager and custodian to ensure higher income, improved reporting, and coordinated fund flow;
and related reforms in the BTF governance structure. From its gross five-year revenue of $3.7
million, BTF funded $163,000 in Secretariat expenditures, $233,000 in fund management
expenditures, and $418,000 for four of the benchmark activities ($12,000 for in-service training,
$116,000 for Royal Manas, $227,000 for Jigme Dorji, and $13,000 for Bomdeling). Limited
investment revenue curtailed BTF programatic funding during the first three years of the grant,
while inexperience with program development and limited implementation capacity for
conservation prevented BTF from funding of new programs during the fourth and fifth years of
the grant (see Table 8C). In response, the Board has developed a draft final strategic plan that
articulates the long-term vision, the program priorities, and operational guidelines for the next
phase of BTF's institutional development.
11.   Impact of the Trust Fund Objective. The grant has helped to create a permanent, well-
capitalized institution. The creation of the trust fund has also had several indirect impacts. By
drawing attention to the importance of Bhutan's biodiversity, and to the RGOB's own
remarkable commitment to biodiversity conservation, it precipitated a salutary increase in donor
financing for biodiversity, separate from the BTF itself (see Table 8c). The experience with
financial management, governance, and the strategic plan has influenced the design of
biodiversity trust funds for other countries, and opened up the prospect of trust funds for other
sectors within Bhutan. Now that it has experience with professional asset management, the
RGOB is considering new financial arrangements for managing its foreign exchange reserves.
12.   Achievement of GEF Pilot Phase Objectives. Consistent with its design, the grant
achieved the GEF pilot phase objectives. Bhutan continues to play a significant role in helping to
maintain a larger representation of the Eastern Himalayan ecosystems and endemic species of
global significance. More than 60 percent of the land area remains under forest cover and 26
percent officially set aside as protected areas, the latter far exceeding the desired target of 10



5
percent established by International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The grant
launched the first trust fund set up under the GEF and the first demonstration anywhere of the
conservation "trust fund" concept. It has and is continuing to provide useful lessons for future
trust funds worldwide (e.g., Uganda, Peru, Brazil, Laos, etc.) and in Bhutan (e.g., health and
culture). The lessons learned that were incorporated in other GEF trust funds include asset
management arrangements, organizational/administrative structures; and benchmarks for initial
activities. Sustainability of the trust fund in perpetuity is provided by management guidelines
which preserve fund principal in real terms by disbursing only from investment income.
Bhutan's small population and limited resource base limit government resources, and hence
restricted RGOB's ability to increase the regular budget allocated for conservation. GEF/World
Bank's involvement and close collaboration among Government, NGO, and the donors during
the design and implementation of the project have been important in raising additional resources
from other donors. The grant had clearly defined monitoring benchmarks which were met. There
has been a strong and constructive partnership between the World Bank and UNDP. It was the
first GEF investment that included other donor financing and the involvement of GEF partner
agencies (e.g., UNDP) in the preparation, appraisal, negotiations, and the mid-term review. The
trust fund also established important precedents for a governance structure involving government
officials and NGOs, and for establishing procedures to ensure transparency with donors and other
stakeholders.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Grant
13.   Enabling Factors. Most of the factors affecting grant implementation were positive. The
World Bank, UNDP, WWF-US, and other donors provided strong support both in funds and in
advice. All parties, including the BTF Board, responded responsibly and flexibly to resolve the
financial reporting and investment management deficiencies that were encountered. The
importance within Bhutanese culture of maintaining good relationships and making decisions
through consensus established a constructive and warm atmosphere for all trust fund participants.
Tlhe consensus process also ensured sustained consistency in, and commitment to, the resulting
decisions. The strong ethic of integrity within the Bhutanese civil service helped to preclude or
avert the possibility of damage, perceived or otherwise, from conflicts of interest. (Inevitably,
many individuals serving on the BTF Board and in the advisory core group will submit funding
proposals to the BTF in their official roles outside of the BTF.) The RGOB's reputation for
integrity also enhanced the willingness of donors to contribute to the BTF. The grant has also
benefited from the government's environmental sector policies and commitment to biodiversity
conservation. Counterpart funding was adequate. The fact that the biodiversity of Bhutan is
relatively intact, and was not subject to unusual climatic or other crises during the initial five
years also allowed the BTF program to develop gradually. During the fifth year of the grant
when the BTF had professional asset managers, the rapid appreciation of equities, especially US
stocks, contributed to a significant increase in the total value of BTF capital assets .
14.  Inhibiting Factors. The main factor slowing grant implementation was the inexperience
of the original donor representatives, Bhutan government, BTF Board members, and BTF
Secretariat staff in biodiversity trust fund design, development, and operations. Another limiting
factor was the lack of qualified staff within Bhutan available to work on conservation. The
cultural importance of good relationships and consensus, generally a positive force, slowed the
pace at which the BTF Board identified and addressed problems. The limited time and attention



6
which the Board members could devote to BTF issues meant that they have addressed problems
sequentially as they have arisen--e.g. first achieving benchmarks, then resolving asset
management, next focusing on the strategic plan-- rather than in a carefully planned and
systematic way. The BTF Board's interaction with the Secretariat has also been limited. The
minimal staffing and lack of authority of the BTF Director to take initiatives may have kept the
BTF from reaching a broader constituency and from more quickly resolving issues associated
with the Secretariat's implementation responsibilities.
15.   Benchmark Program Costs and Financing (Actual versus Appraisal). Although
Bhutan achieved the benchmark objectives within three years, each of these initiatives involved
ongoing costs. When taking these costs into account for a five-year period, there is no significant
deviation between the total actual versus appraisal estimates of benchmark program costs in local
currency, although the US dollar value is lower due to the change in exchange rate (see Table
8A). The main deviations are in the estimated costs of establishing a national system of protected
areas and a protected areas database and GIS capabilities. The actual amounts projected under the
BTF turned out to be over-estimated because, fortuitously, much of the work on the national
system of protected areas was undertaken under the Forestry Master Plan funded by the Asian
Development Bank and for upgrading GIS capability within the Forest Resources Development
Section by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the German Government, and World
Bank-financed Bhutan - Forestry III project. Regarding financing for the conservation program,
there was much greater than anticipated contributions from donors (especially WWF) who
responded to RGOB's request for assistance when the BTF investment income was minimal
during the initial years (see Table 8B). Donor contributions included significant technical
assistance to benchmark activities to supplement limited local capacity. The US$10.5 million
from cofinanciers to capitalize the BTF also exceeded expectations at appraisal.
16.  Implementation Schedule (Actual versus Appraisal). The benchmarks were met in
three years instead of the anticipated five years due to RGOB's strong commitment and other
positive elments mentioned above. Support provided by WWF also facilitated early
implementation of the benchmarks. To ensure that the new financial arrangements were
functioning smoothly and to assure other donors that the trust fund would continue to perform
solidly, it was mutually agreed that the completion date of June 30, 1997 (and closing date of
December 31, 1997) would be maintained.
D. Sustainability
17.   Financial sustainability. With continued prudent financial management, the trust fund is
highly likely to be financially sustainable. A unique aspect of a trust fund lies in the fact that
there is a near certainty that it will produce income for program operations on a sustained basis
over the long term. A fund such as the BTF probably has better prospects for serving the long-
term conservation objectives of the RGOB than any other financial device currently in practice.
Although the annual flow of earnings from invested capital will vary from year to year
depending upon the behavior of investment markets and the performance of the BTF's asset
manager(s), the guidelines that are currently in place on preserving the capital in real terms are
expected to minimize any adverse impact on the asset value and income potential over the long
term .
18.  Institutional sustainability. BTF's institutional sustainability is likely. The strong
RGOB commitment, supportive policy environment for conservation, and financial viability of



7
the fund will help sustain the trust fund as an institution. However, BTF is still developing as an
institution, and the extent to which it reaches its full potential will depend upon
institutional/management effectiveness. Regarding stakeholder support, there is room to broaden
the range of local stakeholders (e.g., potential for one or more local NGOs to participate both as
recipient of BTF grants and possibly on the BTF Board, potential for increasing number of
government agencies receiving grants, potential to increase funding to local communities for
ICDP, etc.). BTF's program development will depend upon implementation the strategic plan
that establishes program priorities, allocates funds for recurrent costs in order to expand
implementation capacity, and plans the phasing of short-term versus long-term fund expenditure.
E. World Bank Performance
19.  Identification and Preparation. World Bank performance was satisfactory although its
involvement at this stage was minimal. RGOB officials initiated the concept, and WWF-US and
UNDP played a major and constructive role in providing assistance in terms of legal and
financial expertise in preparation. Given UNDP's proposed role as asset manager and member of
the BTF Board, to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest, the GEF Secretariat requested
that the World Bank appraise the proposed grant. World Bank processing was rapid once the
GEF mechanism was established in March 1991. World Bank staff produced a combined initial
and final executive project summary in October 1991, based on an RGOB proposal dated March
1990.
20.   Appraisal. World Bank performance was satisfactory. In the context of the time, the
World Bank mission provided adequate technical, environmental, sociological, financial, and
legal expertise and guidance. The RGOB felt that the initial financial arrangements with UNDP
provided legitimacy for the trust fund experiment that would be essential for mobilizing donor
support. Appraisal team members felt that it was politically appropriate to proceed with this
arrangement and alternative asset management options were not considered. Within the GEF,
some felt that one purpose of the grant was to test UNDP's ability to manage trust funds of this
nature with obvious possible implications for other country settings. Further, GEF pressures for
World Bank/LNDP collaboration and a rapid start-up influenced the appraisal team stance. In
retrospect, the appraisal did not devote sufficient attention to the specialized institutional and
financial management aspects associated with trust fund design. The mission did not include
anyone experienced in foundation management who might better have analyzed and helped to
shape the design of institutional policies and components. It did develop financial projections of
two scenarios indicating that the conservative investment strategy would not be sustainable after
20 years. The total amount of the GEF grant, as measured by its ability to meet the needs of
future generations, was appropriate. The GEF grant instrument was very suitable for an
investment that produced global benefits. During the appraisal mission. World Bank staff, BTF
Board members, and other donor representatives including UNDP and WWF established highly
collaborative relationships with one another.
21.   Supervision. World Bank performance was highly satisfactory. Even before the mid-term
review, World Bank missions addressed key implementation issues such as asset management,
financial reporting, format for monitoring and evaluation, and the development of a strategic
plan. Performance ratings were appropriate. Missions gave attention to biodiversity impact to the
extent feasible for initial activities. The BTF Board and Secretariat have appreciated the mission
advice and the emphasis by the World Bank on Bhutanese ownership of the trust fund. Loan



8
covenants were enforced consistently, including the due diligence clause. The World Bank was
instrumental in bringing about the necessary changes to the governance structure and financial
management arrangements, and in prompting the Board to develop a strategic plan. World Bank
staff showed flexibility, sensitivity to local situations, and practicality in suggesting and helping
develop modifications. The World Bank continued to have fairly good relations with UNDP,
although there was a period of tension due to the initial financial reporting and investment
management problems and the need to restructure. Now relations between the World Bank and
UNDP are very good. The highly collaborative relationship between the World Bank, the BTF
Board, BTF Secretariat, and WWF-US throughout the grant period helped World Bank staff to
supervise efficiently and effectively. There was excellent continuity in World Bank staffing with
only one change in task manager. The original task manager participated in the appraisal mission,
the ICR mission, and all but one of the supervision missions, either as mission leader or as
ecologist. There was a good mix of staff skills, except for the lack of a specialist in trust funds
institutions until the ICR mission. The mid-term review mission also included representatives
from RGOB, UNDP, WWF-US, and Norway. Frequently missions were timed to overlap with
BTF Board meetings and included field visits.
22.   Deviations from World Bank Policies and Procedures. There were no significant
deviations from World Bank policies and procedures during implementation, although the design
as reflected in the Grant Agreement established new precedents on how to handle procurement
and disbursement in the context of a trust fund.
F. Grantee Performance
23.   Preparation. RGOB's performance was highly satisfactory. RGOB demonstrated a high
level of initiative and commitment in developing this innovative trust fund proposal. It took a
deviation from its normal practice in signing the MOU, the governing document of the trust fund,
with a non-governmental organization, and a multilateral donor. It also arranged to obtain legal,
financial, and technical advice from WWF-US and UNDP. RGOB also actively sought out donor
support from WWF-US, GEF, and bilateral donors.
24.   Implementation. RGOB's performance was satisfactory. During implementation, RGOB
demonstrated flexibility in issuing a Royal Charter in place of the MOU in order to resolve the
financial reporting and investment management shortcomings. RGOB continued to demonstrate
commitment to conservation in implementing its sector policies. RGOB also bore 10 percent of
the incremental costs of the trust fund expenditures, and provided the counterpart financing on
time. RGOB also succeeded in obtaining additional contributions to the trust fund to ensure its
long-term financial sustainability and to extend its potential as a conservation funding
mechanism. Benchmarks were achieved as per legal covenants, in three years instead of five
years. Comprehensive monitoring and evaluation has lagged slightly, but a consistent framework
had now been developed. There is a good beginning in participation (e.g., good participatory
processes during PA planning and a few pilot investments for communities in vicinity of PAs),
but significant BTF funding is not yet flowing to local communities in and around protected
areas. Bhutan has well-functioning and long-established processes for participatory community
decision making, but guidelines for defining linkages between biodiversity and community
investments are not yet established. At the institutional level, BTF continues to have room for
continued improvement in clarifying its funding policies, adopting systematic operating
procedures, increasing communications with potential recipients and donors, time devoted by



9
BTF Board members, and overall dynamism. While institutional strengthening is expected to
materialize under the mandate of the strategic plan now being finalized, it should be recognized
that in the establishment of a trust fund, financial and asset management had to be given highest
priority in the initial stages. Program and other operational capacities are necessarily a secondary
priority. The BTF Board and Secretariat will now wish to demonstrate that their ability to
develop institutional capacity in programs and operations will equal the professional rigor with
which financial and asset management has been organized. Much remains to be done by the
Grantee to make the BTF a high-performing institution.
25.   Compliance with Legal Covenants. RGOB's performance was highly satisfactory. All
covenants were fulfilled, some ahead of schedule.
G. Assessment of Outcome
26.   The overall outcome of the grant is satisfactory. Had the strategic plan been finalized and
operational for at least six months, the outcome would have been rated highly satisfactory.
H. Plan for Future Operation
27.   Description and Evaluation. Future operations will consist of implementing the
objectives of the BTF, as given in the Royal Charter, 1996. A strategic plan, defining a set of
priority objectives, will guide the future operations. The draft final strategic plan reflects
decisions at the November 1997 BTF Board meeting. It offers a vision which connects the BTF's
role to Bhutan's national aspirations for protecting major ecosystems and habitat types; it defines
program priorities for the next five years (nature conservation/protection, biodiversity
information, and public education in conservation); it articulates goals for developing the
institutional capacity of the Trust Fund; and it establishes criteria for its grantmaking (training,
incremental staffing, and field programs). The strategic plan is consistent with the National
Environmental Strategy and the draft Biodiversity Action Plan. Preparation of the BTF strategic
plan has been a vehicle for developing a Board consensus on the direction of the BTF program.
The strategic plan defines how the BTF would fund incremental staffing for program priorities,
with specific benchmarks for staff numbers, schedule of phasing, training, and associated budget.
However, as a supplement to the strategic plan, there still is a need to specify how to build the
internal capacity of the BTF Secretariat to fulfill its mandate.
28.   Future Performance Indicators. The draft final strategic plan includes a framework for
monitoring and evaluating future trust fund performance (Annex 3). The indicators identified are
extensive and generally relevant to the task. They are, however, not prioritized, have no
quantifiable measures attached to them, and, in some cases, would benefit from placing them on
a timeline. For example, what is to be achieved in year 1, year 2, year 3, year 4, and year 5 of the
Plan? It might be useful to the Board if half-way through the five-year period, an external party
were contracted to evaluate the performance of the BTF in meeting the targets within the Plan.
29.   Recommended Follow-up by World Bank. The BTF will continue to send the World
Bank copies of each BTF annual report. The World Bank, in turn, will continue to send the BTF
documentation on the activities of environmental trust funds elsewhere in the world, as and when
it becomes available. To further strengthen continued interchange of trust fund experience, BTF
Board members have suggested that the World Bank undertake a visit focused on the BTF in the
fall of 1999. At this point in time, it appears that the earliest optimum timing of a future impact



10
evaluation by the World Bank's Operation Evaluation Department might be in 2003, after five
years experience in implementing the strategic plan. Outside of the World Bank's role, a good
case can be made for the BTF to develop a collaborative relationship with an experienced
counterpart trust fund or foundation. Such an arrangement could provide mentoring support and
would help to compensate for the fact that World Bank's supervision missions did not provide
this specialized expertise and experience.
1. Key Lessons Learned
30.   Legal framework. It is essential for trust funds to have a legal framework to
institutionalize collaboration between donors and recipients, make decision making and
implementation transparent, and make management accountable.
31.   Benchmarks. Concrete conservation program benchmarks during the first five years
served as useful incentives, as clear indicators of achievement, and as mechanisms to mobilize
donor support additional to that which was initially provided by the trust fund. It would have
been helpful if the benchmarks addressed not only conservation program achievements, but also
institutional development of the trust fund entity itself.
32.   Start-up Funding. WWF-US provided valuable support during the start-up of the
benchmark activities, separate from the uncertain investment income. During the initial period of
trust fund establishment, it is essential to have reliable funding that does not depend upon
investment income.
33.   Donor Support. RGOB's strong reputation for integrity in governance, its demonstrated
commitment to conservation, and the small size of the country (with associated support from
interested European countries) all contributed to willingness of donors to make relatively large
contributions. These conditions may limit the likelihood of replicating comparable levels of
support for trust funds in many other countries.
34.   Trust Fund Management. Establishing internationally respected asset management
arrangements and addressing financial issues immediately and openly as they may arise is
important, if not essential, to preserving donor and recipient confidence. If and when a trade-off
arises, financial issues should be addressed prior to program issues. The unique characteristics of
a trust fund should be recognized at the outset and the design and appraisal teams should include
relevant expertise in financial asset management, trust fund institutional development, and trust
fund program development. Such expertise is normally best found among senior officers working
in such organizations.
35.  ICDP. Providing trust fund support for ICDP has proved more complex than originally
anticipated. The main challenge is to define and articulate criteria for how ICDP investments can
successfully address biodiversity conservation objectives.
36.   Stakeholder Participation. BTF's experience confirms that multi-stakeholder
involvement is beneficial (e.g., WWF-US and UNDP involvement in BTF Board,
communication with donors, involvement of local people in PA management planning, etc.)
37.   Time Horizon for Evaluation. Trust fund performance should be evaluated from a long-
term perspective, taking into account the needs of future generations. It should not be evaluated
on the same basis as a traditional investment project.



11
Part II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related GEF Biodiversity Trust Fund Projects
Table 3: Grant Timetable
Table 4: Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Grant Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation (N/A)
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project (N/A)
Table 8A: Benchmark Program and Secretariat Costs
Table 8B: Benchmark Program and Secretariat Financing
Table 8C: Financing of BTF Capital
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: World Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: World Bank Resources: Missions



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives             Substantial       Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                                               x
Sector Policies                               x
Financial Objectives                          x
Institutional Objectives                                      x
Physical Objectives                           x
Poverty Reduction                                             x
Gender Issues                                                 x
Other Social Objectives                       x
Environmental Objectives                      x
Public Sector Management                                                                     x
Private Sector Development                                                                   x
Other                                                                                        x
B. Sustainability                             Likely              Unlikely             Uncertain
x
C. World Bank Performance               Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                                       x
Preparation Assistance                                               x
Appraisal                                                            x
Supervision                                     x
D. Grantee Performance                  Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                                     x
Implementation                                                       x
Covenant Compliance                             x
Operation - not applicable
F. Assessment of Outcome                   Highly       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     Highly
satisfactory                                  unsatisfactory
x



13
Table 2: Related GEF Grants
Grant Title              Purpose                         Year of       Status
Approval
1. Uganda - Bwindi       To establish a trust fund, the  January 24,    Offshore asset management
Impenetrable National Park  income from which would provide   1995     account, Trust Fund Board,
and Mgahinga Gorilla     a sustainable source of funds for             and Local Steering Committee
National Park Conservation  park management, research, and             operating. First grants have
(US$ 4 million GEF grant)  community ecodevelopment                    been awarded
activities
2. Mexico - Fund for     To establish an endowment fund to  June 1997  Approved as part of project
Natural Protected Areas  provide stable long-term financing            restructuring. Prior to
(US$ 16.3 million GEF    for basic protection and                      approval had incorporated
grant)                   conservation activities in an                 agreements on the
around 10 protected areas                     management, financial; and
administrative procedures for
operating the fund
3. Peru - National Trust  Seed money for trust fund that will  March 20,  All GEF funds disbursed to
Fund for Protected Areas    finance park management activities  1995   trust fund, with strong
(US$5.0 million GEF      including training, management                earnings and additional
grant)                   plans, and operational costs                  cofinancing. In 1997 fund
expects to channel over US$ 2
million to 13 protected areas.
Monitoring plan agreed and in
operation.
4. Poland - Biodiversity  To fund a tri-national trans-border  December 12,  Expansion of biosphere
Protection/ Slovak      trust fund to maintain the       1991,         reserve completed.
Republic - Biodiversity  coordinated management of the   September 16, Foundation established in
Protection/ Ukraine -    international biosphere reserve in   1993, and  1995. Board has met to agree
Transcarpathian          Eastern Carpathians. Funding for   July 28, 1993   on trust's objectives, define
Biodiversity Protection  ecosystem management,          respectively    work programs, and make
(US$300,000 million GEF   protection, and                              funding decisions.
grants)                  research/monitoring.
5. Brazil - Biodiversity  To capitalize a sinking fund to  April 16,   US$ 10 million of GEF grant
Fund (US$20 million GEF   financing biome-level projects  1996         disbursed to fund. Board
grant)                   identified in national workshops              appointed and Secretariat
established. Over 1000
proposals reviewed and 10
proposals selected by June
1997. Mechanisms for sub-
project funding, monitoring,
and fund raising under
development.



14
Table 3: Grant Processing Timetable
Processing Steps    Date Planned              Date Actual
Identification      N/A                        1989
Preparation         N/A                       March 20, 1990
Appraisal           October/November 1991   October/November 1991
Negotiations                                  May 5, 1992
Board presentation   January, 1992            May 21, 1992
Signing                                       May 22, 1992
Effectiveness       June, 1992                November 11, 1992
Completion          June 30, 1997             June 30, 1997
Grant Closing       December 31, 1997         December 31, 1997
Table 4: Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal estimate           7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0      10.0
Actual                       7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0      10.5    10.5
Actual as % of estimate     100%    100%    100%    100%    150%    105%
Date of final disbursement
2
Date reviews to proposal submitted by RGOB. Review of proposal by Bank did not begin until after the
March 1991 approval of the GEF pilot phase.
3
As specified in October 11, 1991 FEPS
4
As specified in the May 1992 Project Document



Table 5: Key Indicators for Grant Implementation
Program Objectives                            Implementation Indicators                Key Impacts
Objective 1: Institutional Building and Human Resource Development
(i) Reorganization and upgrading of DOF's Wildlife Division  WLD  upgraded into NCS, headed by a Management Planning and
(WLD) into a Nature Conservation Section, (NCS) headed by a Deputy Director; comprises of the said units; inventory capabilities enhanced
Joint Director and comprising of initially an Inventory and  staffed by four senior level professionals who  at NCS.
Management Planning Unit (IMPU) and an Extension Education  have advanced university degree, two mid-
Unit (ECU) at headquarters, and a Deputy Director in-charge in  level technical staff, two field-level technical Enhanced functional support to
each protected area under NCS's management.              staff and administrative staff          the operational units - protected
area management
(ii) Strengthening of DOF's data collection, storage, and  FMD's GIS facilities strengthened; - one 486  Enhanced  ability  to  monitor
monitoring  capability  to  incorporate  biological  diversity  16 MB RAM with 500 MB HD and SUGA  biodiversity change in Protected
parameters; strengthening DOF's Forest Management Division  14" Color Monitor, one color printer HP  Areas  establishment  of  a
(FMD's Geographic Information  System  (GIS); short-term  diskette 500C, one digitizing board, SUM  database.
training of existing GIS staff and new in GIS.           MIV  and one plotter HP designed 650c
added;  ARC/INFO   software  procured; Enhanced ability to incorporate
database for Royal Manas National Park and  environmental information into
Jigme  Dorji National Park  created; 3  forest  management  planning 
technician trained on GIS.              through training and provision of
survey information.
(iii) Provide support to the Bhutan Forestry Institute, Taba, (BFI)
to enable to (a) revise its curriculum to incorporate subjects such  The curriculum has been revised to include  Trainees with qualification
as wildlife conservation, protected areas management, and  nature conservation subjects and the new  required for protected areas
community relations; (b) give, in addition to the training it curriculum is taught.               management produced.
traditionally gives to forest guards, short-term refresher courses to
high-level staff on technical subjects such as park management, Refresher courses on nature conservation
ecology, wildlife, extension, buffer zone management and survey  have offered at National Resources Training  Improved quality of staff
and inventory methodologies and (c) assist its trainers in  Institute on an annual basis.         produced.
developing pedagogic skills through (i) training in such subjects
as speaking and presentation skills, and the use of teaching aids 2 trainers at the BFI have received additional Professionally conducted
and (ii) attendance, either in-country or, in some cases, within the training on nature conservation overseas.  training teaching at the BFI.
Asia region or overseas, at short-courses, seminars and workshops
on conservation and park management.                          _



Program Objectives                    I             Implementation Indicators                  Key Impacts
Objective 2: Establishment of a National System of Protected Areas
(i) Establishment of a new national system of protected areas  The old national system of protected areas has been  The revised protected
(including  national parks, wildlife  sanctuaries and  forest revised and a new system has been established.  areas system brings
resources) based on major revisions to the existing system both in                                            under legal protection
terms of area and biological diversity, and including the carrying  Biological diversity inventories and socio-economic  26 percent of land area.
out of surveys and inventories, development of categories of surveys have been carried out for the Royal Manas and
protection and procedures for official gazetting and approval the Jigme Dorji national parks.                 Official gazettement of
protected areas, official gazetting initially of four priority areas                                          the protected areas
and the preparation, in consultation with local communities and  The four priority protected areas have been gazetted  prevented the use of the
government officials, of a detailed management plan for one  officially.                                      protected areas for
gazetted area (under Part D  of the program) for possible                                                     other development
replication for other gazetted areas.                      Management plans have been drawn up for the Royal purposes.
Manas and the Jigme Dorji National Parks.
Management plans
Biological diversity inventory and socio-economic  enabled implementation
surveys for the Black Mountain national park and the  based on priority needs
Bomdelling Wildlife Sanctuary have been initiated.  and attracted additional
funding.                  a
Objective 3: Management of Selected Existing Protected Areas
(i) Strengthen the management of the two existing protected areas  Management plans have been drawn up and adopted  Community
of the Jigme Dorji Wildlife Sanctuary and the Royal Manas  for the Royal Manas and the Jigme Dorji national parks  participation in park
National Park by the Recipient to the satisfaction of the Trustee.    upon consultation of all the stakeholder.  management initiated
Demonstration   projects  involving   the   local Protection enhanced
communities in the parks' integrating conservation and  through additional staff
development have been carried out.                and improvements in
basic infrastructure.
Cottage industries develop through rural credit
schemes                                           Relationships with local
government and
Park infrastructure for the Royal Manas national park  communities improved
has been satisfactory to support the park management. through local economic
The park management is headed by a full-time senior development activities,
professional supported by 87  _  support staff.   trail improvements, and
increased interactions
between park staff and



Program Objectives                                 Implementation Indicators                  Key Impacts
For the Jigme Dorji national park, a park management communities.
system has been adopted. Park management is headed
by a full-time senior professional supported by 16 field
staff.
Management plan has been drawn up and adopted . The
community schools have been established and
improved sanitation and hygiene demonstrated.
A network of trails has been developed and under
outpost, two guard outpost under one park headquarters
have been established.
Rural  income  entering   programs  are  being
demonstrated.
Objective 4: Development of a New Protected Area (The Black MIountain National Park)
(i) Official gazetting and approval of the Black Mountain or The Black Mountain has been officially gazetted as a  Potential envvironmental
another area as new protected area.                        nationial park and Bomdelling as a wildlife sanctuary.   consequences likely to
arise from using the
Socio-economic surveys and biodiversity inventories  park area for
have been completed.                              commercial purposes
have been eliminated.
Management plan is being drawn up.
The park managemenit structure has been established
and staff assigned.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Grant Operation
Not applicable to this Grant.
Table 7: Studies Included in Grant
Not applicable to this Grant.
Table 8A: Costs of Conservation Program (July 1992 - June 1996)
Appraisal                    Actual
Local  Foreign     Total    Local  Foreign     Total
(US$ '000)
Institutional Strengthening              145      462       607      107       549      656
National System of Protected Areas       118      128       246       20        27       47
Strengthening Existing Protected Areas   341      554       895      249       532      781
New Protected Areas                      174      106       280      164       117      280
Total Baseline                       778     1250      2028      539    1,224    1,763
Physical Contingencies            30       60       90
Price Contingencies               47       95      142
Total Project Cost                   886     1405      2260      539    1,224    1,763



19
Table 8B: Financing of Conservation Program (July '92 - June '96)
Appraisal                       Actual
Local   Foreign     Total     Local   Foreign      Total
(US$ '000)
Bhutan Trust Fund       796       270       1066       311       107        418
WWF-US                     0       698       698          0       943       943
RGOB                     89          0        89       228        -55       173
Other Donors               0       407       407         0       229        229
Total               885       1405      2260       539      1,224     1,763
Note:    The allocation of local and foreign costs in appraisal document financing table
not consistent with the appraisal document cost tables. This table therefore has
recalculated appraisal estimates for the allocation between local and foreign
in the financing table.
Table 8C: Financing of BTF Capital (July 1992 - June 11996)
(US$ '000)
Appraisal                              Actual
Total      FY92/93  FY93/94  FY94/95  FY95196  FY96/97   Total
GEF                           10,000         7,000        0        0         0    3,000    10,000
WWF-US                         1,000         1,000        0        0         0         0    1,000
Netherlands                    1,000          948         0       52    1,455         0    2,455
Norway                                        587       470      512         0      440    2,009
Finland                                         0         0       10        20        0        30
Switzerland                                     0         0        0    2,586         0    2,586
Denmark                                         0         0        0         0    2,334    2,334
Bhutan                                         48       126        0         0        0       174
Cumulative Total           12,000         9,583   10,179   10,753   14,814   20,588   20,588
Revenue                        1,200          119       540      455       716     1,921     3751
Program Expenditures           1,066           46       137        2        17       11       213
Secretariat Expenditures        354            25        28       27        25       32      3964
Fund Management Expenditures                    0        17       10        18      205       250
Other Adjustments                               0         0        0        42       22        64
Net Revenue                  -220           48       358      416       614     1651      3087
Cumulative Net Revenue       -220           48       406      822      1436     3087      3087
Total Fund Balance         11,780         9,631   10,585   11,575   16,250   23,675   23,675
Notel: Secretariat Expenditures during FY92/93 included Fund Management Expenditures
Note2: Other Adjustments include depreciation on fixed assets and exchange rate adjustments



20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The total benchmark conservation program from July 1992 to June 1997 cost roughly
Nu 58 million or US$1.8 million. Although this is a conservative estimate, it is on the lower side
of conventional donor-funded conservation investments with similar scope of activities
demonstrating the relative cost-effectiveness of expenditures associated with achieving the
benchmarks. In contrast the project to strengthen management of one national park--Jigme Dorji-
-will cost US$2.54 million over five years. The careful use of foreign technical assistance on an
as needed basis lowered the overall cost. Costs also kept pace with a slowly growing
implementation capacity minimizing the likelihood of waste.



21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Text             Covenant       Status   Description of covenant                  Comments
Reference     Class
GET           3.01 (a)       10            C         Carry out project in accordance with the  In compliance
implementation program including joint  & on schedule
mid-term review
3.02          3              C         Make proceeds of the GET Grant          In compliance.
available for use by BTF for purposes of
the program in accordance with and
subject to the terms and conditions
4.01 (b)       I             C         Maintain records and accounts and       In compliance.
furnish Trustee report of audit after six
months or upon request
4.02 (b)       9             C         Furnish Trustee progress reports        In compliance.
6.01 (a)      2, 3           C         Amend MOU to activate BTF at US $9    In compliance.
million level and could invade principal
if above US$ 8.5 million
6.01 (b)      3              C         Received other contributions first to   In compliance.
activate BTF
6.01 (c)      5, 10          C         Appoint PC and establish office with    In compliance.
staff
6.01 (d)      5, 10          C         Upgrade WLD to NCS and appoint head  In compliance.
staff
Schedule 5    10             C         Actions required prior to release of 2nd   In compliance
tranche                                 & ahead of
schedule.
Status:  C      - Complied with
CD      - Compliance after delay
NC      - Not complied with
SOON   - Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP      - Complied with partially
NYD    - Not yet due.
Covenant Class
I       Accounts/audit
2       Financial performance I generate revenue from beneficiaries
3       Flow and utilization of project funds
4       Counterpart funding
5       Management aspects of the project or its executing agency
6       Environmental covenants
7       Involuntary resettlement
8       Indigenous people
9       Monitoring, review, and reporting
to     Implementation
11      Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12      Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action



22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There were no significant deviations from World Bank policies and
procedures during implementation, although the design as reflected
in the Grant Agreement established new precedents for how to
handle procurement and disbursement in the context of a trust fund.
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle         Planned        Revised          Actual
Weeks   US$  Weeks   US$  Weeks    US$
Preparation to appraisal                                             14.1    45.6
Appraisal                                                             5.4    17.9
Negotiations through grant approval                                   1.9    6.1
Supervision                                                          33.9   173.3
Completion                            14.5   67.5    17.1   61.5    14.4    58.6
Total                                                                69.7   301.5



23
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance rating
Stage of        Month/        No. of     Days    Specialized   Implemen   Develop-          Types of
processing        year        persons   in field   staff skills     tation      ment        problems
represented     status    objectives
Appraisal           10/91          4          14    A, FA,E, L
Administrative
SPN                 5/93           2          4      E,FA               2           1      Financial
SPN                 4/94           2          11     E,FA               2           1      Financial
SPN/MTR             4/95           3          8      E,FA,EL            S          HS       Financial
SPN                 11/95          2          4      E,FA               S          HS       Financial
SPN                 5/96           1          3      E                  S          HS       Financial
SPN                 11/96          3          8      EC, E, FA.         S          HS       Financial
SPN                 5/97           1          4      EC.                S          HS      Programming
SPN/ICR             10/97          3          14     EC,E,TFS           S          HS       Programming
A       Anthropologist
EC:    Economist
E:      Ecologist
FA:    Financial Analyst
EL:    Environmental Lawyer
L:     Lawyer
TFS     Trust Fund Specialist






25
Annex 1: Achievement of Conservation Program Objective
I.   In meeting all the benchmarks, the grant has satisfactorily met its conservation program
objective of initiating a comprehensive nation-wide environmental conservation program.. It has
established a legally-recognized comprehensive system of protected areas covering 26 percent of
the total area of Bhutan and incorporated a wide range of representative ecosystems and
important biodiversity. This means that these areas will not, for the foreseeable future, face
pressures for large-scale development and will be the focus of conservation investments. The
official gazettement of four priority protected areas (PA) also means that local economic
development within the PA should be consistent with the objectives of the PA and effort is
underway through pilot integrated conservation and development activities to reconcile the needs
of local communities with the need to protect and sustainably manage the important biodiversity.
The upgrading of the Nature Conservation Service--through additional staff and training--is
expected to provide the institutional support to carry-out conservation activities on the ground.
Likewise , the development of a protected areas database should enable careful monitoring and
evaluation of the impact of field activities and provide decision-makers with more accurate
information to direct future action and funding.. The expansion of curriculum to include
environmental conservation at the Bhutan Forestry Institute which provides one-year training for
forest guards and at the Natural Resources Training Institute which provides 3-year training for
extension staff has increased the awareness of staff to conservation issues. This and future
generation of staff working on renewable natural resources are expected to be better aware of and
equipped to address sustainable natural resources management. Likewise, the incorporation of
environmental and other data (e.g., socioeconomic) into forest management plans is already
ensuring that critical wildlife habitats in production forests which are outside of PAs will not be
disturbed.
2.    However, actual impacts of the conservation program on biodiversity, that is, leading to
the maintenance or increase in critical species or habitats, are uncertain since such impacts
require several years to realize and full-scale field implementation has just begun. The grant has
only established the foundations of a long-term conservation program and implementation on-
the-ground has only just began. Given the continued and high commitment of RGOB to
environmental conservation, the prognosis continues to be good, albeit slow for the next five
years.
3.    The lag in following through with on-the-ground implementation after the benchmarks
were met is largely due to limited implementation capacity hampered by key NCS and park
management staff being trained overseas. More than half of the key staff were away on either
Masters or PhD training. This meant less than optimal use of the increased forest guards and
rangers in the field (e.g., Manas and Jigme Dorji) and infrastructure as well as ineffective build
up and inefficient coordination of activities by the NCS (e.g., data management). Although a
database system has been developed, NCS still lacks the staff and technical know-how to operate
the system. In addition, the existing plan to establish a separate GIS and data management
capability within NCS rather than consolidate with FRDS could lead to duplication, inefficient
use of scarce staff, and perpetuate the weak linkage between protection and production activities.
Slow and ad hoc implementation is not expected to improve in the short-term since several key



26
staff are still abroad and weak institutional capacity to manage an increasing portfolio of donor-
funded projects. This is exacerbated by incentives which promote obtaining advanced degrees
first rather than practical field experience through on-the-job training. To address the capacity
constraint, the BTF strategic plan gives priority to carefully phased human resources
development to strengthen implementation capacity, ensure quicker on-the-ground results and
thus promoting more efficient use of scarce resources.
4.    The attached Annex 1 Table provides a detailed breakdown of actual and appraisal costs
and financing of the conservation program.



ICR Annex 1 Table: Conservation Program Costs and Financing (July 1992 - June 1997)
('000 Nu)
Program Activities                                                                       Actual Costs and Appraisal Estimates
BTF                   WWF                     RGOB                 Other Donors                TOTAL
Actual   Appraisal   Actual       Appraisal   Actual   Appraisal       Actual       Appraisal   Actual   Appraisal
ORIGINAL PROGRAMS
Institutional Building & HRD
Reorganization/upgrading of WLD into NCS             0      5,382      5,792          464      2,676        747          7,800 lij    3,734    16,268    10,327
BFI In-service Training                           418       1,416      2,992             0          0       644              0             0     3,410       2,060
Data-base Set-up                                     0      1,931      2,620             0          0       644              0 /21    2,369      2,620       4,944
Subtotal                                           418      8,729    11,404           464       2,676     2,035          7,800        6,103    22,298    17,331
National System of Protected Areas                         0      3,451      1,584           541          0      3,502              0 [31        0      1,584      7,494
Management of Two Protected Areas
Royal Manas                                      3,945      5,562      8,111          541      2,058      4,197              0          644    14,114    10,944
Jigme Dori                                       9,439      5,511      2,229          644        759      5,794              0 /4/    1,803    12,427    13,752
Subtotal                                        13,384    11,073    10,340           1,185      2,817      9,991             0        2,447    26,541    24,696
Black Mountain National Park Plan                          0      4,197      4,943 [5]       103        376      2,446              0 [6]    1,931      5,319      8,677
NEW PROGRAMS
Bomdeling Wildife Santuary                        426           0      3,390             0          0          0             0 ;-j         0     3,816           0
Phibsoo Wildlife Sanctuary                           0          0       391              0          0          0             0             0       391           0
Subtotal                                           426          0      3,781             0          0          0             0             0      4,207          0
Total Program                                         14,228    27,450    32,052           2,293      5,869    17,974 [8       7,800        10,481    59,949    58,198
[I] Dutch funding oftraining Nu 7,180,000 and Swiss - I PhD forNu. 680                [5] Includes establishment of a Nature Study Center
[2] Dutch funding Biodiversitq Conser%ation Project continues database establishment  [6] Implementation to be funded by the Dutch Project of which 40% ofthe 86 5 million Nu. will be for Black Mst
[3] Significant work done under Forestr) Sector Master Plan funded by ADB.            [7] lmplementation to be funded by Danish Goverminent of approimatelv USS 1.5 million
[4] GEF Funded Project of UJSS2.47 million to strenthen management of Jigme Dorji to start October 1997  [8] Includes contnbuted use of office space.






29
Annex 2: Achievement of Trust Fund Objective
1.    Background on World Bank Support. The World Bank had never before financed
endowment capital for a trust fund. In 1992, the World Bank Asia Region produced "Conserving
Biological Diversity: A Strategy for Protected Areas in the Asia-Pacific Region". This strategy
specifically noted that trust funds provide a guaranteed, long-term flow of financial resources for
conservation, which would help cover the costs of operating and managing protected areas on a
long-term basis. Trust funds could help poor countries that have government commitment but
low absorptive capacities and limited budgets, particularly for recurrent expenditures. Given the
amount of capital needed and relatively small annual flows, trust funds would be most
appropriate for small poor countries, or for the protection of individual sites of global
significance. The strategy specifically mentioned Bhutan as an appropriate place for piloting a
trust fund mechanism.
2.    Original Financial Management Arrangements. The initial financial management
arrangements for the BTF Secretariat to account for funds received from UNDP and disbursed to
implementing agencies were not adequate for BTF's purposes. This led to many problems in the
initial years. BTF's accounting system and information needs from UNDP for financial reporting
should have been more clearly describe. An outline of BTF's basic accounting procedures fro
accounting staff to follow, and the type and format of regular information required from UNDP
should have been agreed with UNDP to ascertain if UNDP could comply therewith before
finalizing arrangements with UNDP. BTF's original accounting staff were part time and had only
the most basic knowledge of accounting. They were part time and had only the most basic
knowledge of accounting. They were neither familiar with UNDP procedures nor trained in
BTF's consolidated financial reporting requirements for Board, donor and annual audit purposes.
The UNDP Treasury remitted income from BTF's investments to the Secretariat in Thimphu
through the UNDP Thimphu Office on and "advance" or imprest fund basis. The Secretariat in
turn disbursed the funds to the implementing agencies, and reported back to the UNDP. The
implementing agencies submitted technical and financial progress reports on the BTF Secretariat.
The Secretariat published an annual report that included a consolidated financial statement and a
summary of the technical reports. The Secretariat encountered problems in obtaining timely and
complete financial information to enable it to produce consolidated financial statements, largely
because UNDP was not experienced in managing assets for an external client and because the
fund flow arrangements bypassed the Secretariat. UNDP and the Secretariat did not receive
timely reports on actual program expenditures from implementing agencies, nor did the
Secretariat consistently receive a complete financial information on investment income and net
disbursements from UNDP in a timely fashion. As a result, in the initial years, the Secretariat and
the Board were frequently not sure of how much investment income was available for program
funding. Due to its unfamiliarity with asset management, the BTF Board decided during project
design to adopt a very conservative investment strategy. At this stage the Board was not
concerned that UNDP's own financial regulations restricted BTF investment to secured
instruments such as bonds. However, Board concern grow when the return to investment was
minimal.



30
3.    Changes in Financial Management. To resolve the problems in financial reporting,
fund flow, and low returns, the Board constituted a Finance Committee in 1994 to advise on the
selection of an asset manager, and the drawing up of investment management and custodial
contracts. The Finance Committee comprised the RGOB Ambassador to the United Nations, the
Head of the UNDP Treasury Section, and the WWF-US Director of Conservation Finance.
Although the original conditions for the release of the second tranche did not specifically address
the issue of financial management, at the mid-term review in 1995, the World Bank decided to
add new and improved financial arrangements as a condition for the release, including the
appointment of a suitably experienced local accountant to maintain BTF's accolnting records
and systems and to facilitate timely financial reporting and preparation of the annual financial
statements. The Board reviewed proposals from five short-listed investment firms, taking into
consideration the firms' track records and management fees and BTF's investment strategy
guidelines In 1996 it selected Mees Pierson as the investment manager and CoreStates Bank,
N.A. as the custodian. In consultation with the donors, the Board decided to replaced the MOU
with a Royal Charter in 1996, in order to reflect these new financial arrangements. The World
Bank hired Braehead Treasury Management, Montreal to review the strategy and performance of
Mies Pierson. In response to the Braehead report, the Finance Committee developed several
recommendations related to performance measures and monitoring, which the Board adopted at
its May 1997 meeting.
4.    Current Financial Reporting Arrangements. Mies Pierson now provides a quarterly
performance report to the Board and meets with the Board annually. The CoreStates Bank also
provides quarterly reports to the Board, and monthly reports to the Finance Committee. Both the
Finance Committee and the Secretariat review the quarterly reports. The Finance Committee also
screens the portfolio on a monthly basis to ensure that none of the firms have poor environmental
records. The Secretariat's full time financial/accounting officer who maintains BTF accounting
records and systems also prepares the operational, programmatic and consolidated financial
statements. The Secretarial should arrange before the end of each fiscal year for Mees Pierson to
provide the Royal Audit Authority of Bhutan (RAA) with a report certified by Mees Pierson's
auditors showing the investments and cash held by Mees Pierson at June 30th each year, to
satisfy RAA's audit requirements.
5.    Fund Flow and Progress Reporting. The BTF Secretariat draws funds from the
Custodian in accordance with the approved work plan and budget, and disburses them to
implementing agencies. The implementing agencies submit quarterly technical and financial
reports to the Secretariat. There is an annual financial audit. The Secretariat produces an annual
report which includes the technical progress summaries and audited financial statements.
6.    Levels of Investment Capital and Income. Original capital during the first three years
of operation was less than US$ 10.8 million. With increased donations in the fourth and fifth
year, by total donated capital totaled US $20.6 million by June 30, 1997. Under UNDP's
management, the capital produced an investment income of about US$ 120,000 (1.2%) in
FY92/93, and US$400,000 -US$700,000 (4-5%) in the next three years. Under the new financial
management arrangements and the bull market worldwide, the investment income net of fees
reached US$ 1.7 million (8.3%) during the fifth year. For details see Table 8C.



31
7.    Original Governance Arrangements. Originally the BTF was governed by a 1991
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), under which the UNDP was the Trustee as well as the
Investment Manager. BTF paid accounting and asset management fees to the UNDP. At that
time, the Management Board had five members: the WWF and the UNDP appointed one
member each, and the RGOB appointed three members. The three RGOB elected the
chairperson. All members elected the member secretary and the treasurer. A Program
Coordinator headed the BTF Secretariat. The Board met twice each year and decisions were
adopted by a four-fifths majority. A quorum of four-fifths of the members could meet and
transact business. Full Board participation by unanimous vote was required for decisions related
to the expansion of Board membership, the investment of Trust Fund principal, and any change
in Board rules.
8.    Changes in Governance. Under the Royal Charter, 1996, the Board now constitutes six
members. Five are from RGOB and one is from WWF-US. The UNDP resident representative
participates on the Board as an ex officio. Membership of WWF-US and participation of the
UNDP Resident Representative will be only for five years from the date of issue of the Charter.
After that date, members of the Board will be all Bhutanese including members from the private
sectors and non-governmental organizations. The Board is responsible for investment
management contracts, custodian contracts, works plans, budget, strategy, and fund raising. It
serves as the BTF trustee. The RGOB members select the chairman, and the Director of the
Secretariat serves as ex-officio Member Secretary. Four fifths of the members constitute a
quorum, and utilization of the trust fund requires support from at least five members.
9.    Core Group. The Core Group functions as an advisory group to the BTF Secretariat. It is
comprised of working-level staff in various agencies (mostly government, but also including
representatives from UTNDP, WWF, and RSPN (a local NGO).
10.   Original BTF Operational Programming. At the outset, the BTF program focused on
the benchmark activities. The low level of investment income net of the UNDP management fees
limited the funding available during the first year. In response the Board and Secretariat
mobilized funding from other sources, primarily WWF and the Bhutan government. The
available BTF funds were used to fill in funding gaps. Both the Board and Secretariat focused
their attention on meeting the benchmarks during the initial three years and on rearranging the
investment management during the fourth year. During these four years they did not focus on the
longer-term issue of on how to best use the available BTF income. Although the BTF Secretariat
solicited additional proposals, inexperience and limited implementation capacity curtailed the
number of proposals received.
11.   Strategic Plan Development. Once the initial benchmarks were met, and the BTF was
operating under the 1996 Charter, the BTF Secretariat, Core Group, and Board turned their
attention to developing a strategic plan. The strategic plan is intended to articulate the vision,
objectives and operational framework for the BTF, beyond the general principles outlined in the
Charter. The draft final strategic plan builds upon the objectives outlined in the Charter, the 8th
Five year Plan Conservation Program, and the Environmental Strategy for Bhutan. It also
provides a standard format for proposals, for monitoring, and for developing capacity in proposal
design. Furthermore, it is explicitly tackling the issue of limited implementation capacity. The
plan allocates a portion of BTF funds for targeted support for human resource development in



32
biodiversity, and for costs of incremental staff. Beginning in late 1996, the Secretariat, in
consultation with the BTF Core Group and BTF Board members, developed a series of iterative
draft texts. The BTF Core Group held several workshops to discuss various early texts, the May
1997 World Bank supervision mission further discussed views and texts, and the Board
considered a full draft document at its May 1997 meeting. Board members have submitted a
variety of comments since then, and met in November 1997 to resolve outstanding issues and
finalize the plan.
12.  Impact of the Trust Fund Objective. The grant has helped to create a permanent, well-
capitalized institution. The creation of the trust fund has also had several indirect impacts. By
drawing attention to the importance of Bhutan's biodiversity, and the RGOB's commitment to
biodiversity, it precipitated a dramatic increase in donor financing for biodiversity, separate from
the BTF itself. See Annex 2 Table. The experience with investment management, governance,
and the strategic plan has influenced the design of biodiversity trust funds for other countries,
and opened up the prospect of trust funds for other sectors within Bhutan. One indirect impact
has been the increased experience and sophistication of senior RGOB officials related to
financial asset management in general, which they are now applying in their management of
RGOB foreign exchange reserves.



ICR Annex 2
Table: Estimated other donors' contribution in biodiversity and environment programs of Bhutan during 1992/93-2001/02
(US$ in millions)
SI.No.   Donors                Estimated Annual Contributions in 7FYP            I        Estimated Projection of Annual Contributions in 8FYP
1           1 1992/93   11993/94   11994/95   11995/96   11996/97  |FY Total 1997/98   11998/99    1999/2000     2000/01   12001/02   IFY Total
1. Denmark          0.352      0.353      0.352      0.352     0.353    1.762      2.352       2.353         2.353      2.352      2.353   11.763
2. GEF 6-                          -          -      0.066     0.099    0.165       0.385      0.346         0.300      0.300      0.300    1.631
3 Netherlands           -      0.106      0.159      0.095     0.114    0.474       0.381      0.380         0.380      0.381      0.381    1.903
Estimate includes DANIDA's support to National Environment Commission during 7FYP and its allocation for Environment Sector Support Program in 8FYP.
6
Included in the estimate are GEF's support to Green House Gas Emission Project and Jigme Dorji National Park.
7
Contributions of SNV and SCF/US are added together with Netherlands input to the Integrated Sustainable Development Program (ISDP) in Zhemgang
Dzongkhag in terms of Forestry and Wildlife Management Program. Netherlands contribution to Biodiversity Project in the 8FYP including Institutional
Strengthening of Nature Conservation Section and Black Mountain National Park Management Program has also been included in the estimate.



SI.No. J  Donors  I           Estimated Annual Contributions in 7FYP                    Estimated Projection of Annual Contributions in 8FYP
1           11992/93   11993/94   11994/95   11995/96   11996/97 TFY Total 1997/98   11998/99   11999/2000    12000/01  12001/02  7FY Total
4. Norway              -          -          -         -      0.020    0.020         -
5- Switzerland     0.928      0.928      0.928     0.928      0.928    4.640                      -          -           -                  -
6. WWF             0.198      0.170      0.390     0.266      0.252    1.276     0.585       0.451        0.476          -          -   1.512
7 UNDP             0.102      0.811      0.346     0.207     0.150    1.616      0.119       0.118        0.118      0.119     0.119    0.593
Total            1.580      2.368      2.175     1.914     1.916    9.953      3.822      3.648         3.627      3.152     3.153   17.402
8
Includes only Norway's funding of a post graduate course for NCS.
9
Includes Helvetas contribution to the establishment of Natural Resources Training Institute (NRTI) in Lobesa, Thimphu Dzongkhag and its funding for 4 Ph D
courses for the Ministry of Agriculture.
10
Estimate include WWF's general conservation budget and its support to the Royal Manas National Park
11
Only UJNDP's support to Institutional Development of Forestry Services Division and Jigme Dorji National Park has been included.



ICR Annex 3
BTF Program Performance Indicators
Expected         Impact evaluation         Specification of     Specification and Level of     Expected Program        Specification of    Specification
Program           Program            measurement          Possible Programs or             inputs                    Outputs             Implementation       of Areas        Program Risks
Objective          Impact                                        process                                                                    Indicators
Objective ( i): To strengthen protection and management of the protected natural areas for the conservation of genetic, species and
ecosystem  diversity.
Increase capacity  Increased       Number of operational     Building an effective   Recurrent expenditure       More trained staff        More staff          Protecting rare  Inadequate
at field level. of   implementation    plans implemented     administrative and                                                            employed            and             incremental
park staff and the   of field                                management              Logistic support and        Effective administrative                      endangered      staffing
community. for    programs          Poaching and other       mechanism               cquipment                   mechanism in place        Capacity building    species and
protection and                      illegal activities                                                                                     programs            their habitats   Inadequate funding
management of                       controlled               Increasing field        Staff training              Linkage between the       undertaken
those parks                                                  staffing                                            NCS and field units                           Management   Iack of
which have                          Administrative set up                            Local community                                       Implementation of  of different     commitment for
management                          strengthened number of    Designing HRD and      participation               Institutionalized         antipoaching        zones.          incremental
plans                               staff increased and      training programs                                   community participation    programs                           staffing from FSD
capacity developed                               Participation of Dzongkhag                                                Institutional
Institutionalizing     Administration                                         Park staff resident   development    Change in policy     w
Implementation of        community                                                                     ratio
capacity building        participation           FSD initiative                                                            Community
activities                                                                                             Conflict resolution   development
RCSC emploving
Increase skilled staff                           incremental technical                                 Communitv           Conservation
administrative and                                    participation       regards
Timel) progress report                           accounting staff
Qualified
Community involvement                                                                                  technical staff
in park management                                                                                     posted



Expected         Impact evaluation        Specification of     Specification and Level of    Expected Program        Specification of    Specification
Program          Program             measurement         Possible Programs or             inputs                   Outputs             Implementation       of Areas       Program Risks
Objective         Impact                                        process                                                                  Indicators
Increase capacity  Increased       Number of conservation    Nominating staff for  Training Costs              More trained planners     Number of staff    Community       Lack of staff for
for planning     number of         and development plans    training                                                                     under training     development   training
conservation and   conservation and   produced                                                                 More plans produced                          planning
development      development                                Training staff                                                              Institutions
programs at Park   plans produced    Number of staff at Park                                                                             identified         Conservation
Management.                        Management Nature        Identi fying institutes                                                                         planning
Dzongkhag                          Conservation and                                                                                      Increased capacity
Administration                     Dzongkhag                Incremental staff                                                            for planning
and Nature                         Administration levels
Conservation                      trained
levels
ay



Expected        Impact evaluation        Specification of    Specification and Level of   Expected Program       Specification of   Specification
Program          Program           measurement         Possible Programs or            inputs                   Outputs           Implementation      of Areas       Program Risks
Objective         Impact                                      process                                                                Indicators
Develop and      Reduced          Budget being spent on   Involvement of         Functional and technical   Timely progress report   Practical plan    Policy          Lack of planning
implement        negative         time                    stakeholders in        support by NCS                                                                        experiences
practical        environmental                            planning                                          No backlog of budget    Implementation as  Strategy
operational      impact           Translating the plan into                     Inputs from park staff                               planned                           Lack of technology
conservation and   Economic       actions                 Information gathering.                            Minimum negative                           Building
development      progress of the    Less conflicts between  analysis and        Inputs and support from     environmental impacts in   Support and     collaboration    Lack of data- base
plans for the    communities      Park Management and     application            stakeholders              the field                inputs received
protected areas                   stakeholders                                                                                      from NCS, Park     Species and     Lack of capacity to
within the                                                Matching plan with the  Access to technology      Reduced poaching and     staffand          habitat        implement
available                         Poaching and illegal    need and capacity to                             illegal activities        stakeholders      conservation
planning and                      activities controlled   implement the plan    Ilitiatives by park                                                                    Demotivated staff
implementation                                                                   management                 Organized involvement of  Collaboration    Community
capacity                          Preparation of operational  Designing and                                 community and other      between NCS.      development    Poor extension
plans                   implementing anti-    Appropriate policy and     stakeholders in the       Park staff and                   services
poaching and other    legislative support        planning and             stakeholders
Park management         protection program                               implementing of the                                        Uninterested
established                                                               protection and           Number of                        community
[)esigning and                                   management programs      operational plans
TimelyI flou of finds   implementing                                                              drawn and
conservation                                     Community development  implemented
community and
development programs                                                      Frequency of
patrolling
Strengthening
conservation                                                              Research
management
Integrated
conservation and
commuinity.
developmenit
programs
undertaken 



Expected        Impact evaluation         Specification of    Specification and Level of    Expected Program       Specification of    Specification
Program          Program            measurement         Possible Programs or            inputs                    Outputs           Implementation       of Areas       Program Risks
Objective         Impact                                       process                                                                 Indicators
Build capacity to   Minimized     Potential environmental    Biodiversity inventory   Recurrent expenditure   Management plans         More staff         Conservation    Inadequate staffing
draw up and      negative         consequence avoided      and socioeconomic                                                           employed           research
implement        environmental                             surveys                Incremental staff          Management system                                           Lack of funds
management       impact and       Community development                                                                                Functioning park    Community
plans. develop   community        niodels demonstrated     Management Planning   Training staff              Administrative            management         development
infrastructure   development                                                                                 set up                    system
and set up       through                                   Building capacity      Community/stakeholders
management       sustainable use                                                  participation              Trained and skilled staff   Increased staff
systems for those  of natural                              Creating park                                                               strength
protected areas    resources                               admniistrative set up                             Progressive communities
which do not                                                                                                                          Implementationi of
have                                                       Developing                                         Institutional community    capacity building
infrastructure                                             management system                                 participation and official   activities
management set                                                                                               gazettment
up and
management
plans
Develop          Increased        Stake holder involvement  Co-ordination between   NCS support initiatives  Effective implenientationi  Involvement of   Workshop and   Sectoral approaches
coordination.    involvemenlt of   in management and       with differenlt                                   of integrated conservation   com0munIities and    meeting
collaboration and  all stakeholders   protection           stakeholders           Park                       developmenit programs    I)zongkhag                         Poor
joint                                                                             Managemiienit initiatives                            Adminiistrationi in   Stakeholder    commiiunlicationi and
implementation    hivolve local   Local communiity         institutionalized                                 Participatory            the                 participation    extension
mechanisms wyith  communities in   participation           consultation           Dzongkhag Administration    implementationi of      implementation of  through local
the resident     minimizing                                                       inputs                     integrated conservationi    integrated       consultation   Power strtggle
communities,     environmental    Co-ordination and Joint    Promoting broader                               and development projects  conservation
including        consequences     impleementation          participation          Communiity participation.                           development         Local          Iiadequate
Dzongkhag        through          mechanism developed                                                        Redressal of socio-      programs            institutional    maniagemilenit policy
Administrations.  community       and adopted                                                                economic development                         developmenlt   guiidel ines
to plan,         development                                                                                 needs throughi            Commiuniities and
implement and    programs                                                                                    consultation             other stakeliol der
manage                                                                                                                                inputs
conservation and                                                                                             Joint implemnentation of
development                                                                                                  conservation programs    Less conflict with
programs in the                                                                                              adopted                  stakeholders
protected areas                                                                                                                       Sot
_                                              j                                                       lpleSmoothi
__________________  _________________ j __________________________ ________________________ j         implementationatioi



Expected        Impact evaluation        Specification of    Specification and Level of   Expected Program       Specification of    Specification
Program          Program           measurement         Possible Programs or            inputs                   Outputs           Implementation      of Areas       Program Risks
Objective         Impact                                      process                                                                Indicators
Provide          Effective       Number of management    Strategic Planninig    Training NCS staff         Trained staffproviding   NCS organized by   Management   Poor coordination
specialized     functional        plans written                                                            for specialized support  Units and headed    planning      mechanism
functional       support to Park                          Institutionalizing     Reorganizing/                                      by appropriate
support and co-    Management     Information supply      linkage between NCS.   strengthening NCS         Plan prepared            staff              Information    Inappropriate staff
ordination to                                             FSD, MOA                                                                                     management.   employed
individual                        Research publication                           Functional mandate of NCS   Strengthening of       Improved           Conservation
Park                                                      Park management and   to field units defined     information system       information        research
Management by                     Institutionalized support   stakeholders                                                          system
NCS                               to management of                               Infonration supply         Co-ordination mechanism                    Policy
biodiversit% at the field  Workshops and                                 put in place             Improved           development
level                   training               Formiulation of                                    interaction
management plan           Specialized support to   between NCS,       Inter-agency
T'raining support       Building inter-agency                            integrated conservation  FSD and other      coordination
consultation mode                                and development. co-     stakeholders
ordinate training
Developing invenitor                             programs
methodology                                                               Support to
research and
developmenit
programs
Improved working
relation and
I likages



Expected         Impact evaluation          Specification of     Specification and Level of     Expected Program         Specification of    Specification
Program           Program             measurement          Possible Programs or              inputs                     Outputs            Implementation        of Areas        Program Risks
Objective          Impact                                         process                                                                     Indicators
Objective (ii): To develop and manage an information system to strengthening biodiversity conservation by strengthening conservation
and development programs planning and monitoring biodiversity changes overtime.
Increase capacity   An information    Use of analysed         Procuring data          Incremental staff            Trained staff              Recruitment of      Biodiversity    Lack of incremental
for socio-        system useful     information to make       management tools and                                                            incremental staff    information    staff
economic          for conservation   informed conservation    strengthening data      Trainingg                    Employed information
surveys,          planning          decisions                 management facilities                                technologist               Procurement of      Socio-          Lack of initiative to
biodiversity                                                                          Satellite imniegery                                     hardware and        economic data  develop and
inventory. and    Rational          An information system     Procuring softwares to                               Information management   software                              information system
setting up        decision making   with data on all the      store. process and      Incremental staffing         system                                         Physical
information                         protected areas           analyse data.                                                                   Availability of     information
management                                                                           1Traininig staff              Research stations          analyzed
system at the                       Capacity to manage the    Setting up an                                                                   information for     Inventory
Nature                              information system        informiation            Aerial photos                Number of inventories      decision making     methodology
Conservation                                                  management system                                    and surveys
Section                                                                                                                                       Soc:o-economlic    Improving
survey              hardware anid
softwvare
B3io-diversitv      facilities 
inlvenitory
NBiodiversit\
Nationial          inventorv
hierbariumii
developmncit        Socio-
economnice
Bio-diversitv       surveys
researchi



Expected        Impact evaluation        Specification of     Specification and Level of   Expected Program        Specification of    Specification
Program          Program            measurement         Possible Programs or            inputs                   Outputs            Implementation       of Areas       Program Risks
Objective         Impact                                       process                                                                 Indicators
Step up capacity   Sharing of     Information available for   Incremental staffing  Employing information    An information system    Regular in-country   GIS/remote    Expensive
at NCS for       information      required use             and training           technologist                                        meetings and       sensing         technology
organizing.      locally.         Infornation generated                                                      Hard copies of           participation in   technology
storing,         regionally and   and shared               Data collection        Recurrent cost             information              intemational                       Lack of net -
analyzing and    globally                                                                                                              conference and     Land use data   working and
providing access                  Analytical tools adapted.   Data storing        Database                   Number of people using    conservation       collection     collaboration
to information   Increased        esp. GIS technology                                                        information
capacity to                               Data analysis         Procuring computer                                   Type of analytical
analyze and                                                     hardware and software       Hard copies of           tools acquired
apply                                     Development of                                   information published
information to                           research methodology    Data collection                                     Competent staff to
on-the-ground                             and inventory design                              Institutionalized analysis   apply GIS and
conservation                                                    Information sharing         and application of       remote sensing
programs                                  Information sharing                               information              techniques
networking            Net working and
interagency collaboration
Institutional
development at NCS.    Acquiring analytical tools
FSD                   for GIS techniology and
satellite data interpretation
Hard copies
distribution          Updating skills for analysis
and interpretation
Assess and       National forest    Updated satellite      Capacity building at   Funding for ground truthing   Interpreted satellite data    Monitoring reports   Biodiversity    Lack of staff in
monitor changes   cover           infornation interpretation   NCS. FSD to monitor   survey and data         every five years?         from NCS. FSD      status         RGOB to conduct
in the national  maintained at                             Bhutan's vegetation    interpretation                                      on status of        monitoring     field assessment
forest cover and    60% of total  Ground truthing exercises  cover                                           Biodiversity assessnsent    national forest
status of        land area                                                        Technical assistance to    reports at regular interval   cover          Land use       Unavailabilitv of
biodiversity                                               Policy input from      NCS. FSD                                                                               satellite data
Avert loss of                             Government                                        Policy comment papers    Policy level
biodiversity                                                     Policy recommendations to                           workshop to                        Expensive
RGOB                                                review                             undenaking
findings and
proper legislation



Expected          Impact evaluation         Specification of     Specification and Level of     Expected Program         Specification of    Specification
Program           Program             measurement          Possible Programs or              inputs                    Outputs             Implementation        of Areas       Program Risks
Objective          Impact                                         process                                                                     Indicators
Strengthen        Reduced           Forest Management Units   Management              Management prescriptions     Reduced negative           Management          Functional      Lack of expertise to
conservation      negative          managed for different     prescription for        to suit different functions of   environmental impacts in   prescription for  mapping of    assess the impacts
considerations in   environmental    functions including eco-    different functions  forests in the Forest        the Forest Management    safe -guarding        Forest
forest            impacts in the    system services                                   Management Units             Units                     different functions   Management
management        Forest                                      Impact assessment of                                                           of the forests in    Unit
planning and      Management                                  management plans in    Impact assessment             Publication of impact     the Forest
monitoring for    Units                                       the Forest                                           assessment reports        Management Units  Institutionaliz
sustainable                                                   Management Units        Training                                                                    ation of
forestry          Environmentally                                                                                  Management plan           Impact of the        impact
development in    gazetted                                                                                         implemented as planned    management plans   assessment
Forest            amanagement                                                                                                                assessed
Management
Units
Objective (iii): To promote awareness on conservation issues and strengthen conservation ethics through formal and non-formal
education to increase capacity for effective implementation of environmental conservation and development programs.
Develop and       Raise             Iicrease in social        Social awarencss        Trainiig                     Awareness campaigns per  Campaign              Endanigered    Iack of leading
implement non-    environmental     awareness on              building                                             year                      programs             species and     organization to
formal            awareness         conservation issues                               Public avareness campaigns                             implemenited         their habitat    implement
conservation      among the                                                                                        Distributioni of extensioni   througii media.  maniagemenit    noni-formal
awareness         Bhutanese                                                           Development of extension     materials                 schools. religious                   a areness programs
programs          public                                                              materials                                              bodies. etc          Emerging
conservation
problems
Integrate         Increased         Number of schools with    Incorporatiing          Develop and implement        Environmental Educationi   Environmental       Endangered      Heavy curriculum
environmental     capacity within    environenital            environmental           curriculum at education      taught in schools         Awards              species
education into    education         conservationi curriculum  education in the        division
national school    system to                                  primary. secondary                                                             Essay and Arts       Eniergiig
curricula at      support                                     and tertiary institutions                                                      competition         national
primary,          conservation                                                                                                                                   environmental
secondary and     education                                                                                                                  Nature Clubs        problems
tertiary levels                                                                                                                              activities
Nature Club
institutionalized                                                                                                          Environmental
into education                                                                                                             curriculum taughit
L ______________   J  system



Expected         Impact evaluation         Specification of     Specification and Level of     Expected Program        Specification of    Specification
Program          Program             measurement          Possible Programs or             inputs                    Outputs             Implementation       of Areas        Program Risks
Objective          Impact                                        process                                                                    Indicators
Increase capacity   Educate        Number of refresher       Seminars. workshops    Teachers, planners and       Number of teachers.       Train teachers,     Human and
for planning.     teachers.        course and training       and study tours on      administrators education    pinners and               planners and        institutional
implementation    planners and     workshops conducted       conservation education                              administrators attending  administrators      d.evelopment
and management   Administrators                                                                                  seminars, workshops etc
of conservation    on conservation                           Training planners
education         education
programs by
exposing
teachers.
planners and
administrators to
conservation
education
through refresher
courses and
training
workshop                                                                                                                                                                                              w
Develop           Teaching         Types of teaching         Resource books on       Education Division          Teaching materials and    Number of schools                   Inadequate
teaching          materials and    materials and resource    consei atiom issues    determininig                resource books publishied   receiving teaching                eNpertise for
materials and     resource books    books developed.                                 substance of resoirce books                           materials and                       developing resource
resource books    deseloped        published and used                                and publishing them                                   resource books                      books and teachinig
on Bhutan's                                                                                                                                                                    materials
natural heritage
and current
conservation
issues
_  _        l                                                                  l                                                      I_ I_ _  I_   ____  . __ [ _                  _



Expected        Impact evaluation         Specification of    Specification and Level of    Expected Program       Specification of    Specification
Program          Program            measurement         Possible Programs or            inputs                   Outputs            Implementation       of Areas       Program Risks
Objective         Impact                                       process                                                                 Indicators
Involve religious  Conservation   More people enriched in   Formalizing           Training/study tours       Rituals/religion         Translating texts    Environmenta   Lack of focal points
communities in   ethics           conservation ethics      conservation education                            communities involved in                      I
promoting        strengthened                              in the curriculum of   Printing and publication   conservation education   Workshops           consequences
conservation                                               religious studies
ethics                                                                            Translation                Translated texts          Rituals programs    Sustainable
Including non-formal                                                      including non-      use of
education in the      Workshops/seminars                                   formal             resources
religious rituals                                 More people exposed to    conservation
performed by religious                            conservation ethics      education program
communities
Institutionalized leaming
Training members/                                 of conservation education
religious persons in
conservation education
Develop          Informed of      Number of public axvare    Educating peoples    Expenses for training      Peoples representative   Awareness           Forest fire    Time constraint on 
awareness of     policies and     of policies and          representative on      peoples representative     trained                  program designed                   the public
policies.        regulations that   regulations            policies and                                                               and inmplemented    Endangered
regulations and    benefit                                 regulations            Expenses for public meeting                                             species
management       conservation                                                                                Public meetings held
systems that                                               Funding public         Printing costs                                                          Sustainable
benefit                                                    meeting to leam about                             Regulation and policy                        use of
conservation                                               policies and                                      document printed and                         resources etc.
regulations                                       distributed
Organizing public
meeting
Printing and
distributing policy
cocument and
regulation _                                                             _



Expected         Impact evaluation         Specification of     Specification and Level of    Expected Program         Specification of    Specification
Program           Program            measurement          Possible Programs or             inputs                    Outputs             Implementation       of Areas        Program Risks
Objectivc          Impact                                        process                                                                    Indicators
Provide support   Skilled staff     Efficiency of staff at   Refresher courses       Cost of training            Refresher                 Number of           Wildlife
to in-service     produced          implementation of                                                            course conducted          refresher courses    management
training                            conservation programs    Training of trainers    Logistic support
institutions such                                                                                                Teaching materials                            Community
as BFI. NRTI.                                                                        Teaching material           provided                                      development
Nature Study
Center. for                                                                                                                                                    Extension
human resources
development
Objective (iv): To build capacity of BTF Secretariat to ensure sound internal management of the Bhutan Trust Fund
Manage financial  Atleast 5%        Financial returns        Issuing investment      Contract professional asset    Financial reports      Comparative         Not applicable  Stock market
assets           return above                                guidelines              manager in long-term                                   performance with   (NA)            fluctuation
management                                                                                                               other asset
fees and                                                                                                                 manager                             Poor
inflation                                                                                                                                                    communication
Effective                                                4}
communLication                     Exchange rate
fluctuation
Effective fund
disbursement
Allocate          Revenue used      Proposals developed and    Proposals versus      Staff time and materials to  Approved proposals       Number of                           Few proposals
available         effective         funded                   workplan               increase awareness of BTF                              approved            NA
revenue to                                                                           and facilitate submission of                          proposals                           Proposals not
effective                                                                            proposals                                                                                 properly completed
programs                                                                                                                                   Value of approved
proposals                          Political pressures
Ratio of approved                  Perception of
proposals to                        unfainiess
available funds
Volume of
Change in value                    proposals beyond
from previous                      capability of BTF
year.                              secretariat
Average timing
between
submission and
____________  __   ________ _______   ___ ____________ ______   ____ ___________ ____   ______ ____________ ______   ____ ___________ ______   appro al        ________  ____   ______ ___approval



Expected         Impact evaluation         Specification of     Specification and Level of     Expected Program        Specifict-on of    Specification
Program          Program             measurement          Possible Programs or             inputs                    Outputs             Implemnentation      of Areas       Program Risks
Objective          Impact                                        process                                                                   Indicators
Review            Ensure mone)     Yes/No rating             In house review         Quarterly reports from      Bhutan Trust Fund         Timeliness of       NA              Grantees don't
performance and   spent for                                                          grantees                    performance summary       grantee reports                     issue reports on
demonstrate      intended          Qualitative rating on     Independent review of                                                                                             time
accountability of   purpose        scale                     contract every 5 years?   Bhutan Trust Fund staff                             Timeliness of
grantees                                                                             time on review                                        Bhutan Trust Fund                   Grantees' reports
Achieve desired   Evidence of adjustments                                                                                summary                            incomplete
results
Format of grantees
Feedback to                                                                                                                                                  reports does not
improve                                                                                                                                                      provide information
proposal
evaluation                                                                                                                                                   Achievement of
process                                                                                                                                                      results of
impossible to
evaluate
Volumne of review%
beyond capacity of   -D
Bhutan Trust Fund
Secretariat
Develop capacit!  Increased        Recruitment of additional   Iistittitional and    Hire a staff withi MBA as the  Increased capacity at  Additional staff    Training in
of BTF           institutional     program staff. (program   human resources         Director of the Trust FLind  Trust Fund Secretariat to   recruited and    conservation
Secretariat to    capability at    officer and assistant)    development                                         support conservation      trained             program
develop and       Bhutan Trust                                                       Trained Program Officer in    programs through                            development
manage            Fund secretariat   Office development and                          conservation program        recruitment and training
conservation     to develop.       management.                                       development. monitoring.    of additional staff                           Computerized
programs with     manage and                                                         evaluation and                                                            accotnting
conservation      administer       Human resources                                   admini istration
partners and      conservation     development through in-                                                                                                     Analyses of
grantees          programs         country. region and                              Train accounting and                                                       financial
overseas training                                support staff in computer                                                 reports and
skills                                                                    computer
skills



Expected        Impact evaluation        Specification of    Specification and Level of   Expected Program       Specification of   Specification
Program          Program           measurement         Possible Programs or            inputs                   Outputs           Implementation       of Areas      Program Risks
Objective         Impact                                      process                                                                Indicators
Communicate      Confidence in    Evidence of additional    Internal reporting   BTF staff                  Annual report covering   Timely reports    NA              Reports not
with             BTF              funding for conservation                                                  financial statements and                                   sufficiently
stakeholders to                  in Bhutan                Audits                 Royal Audit Authority      programmatic content     Unqualified audits                comprehensive
ensure direct    Leveraging of                                                                              (including relation to
support for      continued donor                          Independent review     Independent Audits of      objectives on comments                                     Reports not
need-based       support for                              every 5 years?         Corestates Bank            on evaluation process)                                     effectively
conservation     conservation in                                                                                                                                       disseminated
activities       Bhutan
-4






49                  Annex 4 Main Text
ICR Annex 4
Bhutan - Trust Fund for Environmental Conservation
Implementation Completion Review Mission: October 6-19, 1997
Aide Memoire
12
1.   Introduction. A joint World Bank/Royal Government of Bhutan mission  reviewed the
above project from October 6-19, 1997 and jointly developed a draft implementation completion
report. The mission held discussions with members of the Bhutan Trust Fund (BTF)
Management Board (MB); the BTF Core Group (CG), the Ministry of Agriculture and its
Forestry Service Division (FSD) and Nature Conservation Section (NCS); UNDP/Thimphu;
World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)-Bhutan; local donor representatives of the Swiss, Dutch,
and Danish Governments, and the BTF Secretariat. The mission also visited Jigme Dorji
National Park and met with local staff, district officials, and local communities there. Mission
members express their sincere thanks to all for the assistance and hospitality extended during the
course of the mission.
2.    Wrap-up Meetings. The following summarizes the mission's major findings and
agreements, which were discussed at a wrap-up meeting on October 17 chaired by Honorable
Planning Minister Lynpo C. Dorji, MB Chairman.
3.    Overview of Mission Discussions. The mission focused on: (a) evaluating the GEF grant
to BTF, using an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to state the findings of the Bank and
the Government, and (b) providing advice to the Board on how to frame various policy and
implementation issues involved in the strategic plan for future BTF operation. The mission also
reviewed the status of recommendations made during the May 1997 mission (Attachment 1).
4.    Summary of ICR Findings. The mission found that the GEF grant achieved both of its
objectives: helping to initiate a conservation program and testing the feasibility of a trust fund
mechanism. Through the benchmark activities, the BTF grant has laid the basic foundation for
an effective long-term conservation program in Bhutan by establishing the legal, institutional,
and technical framework and in expanding implementation capacity. The grant has also proved
the feasibility of a trust fund mechanism that has the potential to provide long-term and
sustainable support for biodiversity conservation. The BTF is now a permanent, well-capitalized
institution. The Government used the GEF grant to mobilize funds from other donors, who have
more than matched the GEF contribution of US$ 10 million to the BTF, and also increased their
financing of other biodiversity programs separate from the BTF. The experience with financial
management, governance, and the strategic plan has influenced the design of biodiversity trust
funds for other countries, and opened up the prospect of trust funds for other sectors within
Bhutan.
12
Ms. Jessica Mott (Mission Leader), Ms. Susan Shen (Ecologist), Mr. Theodore M. Smith (Trust Fund
Specialist), and Mr. Kunzang Norbu (RGOB Planning Officer)



50                  Annex 4 Main Text
5.    Further Processing of the ICR. The mission team plans to revise the draft ICR during
November, taking into consideration comments received during the wrap-up meeting as well as
written comments sent to the Bank. After the BTF Board meeting in November or December, the
team will update the ICR to reflect the latest status of the strategic plan, and to incorporate
complete FY97 financial data. At the wrap-up meeting it was agreed that Karma Phuntsho
would be responsible for coordinating review and clearance of a revised draft ICR in December,
before its dissemination to GEF, the Bank Board, and the public.
6.    Strategic Plan. The BTF Board now plans to hold a full-day retreat sometime in
November or December, in the hope of developing a clear consensus on the long-term vision and
on BTF program priorities for the next five years. The mission commends the decision to devote
such time to the BTF at this critical juncture. Attachment 2 of this Aide Memoire attempts to
frame policy and implementation questions which the Board may wish to begin to explore during
the retreat. The mission believes that an important part of the strategic plan will be the
establishment of specific implementation benchmarks with a clear time-line (e.g., broad
dissemination of proposal guidelines, fund flow for incremental staff and for human resource
development). Attachment 3 of this Aide Memoire comprises excerpts from the GEF
Operational Strategy, which the mission hopes will help to clarify the range of activities that
would be consistent with the GEF biodiversity mandate.



51                       Aninex 4 Main Text
7.     Agreed Follow-up Actions. Actions agreed during the current mission consist of:
No.   Issue                            Action                             Agency      Completion Date,
Responsible
Review of draft ICR             Distribute draft ICR to Board       BTF         Distribute by
members, core group members,     Secretariat    October 20 and
local donor representatives, and             send comments by
key individuals involved in BTF              November 7, 1997
history. Forward any written
comments to Bank
Financial Tables for ICR Annex 2  Update and send to Bank           BTF         November 25,
Secretariat       1997
Update on status of strategic plan   Inform Bank of conclusions of  BTF        after next Board
BTF Board meeting, and send      Secretariat      meeting
copy of draft final Strategic Plan if
available
Updating of ICR to reflect      Finalize ICR and submit for final   Bank      December 8, 1997
comments from wrap-up           RGOB clearance
meeting,, written comments,
Board decisions on strategic plan,
and updated FY97 financial data.
RGOB Clearance of ICR           Review and clear final ICR for   [designated    December 31,
public distribution                RGOB             1997
official]
Share trust fund experience from    Send BTF information on trust   Bank           ongoing
other countries                 fund developments in other
countries
Keep Bank informed of BTF       Send copies of annual reports,      BTF            ongoing
activities                      other progress reports, final     Secretariat
Strategic Plan, and other relevant
documents
Visits to facilitate communication   Visit BTF to learn more about  Bank          Fall, 1999
and interchange                 further BTF experiences and to
exchange views
Attachments
1.     Status of Recommendations Made During May 1997 Mission
2.     BTF Policy and Operational Considerations
3.     Excerpts from GEF Operational Strategy
4.     Draft ICR



52                        Annex 4 Attachment 1
Status of Recommendations Made During Last Mission
Recommendations of Last Mission                     Actions Taken Since Last Mission
Grantee:
Revise the draft strategic plan for the trust fund to include   Board has reviewed and commented on a revised draft
a vision statement, a description of implementation  strategic plan, and now plans to use its next meeting to
capacity implications and constraints, an explanation of    develop a consensus on fundamental policy and
the importance of proceeding with conservation activities   implementation issues that the strategic plan needs to
as soon as possible, a proposal that BTF finance of  address.
scholarships and recurrent expenditures of incremental
conservation, and recommendations on BTF programming
procedures
In response to Braehead report, Finance Committee to  The Board formally adopted investment objectives,
recommend that BTF Board formally document          guidelines and monitoring indicators at its May 1997
objectives, quantify investment guidelines and establish  meeting
agreed monitoring indicators
Recommend specific environmental criteria that Mies  The Board has requested that the Finance Committee
Pearson could use if so instructed by BTF Board     propose specific criteria, these are not likely to be
available until the spring 1998 Board meeting.
Develop a detailed 20 year human resource development   The BTF Secretariat has, in consultation with affected
(HRD) plan for BTF objectives, and an immediate plan  agencies, has prepared a preliminary human resource
for scholarships and recurrent costs to be funded by BTF    development and manpower proposal, that the Board will
in FY97/98 and FY98/99, to be presented at the fall 1997   consider in the context of the strategic plan. RGOB would
Board meeting                                       be responsible for formal approval and implementation of
the proposal.
Estimate annual BTF expenditures on scholarships,   Estimates will depend upon Board decisions in the next
recurrent costs, and project proposals over the next twenty  meeting regarding the parameters of BTF funding for
years, building on the HRD plan                     incremental staffing and human resource development.
Recommend to BTF Secretariat potential sites in Asia for   The Bank has recommended visits to Kalakad and Buxa
study tours on management systems to improve        Tiger Reserves in India, selected protected areas in Nepal,
people/park interactions                            and the GEF-funded biodiversity project in the
Philippines.
Send copy of NES to Bank after it is printed        NES not yet in print
Send copy of BAP to Bank after it has draft ready for  Bank received during October 1997 mission
distribution
Revise draft ICR to ensure that it fully addresses issues  Bank received revised draft in September 1997
related to trust fund establishment and operation, and that
it evaluates the impact of the programmatic activities. See
Attachment 3 for details
Review and further revise with assistance of core group   I
Arrange mission for September/October.              Accomplished



53                Annex 4 Attachment 2
BTF Policy and Operational Considerations
Introduction
1.    Purpose. The purpose of this report is to convey to the Management Board of the BTF
information and perspectives which the mission has gleaned from its exposure to individual
Board members, Secretariat staff, "core group" participants, contribution donor officials, other
Bhutanese officials, the draft strategic plan and other BTF documents. In addition, the mission
has drawn, where appropriate, on the experience of its members in other national settings-all in
an effort to frame questions which the Board might wish to explore in a policy-making context.
The mission is fully aware and respectful of the fact that the Bhutan Trust Fund for
Environmental Conservation represents an international innovation, that it is a "work in
progress," and is, in certain respects, experimental in nature. The BTF has made important
advances in a short time. Commentary provided here is forward-looking, not backward looking.
2.    Development Stages. It may be helpful to the Board to view the development of the
Bhutan Trust Fund in three stages-beginning with the initial idea for the fund which originated
in Bhutan in the late 1980s.
(a)   Stage I:    Development of the concept of the Bhutan Trust Fund, including
the design and appraisal work which went into the formation of the Trust.
(b)   Stage II:    Solicitation of capital contributions, establishment of basic
operational policies, implementation of activities to achieve benchmark
objectives, contracting for asset management arrangements to meet international
standards, creation of the framework for a Secretariat and engaging staff to run it,
and the adoption of a basic Charter for the BTF.
(c)   Stage III:    Adoption of a Strategic Plan with in increased focus on program
implementation and the institutional development of the BTF as an operating
organization.
The BTF has progressed to Stage III, accomplishing a considerable amount in the first two
stages.
Key Policy Issues for Board Consideration
Programmatic Scope of BTF Utilization
3.    Overview. BTF Board members have raised the issue of the programmatic scope of BTF
utilization during their May 1997 review of an early draft version of the strategic plan. This
policy issue involves three major elements: (a) the range of programmatic support that would be
consistent with the GEF biodiversity mandate; (b) the projected long-term funding requirements
from BTF for biodiversity expenditures; and (c) the possibility of broadening the BTF program
mandate to cover a wider range of environmental activities such as natural hazard mitigation..
4.    Activities Consistent with GEF Biodiversity Mandate. The BTF Board has a strong
interest in ensuring that the portion of BTF funds associated with the GEF grant (e.g., principal
and accumulated interest) will fund activities that are consistent with the GEF mandate for the



54                 Annex 4 Attachment 2
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity as defined by GEF. Board actions in this regard
will influence the willingness of GEF to provide grants for trust funds in the future, and also
affect RGOB's reputation as GEF's first trust fund recipient. The Board also has a legal
responsibility defined by the GEF Grant Agreement. In cognizance of this fact, until now the
Board has taken a relatively conservative and narrow interpretation of which activities would be
eligible for BTF grants. The mission hopes that the Attachment 3 which comprises excerpts
from the GEF Operational Strategy (1996) will clarify for the Board the full scope of activities
that would be consistent with the biodiversity mandate. For example, conservation activities for
protected areas can include not only direct management interventions, but also integrated
conservation and development programs that mitigate potential conflict and prormnote
collaboration by addressing both the impact of protected areas on local people and the impact of
local people on protected areas. Outside of protected areas, biodiversity management within
productive sectors can include integration of biodiversity conservation and sustainable use into
land use management plans. The Board may wish to consider marginally expanding the scope of
the vision statement and program funding objectives in the draft strategic plan, taking into
account the guidance provided by GEF Operational Strategy.
5.    Projected Long-term Funding Requirements for Biodiversity. Neither the Board nor
the mission have specific projections of the funding requirements for biodiversity over the long-
term. The NEC has offered to estimate the post-project recurrent expenditures that RGOB will
be incurring after the completion of protected area and biodiversity conservation projects in the
current donor-funded investment portfolio. The mission recommends that the Ministry of
Agriculture make these preliminary estimates within the next three months. Even in the absence
of data, the mission's impression is that over the long-term, the BTF income will only be able to
cover a portion of the total funding requirements for biodiversity in the future. Over the next
year, the Board may wish to commission a detailed comprehensive analysis of future long-term
funding requirements for biodiversity, perhaps with reference to the Biodiversity Action Plan
that has recently been drafted. This analysis would enable the Board to better judge the optimal
size of capital (including additional contributions from donors) within the BTF which should be
devoted to biodiversity. As a small country with a strong reputation for integrity and for
commitment to biodiversity, Bhutan is in a unique position of potentially meeting a significant
portion of its total biodiversity expenditures through the BTF.
6.    Broadening the BTF Scope to Cover a Wider Range of Environmental Issues. BTF
Board members have legitimate interests in natural hazard mitigation and management of a wider
range environmental issues. In a country with Bhutan' s terrain and climate, addressing these
issues is fundamental to poverty alleviation and quality of life. Some trusts funds of other
countries have placed GEF grant moneys in a special account dedicated to funding biodiversity
activities, and have used funding from other sources for a broader range of activities. The Board
may wish to consider a similar arrangement for the BTF. In this case, the mission recommends
that the Board carefully consult individual donors before reallocating any of the existing BTF
capital (and associated interest) to a broader range of activities. If the Board decides that the
BTF should have a wider environmental mandate, it would also need to carefully consider the
implications for fund-raising, programmatic priorities, funding eligibility requirements,
secretariat workload, etc. In any case, the mission suggests that the Board consider the issue of



55                 Annex 4 Attachment 2
broadening the scope of BTF funding only on its substantive merits, and not as a means to
respond to donor pressures to spend more of the BTF investment income in the short-term.
BTF Funding for Increasing Local Implementation Capacity
7.    Overview. The mission welcomes the Board's decision in principle to use a portion of
BTF funds to increase local implementation capacity by funding human resource development
and salaries and benefits of incremental staff. As a next step, the Board needs to carefully review
the manpower and human resource development proposal, determine the overall parameters for
BTF support of the associated expenditures, and consider issues related to the phasing and nature
of human resource development.
8.    Manpower and Human Resource Development Proposal. The manpower and human
resource development proposal being prepared by the BTF secretariat in consultation with
concerned agencies should provide a valuable basis for Board deliberations on this issue, and
replace the earlier version of Annex C of the Strategic Plan. The mission recognizes and values
the fact that RGOB officials are taking care to ensure the incremental staff are genuinely needed,
will be properly utilized, and will be allocated across agencies in ways that maximize efficiency
and collaboration. Clearly, the BTF Board is taking care to steward its resources wisely, and not
to spend BTF income just because it is there or because donors are pressing for short-term
results. The mission suggests that part (ii) Capacity Implications of Vision is no longer needed
in main text of the Strategic Plan, provided that part (i) contains a footnote reference that Annex
C provides indicative estimates on the capacity implications.
9.    Parameters Determining Level of BTF Support for Local Capacity. The Board will
now need to consider the manpower and human resource development (HRD) proposal in light
of several possible parameters: limits on the BTF allocation for local capacity, limits on the time
period of BTF support, and requirements for matching RGOB funds.
(a)   Does the Board want to set a ceiling for the percentage of BTF's annual budget
investment income that would be devoted to salaries of incremental staff and other
incremental recurrent expenditures? If so, the mission suggests that HRD
expenditures not be treated as part of the ceiling. In addressing the issue of a
possible ceiling, the Board will need to consider whether in the future there will
be significant tradeoffs between funding local capacity and funding "field"
programs. At this early stage, such tradeoffs do not have to be confronted.
(b)   Does the Board want to specify the length of time that BTF would support
expenditures for specific incremental staff prior to these expenditures being
transferred to the regular government budget? If so, the mission recommends that
the Board set a range of time. For example, the Board might specify that that
regular budget would absorb these expenditures within five years if fiscal
conditions permitted, and in any case within 15 years. The Board should also take
note that some trust funds in other countries envisage perpetual funding of
recurrent costs with no time limits, and that GEF would not require any time
limits for Bhutan. The BTF is now a domestic resource and funding by the BTF
would be fully consistent with Bhutan's desire to be self-reliant.



56                 Annex 4 Attachment 2
(c)   Finally, the Board may wish to consider what would be an appropriate mix of
BTF and RGOB funding for incremental recurrent costs. At a minimum, RGOB
would need to fund 10%, as per normal requirements.
10.   Human Resource Development Issues. When the Board reviews the HRD proposal, the
mission suggests that it carefully consider issues related to the phasing and the nature of training.
The recent experience of the Nature Conservation Section has shown that "bunching" of overseas
scholarships has curtailed implementation in the short run. It may be important to incorporate
more mentoring and on-the-job training. In reviewing the HRD proposal, the Board should be
sure to carefully consider the HRD requirements of BTF Secretariat staff.
Meeting Short-term Demands or Long-term Needs
11.   The Balancing Act of Governing a Trust Fund. In deciding on its spending policy, the
Board could legitimately consider two extreme options:
(a)   It could decide to annually expend the Fund's entire net income (defined as
dividends, interest and asset appreciation) on current environmental program
priorities. This would keep the asset base at roughly the same level as it is now,
assuming protection against inflation was maintained. This would, in turn, mean
that annual income, and therefore BTF expenditures, would not grow but remain
at approximately the same level over the long term.
(b)   It could alternatively decide to keep expenditures at a minimal level for a given
period of time, turning nearly all income into investments. This strategy would
grow the BTF's financial assets, with the result that the Fund's future income and
funding capability would be much larger.
12.   Capital Growth Versus Short-term Expenditures. These extreme alternatives are
described in order to illustrate a policy choice which the mission encourages the Board to
engage. Put simply: How much of the annual income from BTF investments should be allocated
to annual program and operational expenditures, and how much should be reinvested in order to
increase the income-producing capacity of the fund in future years? The case favoring increased
current expenditures is probably best made on the basis of potential irrecoverable losses to
Bhutan' s biotic wealth-if such prospective losses can be adequately documented. The chief
"lobbyists" for increased current expenditures are normally senior government officials and
donor agency representatives who naturally wish to see concrete accomplishments during their
respective tenures. This short-term orientation is understandable: current needs are real and
those in positions of responsibility seek results. Additionally, donor representatives wish to
know how their contributions are being used. At the other extreme, the case favoring heavy
reinvestment of income/earnings rests on the importance of building up Bhutanese conservation
funding capacity and thereby protecting future generations. A trust fund of $100m would deliver
more funding than a fund of $30m. There are, however, no "lobbyists" to argue on behalf of
future generations; they are not yet born. The mission concludes that there is no "right answer"
to this policy choice, but observes that growth in national wealth in other countries has not
guaranteed that conservation needs will be adequately addressed, even in booming economic
times. The current backlog in infrastructure maintenance in US national parks, for example, is
estimated at between $6 and $8 billion (!).



57                 Annex 4 Attachment 2
13.   Operational Experience. Another argument in favor of beginning to spend is that it
would provide the opportunity for the BTF to "learn by doing", and establish well-functioning
operational systems. Gradually increasing the rate of spending over time may help the BTF to
minimize mistakes and to ensure that its workload does not exceed its capability.
14.   How Much Is Enough? To the mission's knowledge, there is no rational basis linked to
the level of income which a trust fund of $20m would produce. The basis for the size of the GEF
grant of $1 Om and the subsequent matching contributions which pushed BTF assets to over
$20m probably had mostly to do with the availability of funds at the time and with a general
sense that $20m was a pretty good minimum to work with. At 5% net per annum, such a fund
would generate income of $ lm per year for operations and grants. The net contribution of $ lm,
it must be stated, was not defended on the basis of a refined calculation of the country's needs. It
may well be that $2m would be an excellent figure to support the effective, sustained
management of Bhutan's nine protected areas. This raises a question as to whether the Board
might wish to re-evaluate the initial goal for the accumulation of assets--and raise it? To do so
would strengthen the concept of a sustainable fund. It could also, in times of government budget
reductions and/or economic crises, offer an additional level of security for the protection of
Bhutan's natural resource wealth. Whatever the Board may decide, the arguments which
support a policy of growing the BTF's financial assets provide reasoned, legitimate responses to
the expenditure demands of those who assert the primacy of today's immediate needs.
Implementation Priorities & Institutional Strengthening
15.   Financial Achievements. In the short run-the last five years--the BTF's financial
achievements have run ahead of its institutional accomplishments. Financial achievements
include the successful accumulation of assets (currently approximating US$27 million accrued
through contributions and earnings) and the utilization of professional asset management services
to provide a strong sense of security to contributing donors. In addition, the BTF established,
with World Bank assistance, a set of internal financial procedures and controls in order to instill
high levels of confidence among all interested parties that funds are being used for the purposes
described in public documents. Because the BTF is principally a financial innovation, the
Management Board's decision to give highest priority to developing and securing strong
financial policies was entirely appropriate. To have insisted on other priorities would have been
a serious mistake.
16.   Programming Capability. Other aspects of institutional development have lagged
behind, including BTF's capacity for developing and initiating programs through the
government's implementing agencies. As donors and government fully understand, it requires
human resources (staffing) and institutional infrastructure to be effective. The BTF has but
minimal amounts of both and is only now poised to tackle these program requirements. It will
do so within the framework of a 5-Year Strategic Plan which the Management Board will adopt
in the near future.
17.   Pace of Development. The challenge ahead is not whether the BTF will move ahead to
develop capacity for program initiatives involving the expenditure of BTF funds, but how
smartly and how thoroughly it will be able to do this in the next five years. Taking into account
limitations common to the general working environment of Bhutan-which differ substantially



58                 Annex 4 Attachment 2
from those of Bern, The Hague, Oslo, Copenhagen or Washington-the answer will depend
heavily on the performance of the Management Board and the Director of BTF and on the
absorptive capacity of Bhutan's implementing agencies.
Building Capacity in the BTF Secretariat
18.   The following list covers several steps in BTF's institutional development which should
be considered. Most of them have already been identified in the Strategic Plan. Some are
intended to help refine elements of the Plan in the areas of institutional capacity and human
capacity.
(a)   Secretariat Benchmarks. The Board might wish to explicitly define what a fully
operational BTF Secretariat would look like in 3-5 years. This would include:
number of staff and capabilities of each, physical facilities and preferred office
location, communications capability, and the estimated annual operating and
program budget. This action would define a provisional goal for the institutional
development of BTF, a target subject to change, but nonetheless an organizational
goal against which to measure progress. If the words of an anonymous sage, "If
you don't know where you are going, you won't know when you get there."
(b)   Staff recruitment, appointments, and performance upgrading. Under the
Strategic Plan, BTF aspires to facilitate and finance a large number of program
activities. If staff are not yet prepared to initiate and manage these activities, a
staff enhancement (training) plan should be designed. This could include some
form of collaboration with experienced trust fund/foundation officers in other
countries since on-the-job mentoring is likely the most efficient for of training.
(c)   Budgets. Preparation of two annual budgets, one for programs (grants) and one
for the administration of the BTF. The budgets should be prepared by the
Secretariat (with initial guidance from the Management Board) and recommended
to the Board for approval prior to the beginning of each year. These budgets
represent the annual BTF financial plan. And they would be consistent with the
BTF's Five Year Plan.
(d)   Workplan and Calendar. Establishment of an annual workplan and calendar of
BTF events with emphasis placed on deadlines for action. Most importantly for
those outside BTF, schedules for submitting proposals and deadlines for BTF
decisions on funding of proposals need to be established and made known. (This
aspect of "transparency" demonstrates respect for those seeking funding.)
(e)   Dissemination of Proposal Guidelines. Publication and distribution of proposal
guidelines and format after Management Board approval. As BTF gains
experience, it is almost a certainty that the guidelines will need to be amended,
but it is important to establish an open practice of making funding policies known
to anyone who has a legitimate interest. This is an excellent means to
communicate the high standards which the BTF is applying to its funding
decisions.



59                 Annex 4 Attachment 2
(f)   Performance Indicators. The draft Strategic Plan does not, at this point in its
formulation, set concrete programmatic benchmarks with associated expenditures
and completion dates for the next 5-year period. It includes a framework for
monitoring and evaluating future trust fund performance that is extensive and
generally relevant to the task. The indicators are, however, not prioritized, have no
quantifiable measures attached to them, and, in some cases, would benefit from
placing them on a timeline. For example, what is to be achieved in year 1, year 2,
year 3, year 4, and year 5 of the Plan? It might be useful to the Board if half-way
through the five-year period, an external party were contracted to evaluate the
performance of the BTF in meeting the targets within the Plan.
(g)   Communication. The Secretariat needs to establish a communications
strategy/policy which is designed to reach all potential stakeholders. When
operational this would provide potential fund recipients with the information they
need in order to prepare requests for funding, and keep contributing donor
agencies well-informed of BTF activities.
(h)   Accounting and Information Systems. Future enhancement of financial
records/accounting system involving the use of appropriate software. This can
wait until the BTF becomes more active in its funding activities. Beyond
finances, the Secretariat will, in the future, need to develop a good internal
information system which enables it to keep track of all of the requests for funds,
grant documents, correspondence on each grant, and reports from each grantee.
This system for keeping and retrieving information will probably need to be
developed within the next year or two-depending upon the number of grants
made.
(i)    Outside Expertise. Development of BTF's capacity to tap expertise outside of
BTF, on a contractual basis, to perform functions which the BTF itself cannot
undertake. "Outside expertise" could be used to design initiatives for BTF
funding, to review the technical aspects of proposals, to undertake specific
monitoring and evaluation assignments, and to review donor and RGOB funding
for environmental conservation, etc. The use of outside expertise is a common
practice among trust funds and foundations in other countries.
(j)   Secretariat Initiatives. With the adoption of the strategic plan, it is reasonable to
expect the Secretariat to develop a capability to take new initiatives from time to
time. For example, the Director might identify the need for a specific type of
research and seek Board approval for the Secretariat to commission the study. In
other words, the Secretariat should be a pro-active operation at times.
Governance issues concerning the Management Board
19.   Overview. The Management Board of the BTF, composed mainly of very senior RGOB
officials, contains unusually sophisticated talent. All of the ability and intelligence necessary to
direct the affairs of the Trust Fund are there. But there remains a set of issues bearing on the
functions of the Board as a corporate body, and it is to these functions which this section is
addressed.



60                 Annex 4 Attachment 2
20.   Time Requirements. Growth in the complexity and the size of the BTF program will
likely require more time of the Board members. Meetings will need to be more regularly
scheduled and decisions will more frequently need to be reached between meetings. This is a
logical projection. It will be up to the Board to determine how best to respond to BTF's growth.
21.   Succession. A policy needs to be formulated to ensure that replacements for each
departing board member are selected with great care. The method of selecting future Board
members and of choosing the chairman and treasurer should be designed so that the BTF is
served by the highest professional standards
22.   Selection of Secretariat Director. The Board may wish to recognize that the selection
and appointment of the Secretariat's Director is likely the most important function it performs.
This might lead the Board to design its selection process in such a way that the candidate chosen
is the right person to fulfill the vision and achieve the objectives described in the Strategic Plan.
23.   Term of Secretariat Director. The establishment of a term of office for the Director may
be appropriate. Four or five years is reasonable. The term could be renewable.
24.   Treasurer. The Treasurer of the Board should be a member of the BTF Finance
Committee-or at least this idea should be carefully considered.
Management of BTF Financial Assets
25.   Background. The history of how BTF financial assets have been managed to achieve
income is detailed elsewhere and need not be repeated here. UNDP, for multiple contextual
reasons which founding members and contributors to the Trust agreed to, served as the initial
asset manager. In 1995-6 a change in approach was agreed to and the investment management
firm of Mees Pierson was selected to manage the Fund's assets following a lengthy and careful
process of screening a large number of investment managers.
26.   Current Issues. While the management of the Trust's assets-now estimated to be about
$27 million-appears to be in generally good order, there are still a few matters to be sorted out.
None is pressing, but each will likely require attention.
(a)   Asset Management Committee Responsibilities. The BTF Board might wish to
rename Finance Committee to more accurately reflect its asset management
responsibilities. In establishing the Asset Management Committee, a good
argument can be made to formalize its status-advancing beyond he ad hoc nature
of the current BTF Finance Committee.. In addition, the Committee might be
given a formal set of responsibilities which could include such things as:
(i)   holding regularly scheduled meetings,
(ii)  reviewing the asset manager's performance on a regular basis,
(iii) reporting its views to the Board,
(iv)  recommending changes in investment strategy to the Board.
(v)   recommending, as appropriate, changes in investment managers to the
Board, and



61                 Annex 4 Attachment 2
(vi)  identifying and recommending a company to engage in periodic reviews of
the performance of the investment manager(s).
(b)   Asset Management Committee Membership. As a part of formalizing the status
of a BTF Asset Management Committee, the Committee's membership should be
established by the Board. The current membership, which includes individuals
from RGOB's Embassy in New York, from UNDP, and from WWF, appears to
serve well at present, but a more enduring arrangement will probably need to be
worked out before too long.
(c)   Environmental Screening. If the Board wishes to establish some environmental
"screens" for its investment policy-that is, instructions to its investment
manager(s) specifying which types of companies to avoid investing in because of
their poor environmental records-the mission suggests that it do two things. It
should seek information from other trust funds/foundations or NGOs (e.g.,
WWF/US) to learn what "screens" they are currently using. Second, in making
policy on this, it should adopt a simple, basic screen rather than a complex set of
screens. WWF has previously made a recommendation in favor of simplicity.
(d)   Definition of Inflation. In order for the Trust Fund not to lose ground to inflation,
the assets of the Fund and the spending policy of the Fund must be managed in
such a way that the corpus is not reduced. Managing assets for "total return"
means discounting earnings for the rate of inflation. Because inflation in
industrialized countries where BTF's assets are invested may be different from
that in Bhutan, the Board may at some point wish to make a choice as to which
figure to use. The mission's present recommendation is that, for the sake of
simplicity, a US inflation figure be used.



BRD 29304
ELEVATION IN METERS:9                                                                930                                   0Q  020'
BHUTAN                                                             2
DO                                               N|5                                             NATIONAL PROTECTED AREAS SYSTEM
kNATIONAL PROTECTED AREAS           NA ONAL CAP TAL
N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ai ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS                                                                                D  STRICT C-AP TAOS
7t :L,E Eg    i 9gQ 0 00 0 W   0 0 0 -t.;; 0  0 0 00;<i f ;00+   ~'   /    '~'~'~t                                    AIRPORT                         o    OHER TOWNS
n            10                                                                  :                                      \                                           PAVED ROADS                         DISTRICT EElNDARIES
HIM AIA YAJ1 FOO TH ILLL                                                                                                                                                                        NTRA ONA BOLJNARIE
jUNPAVED ROADS, ROADS                STERN O 0L30 ROENIDARIES
-                                        _*                                              ,                                           UJNDER CONSIRUClION
_ /''-~~~~~~~~
,8s                               89 B9 3 / 0                                                                                                                                                                                      S
I T^   "9    3;3    'e    50                                                                                                                            . '           / 
K    ES LM  -E2
(.           i        D_oLSe]3              ''y'\                                                                                                             /.-j
JIGME DORJI
_.V           '   NATIONAL PARK                                                                                                                   KULON  CIlU C   /4
/                                                                                                                                                          SANClLJAR UA
, ,                                  N'       'Nt                                                                                                                  Tashi -
/                                                                                                                                                                                      /gH \     ;8WmI  bcr gW      vN   
'  i   '   :     t 4                                                       f   0                -   7   -----                -      V                                V                  \  .u      j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bt 
) S X ~~~hDmphu J-    ,\;seE_   \
/ )    -,,dunIsd-                                                                                                                                                         i A                                                             27 3H
TORSA                                                                                                                                      IOA                                      N-          '
NATURE  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Jr ~SAKTENG
rQ   RESERVE                          CEI                                                           hAz AN5.                                                                         TcohFsT              ,'   WILDLIFE
t'.                                                                            <N                        0                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KHALITN)O
ofteN                   5(00003                           RD/A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O~L MANAS'<         OD-tN ;,.                                  WIhDLIFE SAfRCTUARYf
S-            KGoIephus  PATEL. PARK                       -                                                     .       S    K
PEIHIPSOO      ('-,.--                                                                                                                   J
r )                   WILDLIFE SANCTUARY)
287' 9                             89                                 TO1 S0"00                          90 30'                             9' 00'                             91  3r'                               99 El2
MARCH E99E



