Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER 28602 BH
(Environmental Conservation Trust Fund Project)
between
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment
Trust Fund
Dated May 22, 1992
GET GRANT NUMBER 28602 BH
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 22, 1992, between KINGDOM OF BHUTAN (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds 
provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility into the Global 
Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (the Resolution), established the Global Environment Facility consisting of the 
GET, Cofinancing Arrangements with the GET and the Ozone Projects Trust Fund, to 
assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally 
sound and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank and Switzerland (the Participants) have 
provided resources by way of grant into the GET and the Participants have requested 
and the Bank has agreed, to administer such grant funds as Trustee, for the purposes 
of, and in accordance with, provisions of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient has agreed to cooperate with the United Nations 
Development Programme (UNDP) and the World Wildlife Fund and the Conservation 
Page  2
Foundation, now known as the World Wildlife Fund, Inc. (WWF), through a Trust Fund for 
Environmental Conservation in Bhutan (BTF), to identify appropriate activities to be 
carried out under the Recipient's program for environmental conservation of its 
extensive forest cover and abundant biodiversity (the Program) and to raise the 
necessary financial resources for their implementation;
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GET in the financing of the Project, and the 
Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions 
of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (E) certain other donors (the Other Donors) intend to provide assistance 
in the financing of the Project in an aggregate amount equivalent to at least two 
million dollars ($2,000,000) (the Other Contributions); and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GET Grant to the Recipient in two tranches upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Section 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
Page  3
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GET Grant; and
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GET Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"DOF" means the Department of Forestry of the Recipient;
(b)
"WLD" means the Wildlife Division of DOF;
(c)
"NCD" means the Nature Conservation Division of DOF to be established 
under Part A.1 of the Program;
(d)
"BFI" means the Bhutan Forestry Institute;
(e)
"MOU" means the Memorandum of Understanding, dated March 6, 1991, among 
the Recipient, WWF and UNDP for establishing BTF;
(f)
"MB" means the Management Board of BTF;
(g)
"PC" means the Program Coordinator referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement;
(h)
"NGO" means a Non-Governmental Organization;
(i)
"GIS" means Geographic Information System;
(j)
"Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985; and
(k)
"FY" or "fiscal year" means the Recipient's fiscal year covering the 
period July 1 through June 30 of each year.
ARTICLE II
The GET Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GET Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million three hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and social practices and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GET Grant available 
to BTF for use by BTF for the purposes of the Program in accordance with, and subject 
to, the terms and conditions approved by the Trustee, including those set forth in 
MOU.
Section 3.03. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and works required for the Program and to be financed out of the funds provided 
by BTF shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Program of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Program or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
The Recipient shall also furnish to the Trustee as soon as available the 
report of audit of the records and accounts maintained by BTF for each fiscal year.
Section 4.02. (a) The Recipient and the Trustee shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
 Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Trustee for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Trustee shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GET Grant Agreement:
(a)
the MOU has been amended so as to provide for (i) BTF to become effective 
upon donor contributions thereto reaching the equivalent of $9,000,000 in the 
aggregate, and (ii) the principal of BTF to be invaded so long as the value thereof 
does not fall below the equivalent of $8,500,000;
(b)
the Other Contributions have been received by BTF;
(c)
PC has been appointed, has entered upon his or her duties and has been 
provided an office in DOF staffed with a secretary and a part-time accountant; and
Page  5
(d)
the upgrading of WLD into an NCD under Part A.1 of the Program has been 
completed, including the appointment therein of a Joint Director as head, two 
additional professional staff and one support staff.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GET Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Tashichhodzong
Thimphu, Kingdom of Bhutan
Cable address:
Telex:
     MINISTRY OF FINANCE
890-201
     THIMPHU, BHUTAN
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
    INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
    Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF BHUTAN
By /s/ Dasho Sangay Ngedup
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Global Environment Trust Fund
By /s/ Jochen Kraske
Page  6
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GET Grant
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the GET Grant may be withdrawn from the GET Grant Account for expenditures 
to be made in respect of the contributions required to be made to BTF for the 
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Recipient in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GET Grant after the aggregate of the proceeds of the GET 
Grant withdrawn from the GET Grant Account and the total amount of such commitments 
shall have reached the equivalent of $7,000,000, unless the Trustee shall be 
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 4.02 of this Agreement 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Trustee: (a) with the progress achieved by the 
Recipient in the carrying out of the Program, and (b) that the actions described in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken.
3.
If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 2 above, the Trustee 
shall have given notice to the Recipient that the progress achieved and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Recipient shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Trustee, then the Trustee 
may, by notice to the Recipient, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the GET Grant or any 
part thereof.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GET Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the GET Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient: (a) in initiating a 
comprehensive nation-wide environmental conservation program, and, to that end, (b) in 
testing the feasibility of the trust fund as a mechanism for providing long-term and 
sustainable support for conservation of biological diversity.
The Project consists of the provision of financing for BTF which would, in turn, 
finance the Program consisting, inter alia, of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof or additions thereto as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree 
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institution Building and Human Resource Development
1.
Reorganization and upgrading of DOF's Wildlife Division (WLD) into a Nature 
Conservation Division (NCD), headed by a Joint Director and comprising initially an 
Inventory and Management Planning Unit (IMPU) and an Extension Education Unit (ECU) at 
headquarters, and a Deputy Director in charge in each protected area under NCD's 
management.
2.
Strengthening of DOF's data collection, storage, and monitoring capability to 
incorporate biological diversity parameters, through the establishment within DOF's 
Forest Management Division (FMD) of a digitized Geographic Information System (GIS), 
based on additional equipment, including computers, digitizer, scanners and related 
software, where needed, and provision of short-term training to existing staff and 
overseas training to new staff in photo interpretation and GIS database development.
3.
Provision of support to BFI to enable it to: (a) revise its curriculum to 
incorporate subjects such as wildlife conservation, protected areas management, and 
community relations; (b) give, in addition to the training it traditionally gives to 
forest guards, short-term refresher courses to high-level staff, including Deputy 
Directors, District Forest Officers and foresters, on specific technical subjects such 
as park management, ecology, wildlife, silviculture, extension, buffer zone 
management, and survey and inventory metholodogies; and (c) assist its trainers in 
developing pedagogic skills through (i) training in such subjects as speaking and 
Page  7
presentational skills, and the use of teaching aids, including video equipment, and 
(ii) attendance, either in-country or, in some cases, within the Asia region or 
overseas, at short-courses, seminars and workshops on conservation and park 
management.
Part B:
Establishment of a National System of Protected Areas
Establishment of a new national system of protected areas (including national 
parks, wildlife sanctuaries and forest reserves), based on major revisions to the 
existing system both in terms of area and biological diversity, and including the 
carrying out of surveys and inventories, development of categories of protection and 
procedures for official gazetting and approval of protected areas, official gazetting 
initially of four priority areas and the preparation, in consultation with local 
communities and government officials, of a detailed management plan for one gazetted 
area (under Part D of the Program) for possible replication for other gazetted areas.
Part C:
Management of Certain Existing Protected Areas
1.
Royal Manas National Park. Carrying out of a program, based initially on a 
demonstration project involving a local community, for the protection of park areas 
against incursions from humans and domestic animals, including the conducting of study 
tours of the park areas to inculcate in local community elders a sense of 
conservation; the taking of measures which would, in exchange for the local 
communities' commitment to conservation, help promote their interests, such as the 
carrying out of community reforestation programs based on valuable tree species, the 
introduction into farming systems of crops or activities less prone to damage by 
wildlife and the provision, where necessary, of suitable facilities to protect 
community areas against incursions from wildlife; and the improvement of park 
infrastructure and provision of additional staff, training, inventories and research 
facilities.
2.
Jigme Dorji Wildlife Sanctuary. Carrying out of a program, similar to that for 
the Royal Manas National Park set forth in Part C.1 of the Program, based initially on 
a demonstration project involving local communities, for the protection of park areas 
against incursions from humans and domestic animals, in  priority areas which could 
include Chomolhari, Lingshi and Gasa/Laya, including the improvement of park 
infrastructure and provision of additional staff, training, inventories and research 
facilities.
Part D:
Development of a New Protected Area (The Black Mountain)
Official gazetting and approval of The Black Mountain or another area as a new 
protected area and the preparation of a detailed management plan, in consultation with 
the local communities and government officials, staff recruitment and training and the 
construction of park infrastructure therefor.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of Good and Works
1.
Vehicles and survey and GIS equipment shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
2.
Other goods may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison 
of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
3.
Civil works may be carried out on a force account basis in accordance with, and 
subject to, the provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation
Page  8
1.
Department of Forestry. DOF shall be responsible for the day-to-day 
implementation of the Program. Such responsibility shall be exercised primarily 
through NCD as established under Part A.1 of the Program, with other government 
departments and agencies and NGOs participating as necessary.
2.
BTF Management Board. (a) MB shall, with respect to the Program, be responsible, 
subject to the provisions of MOU, for: (i) providing policy and program guidance; (ii) 
approving the annual work program and budget; (iii) providing annual expenditure 
estimates to UNDP to facilitate the timely release of funds; (iv) appointing the 
Program Coordinator (PC) referred to in paragraph 3 of this Schedule; and (v) 
reviewing the PC's status reports on the progress of activities under the Program and 
its financial position.
(b)
MB shall initially consist of five members, three nominated by the 
Recipient, one of whom shall be chairman, and one each nominated by UNDP and WWF.
(c)
MB shall meet at least once a year and its decisions shall require the 
votes of at least four out of its five members in favor. Reports of MB's decisions and 
proceedings shall be furnished to the Trustee.
3.
Program Coordinator. (a) A Program Coordinator (PC) shall be appointed, through 
MB, with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
satisfactory to the Trustee.
(b)
PC, who shall be located in NCD, shall be responsible, inter alia, for: 
(i) day-to-day coordination of Program activities to be carried out by DOF and other 
agencies and departments of the Recipient or NGOs, as the case may be; (ii) 
preparation of Program proposals for funding by BTF; (iii) oversight of Program 
implementation, reporting and evaluation activities; (iv) reporting to MB on the 
status of Program activities; and (v) liaison and coordination between MB, on the one 
hand, and the Recipient's departments and agencies responsible for the carrying out of 
the Program, BTF donors and UNDP, on the other hand.
4.
Consultants. The Recipient shall, not later than December 31, 1992, enter into 
arrangements with the Other Donors for the employment and financing from resources 
other than those of BTF of expatriate consultants required for the purposes of the 
surveys and inventories to be carried out under Part B of the Program.
B.
Annual Work Program
5.
The Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee, for its review and comment, each 
annual work program prepared by PC for the Program, prior to such work program being 
presented to MB for its approval.
C.
Progress Reports
6.
The Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee, not later than September 30 of each 
year, annual progress reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, on 
the carrying out of the Program.
D.
Mid-Term Review
7.
The Recipient shall, jointly with the Trustee, UNDP and the United Nations 
Environment Programme (UNEP) and not later than June 30, 1995, carry out a mid-term 
review of the Program, and shall, on the basis thereof, propose to MB any adjustments 
as may be warranted in the Program activities and the related organizational and 
operational arrangements.
SCHEDULE 5
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 2(b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
NCD has been provided a full complement of staff consisting of 10 at 
headquarters and 117 in the field stations.
2.
BFI's curriculum has been upgraded, to the satisfaction of the Trustee, with 
increased emphasis on wildlife, protected areas management and community 
participation.
3.
A biological diversity system, satisfactory to the Trustee, has been developed 
within DOF.
Page  9
4.
A revised national protected area system plan, satisfactory to the Trustee, has 
been adopted by the Recipient.
5.
A model detailed management plan, satisfactory to the Trustee, has been 
developed by the Recipient for a new protected area.
6.
The management of the two existing protected areas of the Jigme Dorji Wildlife 
Sanctuary and the Royal Manas National Park has been strengthened by the Recipient to 
the satisfaction of the Trustee.
7.
Four protected areas have been officially gazetted by the Recipient in a manner 
satisfactory to the Trustee.
