                                                                                      95457
                                          Burkina Faso

            Fourth Growth and Competitiveness Development Policy Operation

                                        Chair Summary*
                                          April 2, 2015
       Executive Directors approved a development policy credit in the amount of SDR 35.5
million (US$50 million equivalent) and a development policy grant in the amount of SDR 35.5
million (US$50 million equivalent) to Burkina Faso for the Fourth Growth and Competitiveness
Operation on the terms and conditions set out in the President’s Memorandum.

        Directors expressed support for the program development objectives to enhance the
Government’s ability to: (i) reduce costs in the agriculture and transport sectors; (ii) improve the
transparency and accountability in public resource mobilization and management; and (iii) reduce
vulnerability to shocks. They noted that the operation builds upon previous reforms in the cotton
sector, trade and transportation, public financial management, and transparency in the mining
sector, complementing Burkina Faso’s longer-term development objectives.

       Executive Directors acknowledged the alignment with the WBG’s FY13-FY16 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) and World Bank Group (WBG) strategic goals. They appreciated the
complementary efforts of the World Bank, International Monetary Fund, and European Union to
support the government in key areas of macroeconomic management and reform.

        Directors noted that this operation had been prepared in a vulnerable political environment
and that the transition government had shown firm commitment to implement the agreed reforms.
They supported the operation’s focus on improving resilience by strengthening food security and
the focus on progressive formalization of the transport sector and reduced transport cost. Directors
reiterated the need to expand support for the decentralization agenda, stronger local government
capacity, improved social service delivery, and disaster risk management. They encouraged the
WBG to consider a wider mix of instruments to mitigate vulnerability and reduce the impact of
structural exogenous shocks on Burkina Faso.

        Directors noted the progress made on the creation of the local development fund under the
revised mining code and encouraged the Bank to support the transparent and efficient use of
mining revenues. They welcomed the adoption of the new anticorruption law and noted its
potential to support Burkina Faso’s return to political and economic stability. They also urged the
authorities to accelerate necessary procedures to make the agricultural input fund operational.

        Directors noted the importance of a longer-term plan of engagement with Burkina Faso,
including progress towards a country partnership framework. They emphasized effective support
by development partners during Burkina Faso’s transition to ensure that absorptive capacities and
resources for the reform program are adequate. Directors urged staff to continuously engage with
the authorities and other stakeholders in closely monitoring program risks, particularly in light of
the upcoming elections, to ensure consistency and transparency during implementation.

__________________
*This summary is not an approved record.
