 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14690

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 05/04/2015

               Country: Burkina Faso
             Project ID: P071443                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Bf-competitiveness &         Project Costs (US$M):                      34.30               51.19
                         Enterprise
                         Development Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                       30.70            47.419
      Sector Board:      Financial and Private       Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Sector Development
          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                              03/04/2003
                                                              Closing Date:           06/30/2008          12/31/2013
         Sector(s):       Other industry (30%); Telecommunications (30%); Law and justice (20%); Central
                          government administration (20%)
         Theme(s):        Regulation and competition policy (25%); State-owned enterprise restructuring and
                          privatization (25%); Micro; Small and Medium Enterprise support (24%); Legal institutions for
                          a market economy (13%); Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms (13%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Unurjargal Demberel       Fernando Manibog        Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The original project development objective (PDO) as stated in the Development Financing Agreement (2003,
    DFA, Schedule 2, p.18) was "to assist the Borrower to improve the competitiveness of its economy through
    private sector development, mitigation of constraints to SMEs development, and improved producer to market
    linkages".

    The PDO as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p.2) was "to assist Burkina Faso to improve the
    competitiveness of its economy through privatization and utility reform, investment climate improvement and
    private sector institutional development, and mitigation of constraints to small and medium enterprise
    development".

    The PDO was simplified and refined at the project's first restructuring (2008, Project Paper, Annex 2, p.9) as "to
    assist the Borrower to create conditions for improved competitiveness and more dynamic enterprise
    development".

    Further, the PDO was revised in the Additional Financing Agreement (2011, AF, Schedule 1, p.5) as "to
    contribute to private sector development in Burkina Faso by creating conditions for improved competitiveness,
    enterprise development and investment promotion".

    For the purpose of this IEG ICR Review, and in line with IEG evaluation guidelines, the statement of the original
    objectives from the 2003 DFA will be assessed in terms of the overall objective of improving the competitiveness
    of Burkina Faso's economy, which would be pursued through three specific sub-objectives: (1) private sector
    development; (2) mitigation of constraints to SMEs development; and (3) improved producer to market linkages.

    The 2008 and 2011 re-statements of the project objectives are substantively similar, except for the addition of an
   investment promotion sub-objective in 2011. For the purpose of the split rating approach in this IEG ICR Review,
   and in line with IEG evaluation guidelines, the revised objectives from the 2011 restructuring and Additional
   Financing will be assessed in terms of the overall objective of creating conditions for improved competitiveness of
   Burkina Faso's economy, which, after the 2011 restructuring, would be pursued through three specific
   sub-objectives: (1) private sector development; (2) enterprise development; and (3) investment promotion.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 12/20/2010

c. Components:

   Original Components

   1. Privatization and utility reform (appraisal US$ 15.48 million; actual US$ 7.76 million): Through privatization,
   this component sought to support the government through consulting services and training for (i) streamlining
   privatization regulations, procedures and decision-making processes; (ii) implementing specific transactions; and
   (iii) carrying out a privatization communication campaign. The utility reform sought to deepen the reforms in areas
   including telecommunications, energy, and air transport by assisting the government in (i) strengthening capacity
   of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications and the telecommunications regulator; (ii) supporting the
   development of information and communication technologies; (iii) devising regulatory framework for the energy
   sector and building and strengthening capacity of the energy regulator; and (iv) strengthening capacity of the
   national civil aviation authority to regulate the air transport sector and streamlining Civil Aeronautic Code and air
   transport regulations.

   Note: With the project's first restructuring in 2008, privatization of the national electric and hydrocarbons
   companies was no longer pursued and a new focus was placed on improving their performance and operational
   efficiency. The project's activities for rural telecoms were dropped, while new efforts were added to support the
   Ministry of Energy and Mines.

   2. Enterprise development (appraisal US$ 11.22 million; actual US$ 19.83 million) aimed to assist the
   government through consulting services and training in: (i) improving the commercial legislative and regulatory
   framework through the preparation and implementation of an action plan for the harmonization of the
   Organisation for Harmonisation of African Business Laws and national laws; capacity building of judges,
   magistrates and court administrators; strengthening of the commercial courts and an arbitration center;
   strengthening of the Register of Commercial and Personal Property Transactions, the Antitrust Commission and
   the Ministry of Commerce, Enterprise Promotion and Handicrafts; implementation of policy proposals and an
   action plan for removing administrative barriers to investment and streamlining administrative regulations and
   procedures; and annual conferences on national economic competitiveness; (ii) the provision of non-financial
   business development services to SMEs through capacity building of the government's entrepreneurship center
   (MEBF); matching grants for firm level consultancies and development and delivery of training services; and (iii)
   the development of microfinance services through strengthening of the supervisory agency for microfinance;
   development and implementation of a national policy and strategy for the financing of the rural sector and for
   SMEs development; and (c) design and implementation of a program to build an effective partnership in the
   microfinance sector.

   Note: With the project's first restructuring in 2008, the resources were increased for strengthening the MEBF and
   expanding the scope of investment climate activities. The 2011 AF further scaled up enterprise development
   activities, added new activities on investment promotion, investment climate and access to financial services.

   3. Project implementation and audit (appraisal US$ 2.23 million; actual US$ 3.35 million) entailed the provision of
   technical assistance and financing to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to implement, coordinate, monitor,
   evaluate and audit the Project.

   Revised Components

   1. Enterprise development , investment promotion and investment climate activities (original AF US$ 12 million;
   actual US$ 13.15 million) covered consulting services, training and operational costs related to (i) continuation of
   the administrative and regulatory reforms to improve the business environment by assisting the government to
   formulate a policy framework for reforming the existing legislation and policies on investments; strengthen the
   Permanent Secretariat of the Presidential Investment Council; and create and build capacity of the Investment
   Promotion Agency; and rationalize investment and export promotion agencies; and (ii) scaling up the existing
   matching grant to help SMEs increase labor productivity and enhance competitiveness and supporting the MEBF
   in implementation of its 2010-2013 strategic business plan.

   2. Access to financial services (original AF US$ 6 million; actual US$ 3.23 million) covered (i) studies in the
   areas of warehouse receipt-financing, mobile banking, non-bank outsourcing, electronic money service and
   leasing in order to improve access to financial services for SMEs through regulatory reforms; and training for
   strengthening the Ministry of Economy and Finance and its directorate responsible for microfinance; (ii) technical
   assistance and training to financial institutions to develop new lending techniques, new instruments and financial
   products for SMEs and rural finance; and (iii) strategy support for non-bank financial institutions such as the
   government’s entity responsible for postal services, the public and private sector pension schemes and the credit
   guarantee scheme for SMEs.

   3. Project management (original AF US$ 1.5 million; actual US$ 6.18 million) was to finance activities to
   strengthen the project implementing entity’s capacity to manage the project.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: Total project costs at closure amounted to US$ 51.19 million compared with US$ 34.30 million
   estimated at appraisal. The difference was primarily due to the additional financing of US$ 20 million approved at
   the second restructuring.

   Financing: The project was financed by an IDA credit and grant of US$ 47.19 million relative to US$ 30.70 million
   estimated at appraisal, with the difference being primarily due to the additional financing of US$ 20 million
   approved at the second restructuring. There was no other external financing.

   Borrower Contribution: The government provided financing in the amount of US$ 3.77 million, slightly higher than
   US$ 3.6 million estimated at appraisal.

   Dates:
        The project closed on December 31, 2013, 5 and half years after the original closing date at appraisal.
        The first restructuring (June 12, 2008) that was approved at the level of bank management refined the PDO
         and performance indicators; increased IDA cost-sharing to 100 percent; introduced a steering committee to
         oversee the activities of the project coordination unit (PCU); and extended the project closing date from June
         30, 2008 to December 31, 2010.
        The second restructuring (November 24, 2010) that was approved by the Board revised the PDO and
         performance indicators; provided an additional financing of US$ 20 million through IDA grant; closed the
         PCU with MEBF taking over the implementation, coordination and oversight of the project; and extended the
         project closing date to December 31, 2013.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Original Objective

   Substantial

   The original PDO was "to improve the competitiveness of Burkina Faso's economy, which would be pursued
   through three specific sub-objectives: (1) private sector development; (2) mitigation of constraints to SMEs
   development; and (3) improved producer to market linkages". While the PDO would seem ambitious when seen
   within the context of this TA project alone, it was consistent with Burkina Faso's 2011-2015 Strategy for
   Accelerated Growth and Sustained Development that incorporates promotion of private sector-led growth (growth
   poles; SMEs), structural reforms in the area of the business environment; and building up of economic
   infrastructure. The objectives were also relevant to the latest Bank Country Partnership Strategy (FY13-16)
   whose first strategic objective (Accelerate inclusive and sustained economic growth) included measures to
   enhance the business environment for investors by promoting competitiveness, productivity, and employment;
   facilitate access to financing, especially for micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs); and improve access
   to energy, transport, and information and communications technology (ICT). Moreover, the PDO was relevant to
   country conditions at the time of appraisal addressing the government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
   (PRSP) objectives to promote the private sector through lowering input costs, increasing factor productivity,
   encouraging private initiative and supporting activities to generate income and create jobs. It therefore was
   consistent with the objectives of six Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) that pursued major policy and
   reform actions, including legal and regulatory decisions, structural reforms among institutions, privatizations, etc.,
   with this TA project supporting the institutional and other capacity-building needs to facilitate the achievement of
   those PRSC outcomes.

   Revised Objective

   Substantial

   The revised PDO was " to create conditions for improved competitiveness of Burkina Faso's economy, which
   would be pursued through three specific sub-objectives: (1) private sector development; (2) enterprise
   development; and (3) investment promotion". The sub-objective for investment promotion was added at the AF
   and second restructuring in 2011. These revised objectives were relevant to the Burkina Faso's 2011-2015
   Strategy for Accelerated Growth and Sustained Development and the latest Bank Country Partnership Strategy
   (FY13-16). They were also responsive to the government's increased focus on investment climate reforms and
   strengthening of related institutions.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Original Objective

   Substantial

   Looking at this TA project alone, its original results framework had significant shortcomings as the causal link
   between the project's activities, outputs, outcomes and objectives was weak. In particular, the objective "to
   improve the competitiveness of the economy" was ambitious given the technical assistance nature of the project.
   Also, many indicators were vague and posed difficulties in measuring or attributing results of the project.

   The activities of the project were diverse with a range of interventions at both the economy-level and enterprise
   level:
      The divestiture from the public utilities was expected to result in reduced factor costs and increased access
        to these services. In this regard, the project design included activities to support reform and regulatory
        capacity building in the telecommunications, power, hydrocarbons and air transport sectors (Component 1).
        While the project clearly envisaged a specific privatization transaction in the telecommunications sector, the
        options were not clear for other sectors. As privatization depends not only on government commitment, but
        also the interest of the private sector as well, the project's regulatory reform and capacity building activities
        alone could not have been realistically expected to lead to divestiture of all public utilities.
      The mitigation of constraints was expected to accelerate the enterprise development. In this regard, the
        project design included activities to improve the legal and regulatory environment, remove administrative
        barriers to investment, improve access to business development services and ease access to financing
        (Component 2). It was reasonable to expect that the streamlining of regulations and procedures would lower
        cost of doing business in Burkina Faso, although these usually have a long gestation time due to policy lags.
        As the project used the matching grant scheme for cost sharing, it was plausible to anticipate that the
        availability and access to business development services would improve for the targeted enterprises. The
        project targeted to deliver the business development services to 300 enterprises and associations, which
        represented about 15 percent of the total number of registered private sector enterprises at the time of
        project appraisal (PAD, p.9). In the microfinance sector, the project design involved the support for
        supervisory agency, development of a national policy and strategy for the financing of the rural sector and for
        SME development and support to the microfinance apex institution. These activities could not have been
        realistically expected to lead to the increased volume of lending by microfinance institutions to enterprises.

   The institutional capacity constraints have not been taken into account and addressed at the project design
   stage, especially with regards to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) that coordinated the public sector and
   ministry level reforms and activities of the project. As ICR (p.5) reports, the PCU had a longer learning curve and
   had a difficulty engaging effectively all participating ministries. Ultimately, this contributed to substantial delays in
   the project implementation and lower than expected performance especially prior to the project's first
   restructuring.
   Hence, when assessed in isolation, the project's relevance of design seem modest. However, the relevance of
   design would be substantial when the project is assessed in the larger context of what the Bank was pursuing in
   the Private Sector Assistance Project (PSAP), the six parallel Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) and
   this TA project to support the country's longer-term PRSP objectives:
      As the ICR (p.1) notes, "The project was designed to assist the government in implementing its poverty
        reduction strategy. The strategy targeted long-term, private sector development objectives including the
        lowering of input costs, increasing productivity, encouraging entrepreneurial behavior and supporting income
        generating and job creating activities through SME development."
      Key policy issues related to this privatization program and to market liberalization were to be dealt with in
        coordination with the PRSCs (PAD p. 10). Also, there was a separate energy sector reform project that dealt
        with operational aspects in the electricity sector;
      According to the IEG ICR Review for PRSC IV project, the first component of which was on growth and
        employment creation included reforms in the rural, telecom, and energy sectors as well as investment
        climate (labor market, regulatory framework) to lower factor costs, increase productivity and favor new
        investments. The outcomes were reported as: "The privatization of ONATEL was completed; according to
        the ICR, the average cost of a telephone call decreased by about 10% between 2005-2006 and the number
        of subscribers to mobile phones increased by 61 percent. There was no progress in the liberalization of the
        energy sector, a key factor in reducing costs and improving competitiveness.", "In privatization, progress
        was slow as political consensus had to be built and, in PSD, many bureaucratic impediments need to be
        removed to attract investors, a time consuming process."

   Revised Objective

   Substantial

   The project's PDO and results framework have been refined at the first restructuring, enhancing the measurability
   of outcome indicators and dropping those that could not be measured in the project timeframe or attributed to it.

   The first restructuring scaled up the project's enterprise development and investment climate activities through
   the MEBF (Original Component 2, Revised Component 1) that were reasonably expected to lead to lower cost of
   doing business in Burkina Faso. These efforts were further scaled up and strengthened by the AF and second
   restructuring.

   The AF and second restructuring added new activities for investment promotion and access to financial services.
   The strengthening of the investment promotion institutions (Revised Component 1) was expected to facilitate
   private investment, though it could not have been reasonably expected to materialize within the project
   implementation timeframe. The technical assistance to financial institutions (Revised Component 2) was
   expected to ease financing for enterprises, which however is also dependent on the lending resorces available to
   these institutions.

   The institutional capacity of the public sector PCU has been strengthened at the first restructuring, whilst the
   MEBF's performance on the private sector side has been satisfactory. At the second restructuring later, MEBF
   took over the responsibility for the project management and coordination.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Original objective

   The original overall objective was to improve the competitiveness of Burkina Faso's economy, which was to be
   pursued through three specific sub-objectives: (1) private sector development; (2) mitigation of constraints to
   SMEs development; and (3) improved producer to market linkages."

   PDO 1: Private Sector Development - Substantial

   Outputs
     The divestment options have been prepared by the Privatization Committee for 23 state enterprises (the ICR
       Annex 2, Table 3, p.25).
     The privatization transaction was prepared for the national telecommunication company (ONATEL). The
       capacity building technical assistance was carried out for the telecommunications regulator (ARTEL). It
       should be noted that a significant groundwork (e.g., the legal and regulatory framework, regulator in place,
       etc.) for this privatization had been done by the previous and parallel Bank projects, such as PSAP and
       PRSCs. The ICT legislation was drafted.
    The energy sector law was revised, but it came with delays. The ICR does not elaborate on this, but
     according to the IEG's review of the simplified ICR for the PRSC 4 (p078994) project in 2006, there was a
     disagreement between government and donors on revision of a 1998 law to adapt the legal and regulatory
     framework in the energy sector. The decree for the creation of the energy regulator had been prepared by
     the time of the restructuring (the ICR Annex 2, Table 3, p.25). The ICR p.9 notes that privatization of the
     energy sector was eventually abandoned with the project settling for improvement of management and
     service delivery. Upon IEG's request, the team clarified that the reason was a lack of political will, and the
     lack of a compelling enough case for privatization to overcome it. Also, the team explained that there were
     other power utility privatizations in West Africa (Senegal, Mali) at the time that did not go well and did not
     improve those countries’ power situation that provided a case to focus on the efficiency of the organization
     rather than privatization.
    The ICR (p.10) reports that the project made major contributions to the mining code and helped build the
     capacity of the Ministry of Mines and Energy to manage the sector.

Outcomes
  The ONATEL was privatized in December 2006. The teledensity in Burkina Faso increased from 1.5 lines to
    31.3 lines per 100 inhabitants by 2010 (the ICR Annex 2, Table 3, p.25). The ICR (p.25) notes that increase
    in the revenue collected by ARTEL from enhanced spectrum and frequency of management reached
    16.39% in 2009 and -2.7% (through September) in 2010, compared to the respective year targets of 10%
    and 15%. The ICT legislation was adopted in 2009. No information is available in the ICR with respect to the
    project's impact on cost reduction for the telecommunications services (the indicator was dropped).
  The energy sector law was adopted in November 2007 (the ICR Annex 2, Table 3, p.24). The electricity
    regulatory agency was created and regulator appointed in 2009 (the ICR Annex 2, Table 3, p.24). The M&E
    data in the ICR Annex 2, Table 3, p.25 suggests that the national electric company (SONABEL) improved its
    bill collection rate from 95% in 2009 to 98.75% in 2013, surpassing the target of 98%. This data was also
    referenced in the government's comments to the ICR (the ICR Annex 5, p.38).
  The ICR (p.28) notes that objectives were met for indicators tracking the performance of the Ministry of
    Mines and Energy. However, the actual M&E data presented in the ICR (p.25) suggests that there was no
    change in the Number of inspection mission of mining field activities and the Number of EITI reports
    disclosed in 2009 and 2010, while the data was not reported for the Number of mineral samples analyzed
    per day.

PDO 2: Mitigation of constraints for SMEs development - Substantial

Outputs
  140 magistrates were trained in business law by 2007 (the ICR p.6). The arbitration and mediation center
    became operational in early 2008 (the ICR p.24).
  The Decree was signed by the Ministry of Justice to transfer old records of the registered companies to the
    new public business register (RCCM). The one-stop shop for business creation (CEFORE) was created (the
    ICR p.9). The one-stop shop for construction permit (CEFAC) became operational in the government's
    entrepreneurship center (MEBF) in 2009 (the ICR p.26). 10 branches of the MEBF were opened in the
    country’s main economic regions by 2013 (the ICR p.11).
  As the ICR (p.11) reports, the project helped establish the legal framework for leasing and related
    regulations and supported the strengthening of the Burkina Faso Interbank Guarantee Corporation (
    SOFIGIB). With respect to national post office (SONAPOST), the ICR contains little information, however the
    team clarified upon IEG request that the project assisted its strengthening by developing a strategy and
    supporting the interconnection of field offices. The Terms of Reference for Public Sector Employee Pension
    Fund (CARFO) and National Social Security Fund (CNSS) study was adopted in 2012 and study on best
    practices for the new regime was completed in 2013 (the ICR p.31).

Outcomes
  267 commercial cases were resolved by arbitration and mediation by 2012, releasing about $504 million that
    was in disputes (the ICR p.9).
  83% of old records of registered enterprises were transferred to the new RCCM (the ICR, the summary
    indicator results table). The number of days needed to create an enterprise decreased from 45 days in 2004
    to 7 days in 2010 and 5 days in 2013 (the ICR p.30). The number of days to obtain a construction license
    decreased from 226 days in 2004 to 30 days in 2010 (the ICR p.26). The number of enterprises registered
    with assistance from the project reached 28,516 by 2013, compared to the original target of 15,000 and the
    AF target of 27,000 (the ICR p.30). The number of enterprises and business associations using MEBF
    business development services reached 594 by 2010 (the ICR p.26), compared to the original target of 300.
    Under AF, the number of additional enterprises receiving support from MEBF reached 1,383 in 2013 (the
    ICR p.30), surpassing the AF target of 850 for the year. The MEBF's operating cost covered by its for fee
    activities and member contribution increased to 85% in 2012 from 70% in 2010 and in line with the year's
     target of 85% (the ICR p.30; no data was available for 2013). The project was not able to quantify the effects
     of the matching grants that were used to enable the development of business development services by
     private providers and access to these services by enterprises. However, the beneficiary survey results
     suggest that the subsidies overall had a direct positive impact on improving the performance of the
     beneficiary enterprises (the ICR Annex 5, p.35).
    The M&E data in the ICR (p.24) suggests that by 2010 the project exceeded targets for the annual increase
     in microfinance institutions (MFIs)’ lending volume and ratio of non-performing loans in their portfolios. As
     the project did not provide direct support to financial institutions before 2010, these results could not be
     reasonably attributed to the project. The AF and second restructuring in 2011 added new activities for
     technical assistance to bank and non-bank financial institutions. In this period, ratio of non-performing loans
     in MFI portfolios was reported as ranging between 4.5-5.2% in 2011-2013, which was in line with targets
     except in 2013 (the ICR p.31). Moreover, the ICR (p.11) reports that with the project's assistance the
     Interbank Guarantee Corporation (SOFIGIB) grew its customer base to reach over 900 clients. The ICR also
     mentions that SOFIGIB was created during the life of the project and catalyzed over $20 million in bank
     credit to the private sector through the provision of partial credit guarantees. However, IEG notes that
     establishment of this institution was not due to the project and hence the above results cannot be accurately
     attributed to the project. Nevertheless, the beneficiary survey results suggest that the project helped improve
     the visibility of SOFIGIB (the ICR, Annex 5 p.39). The ICR contains little information on results of project's
     activities with respect to the national post office (SONAPOST), however, the beneficiary survey results
     suggest that the quality of their services improved (the ICR Annex 5, p.39). Also little information was
     available in the ICR on the results of the project's assistance to the pension schemes, although the M&E
     data suggests that the targets were not met due to delays. Based on the M&E data presented in the ICR
     (p.31), 51,200 mobile banking accounts have been opened by 2013, surpassing the target of 50,000.
     However, the ICR provides no elaboration on how this was achieved and how it further contributed to
     facilitating access to financing for enterprises.
    By 2013, 19,862 jobs on a cumulative basis have been created (the ICR p.12) by enterprises supported by
     the project, compared to the original target of 2,000 and the AF target of 15,792.

PDO 3: Improved producer to market linkages - Modest

Outputs
  The civil aeronautic code was updated to be in line with ICAO standards in 2009. As per the Project paper in
    2008, the support in the air transport regulation was no longer needed as much as originally anticipated.

Outcomes
  The civil aeronautic code was adopted in 2010 (the ICR Annex 2, Table 3, p.25).

Efficacy is rated substantial for two objectives and modest for the third objective. As such it is reasonable to
conclude that the project made a substantial progress in achieving the overall objective of increasing the
country's competitiveness.


Revised objective

The revised overall objective was to create conditions for improved competitiveness of Burkina Faso's economy,
which was to be pursued through three specific sub-objectives: (1) private sector development; (2) enterprise
development; and (3) investment promotion.

PDO 1: Private Sector Development - Substantial

Outputs
  The divestment options have been prepared by the Privatization Committee for 23 state enterprises (the ICR
    Annex 2, Table 3, p.25).
  The privatization transaction was prepared for the national telecommunication company (ONATEL). The
    capacity building technical assistance was carried out for the telecommunications regulator (ARTEL). It
    should be noted that a significant groundwork (e.g., the legal and regulatory framework, regulator in place,
    etc.) for this privatization had been done by the previous and parallel Bank projects, such as PSAP and
    PRSCs. The ICT legislation was drafted.
  The energy sector law was revised, but it came with delays. The ICR does not elaborate on this, but
    according to the IEG's review of the simplified ICR for the PRSC 4 (p078994) project in 2006, there was a
    disagreement between government and donors on revision of a 1998 law to adapt the legal and regulatory
    framework in the energy sector. The decree for the creation of the energy regulator had been prepared by
    the time of the restructuring (the ICR Annex 2, Table 3, p.25). The ICR p.9 notes that privatization of the
     energy sector was eventually abandoned with the project settling for improvement of management and
     service delivery. Upon IEG's request, the team clarified that the reason was a lack of political will, and the
     lack of a compelling enough case for privatization to overcome it. Also, the team explained that there were
     other power utility privatizations in West Africa (Senegal, Mali) at the time that did not go well and did not
     improve those countries’ power situation that provided a case to focus on the efficiency of the organization
     rather than privatization.
    The ICR (p.10) reports that the project made major contributions to the mining code and helped build the
     capacity of the Ministry of Mines and Energy to manage the sector.

Outcomes
  The ONATEL was privatized in December 2006. The teledensity in Burkina Faso increased from 1.5 lines to
    31.3 lines per 100 inhabitants by 2010 (the ICR Annex 2, Table 3, p.25). The ICR (p.25) notes that increase
    in the revenue collected by ARTEL from enhanced spectrum and frequency of management reached
    16.39% in 2009 and -2.7% (through September) in 2010, compared to the respective year targets of 10%
    and 15%. The ICT legislation was adopted in 2009. No information is available in the ICR with respect to the
    project's impact on cost reduction for the telecommunications services (the indicator was dropped).
  The energy sector law was adopted in November 2007 (the ICR Annex 2, Table 3, p.24). The electricity
    regulatory agency was created and regulator appointed in 2009 (the ICR Annex 2, Table 3, p.24). The M&E
    data in the ICR Annex 2, Table 3 (p.25) suggests that the national electric company (SONABEL) improved
    its bill collection rate from 95% in 2009 to 98.75% in 2013, surpassing the target of 98%. This data was also
    referenced in the government's comments to the ICR (the ICR p.38).
  The ICR (p.28) notes that objectives were met for indicators tracking the performance of the Ministry of
    Mines and Energy. However, the actual M&E data presented in the ICR (p.25) suggests that there was no
    change in the Number of inspection mission of mining field activities and the Number of EITI reports
    disclosed in 2009 and 2010, while the data was not reported for the Number of mineral samples analyzed
    per day.

PDO 2: Enterprise development - Substantial

Outputs

    140 magistrates were trained in business law by 2007 (the ICR p.6). The arbitration and mediation center
     became operational in early 2008 (the ICR p.24).
    The Decree was signed by the Ministry of Justice to transfer old records of the registered companies to the
     new public business register (RCCM). The one-stop shop for business creation (CEFORE) was created (the
     ICR p.9). The one-stop shop for construction permit (CEFAC) became operational in the government's
     entrepreneurship center (MEBF) in 2009 (the ICR p.26). 10 branches of the MEBF were opened in the
     country’s main economic regions by 2013 (the ICR p.11).
    As the ICR (p.11) reports, the project helped establish the legal framework for leasing and related
     regulations and supported the strengthening of the Burkina Faso Interbank Guarantee Corporation
     (SOFIGIB). With respect to national post office (SONAPOST), the ICR contains little information, however
     the team clarified upon IEG request that the project assisted its strengthening by developing a strategy and
     supporting the interconnection of field offices. The Terms of Reference for Public Sector Employee Pension
     Fund (CARFO) and National Social Security Fund (CNSS) study was adopted in 2012 and study on best
     practices for the new regime was completed in 2013 (the ICR p.31).

Outcomes

    267 commercial cases were resolved by arbitration and mediation by 2012, releasing about $504 million that
     was in disputes (the ICR p.9).
    83% of old records of registered enterprises were transferred to the new RCCM (the ICR, the summary
     indicator results table). The number of days needed to create an enterprise decreased from 45 days in 2004
     to 7 days in 2010 and 5 days in 2013 (the ICR p.30). The number of days to obtain a construction license
     decreased from 226 days in 2004 to 30 days in 2010 (the ICR p.26). The number of enterprises registered
     with assistance from the project reached 28,516 by 2013, compared to the original target of 15,000 and the
     AF target of 27,000 (the ICR p.30). The number of enterprises and business associations using MEBF
     business development services reached 594 by 2010 (the ICR p.26), compared to the original target of 300.
     Under AF, the number of additional enterprises receiving support from MEBF reached 1,383 in 2013 (the
     ICR p.30), surpassing the AF target of 850 for the year. The MEBF's operating cost covered by its for fee
     activities and member contribution increased to 85% in 2012 from 70% in 2010 and in line with the year's
     target of 85% (the ICR (p.30); no data was available for 2013). The project was not able to quantify the
     effects of the matching grants that were used to enable the development of business development services
     by private providers and access to these services by enterprises. However, the beneficiary survey results
         suggest that the subsidies overall had a direct positive impact on improving the performance of the
         beneficiary enterprises (the ICR Annex 5, p.35).
        The M&E data in the ICR (p.24) suggests that by 2010 the project exceeded targets for the annual increase
         in microfinance institutions (MFIs)’ lending volume and ratio of non-performing loans in their portfolios. As
         the project did not provide direct support to financial institutions before 2010, these results could not be
         reasonably attributed to the project. The AF and second restructuring in 2011 added new activities for
         technical assistance to bank and non-bank financial institutions. In this period, ratio of non-performing loans
         in MFI portfolios was reported as ranging between 4.5-5.2% in 2011-2013, which was in line with targets
         except in 2013 (the ICR p.31). Moreover, the ICR (p.11) reports that with the project's assistance the
         Interbank Guarantee Corporation (SOFIGIB) grew its customer base to reach over 900 clients. The ICR also
         mentions that SOFIGIB was created during the life of the project and catalyzed over $20 million in bank
         credit to the private sector through the provision of partial credit guarantees. However, IEG notes that
         establishment of this institution was not due to the project and hence the above results cannot be accurately
         attributed to the project. Nevertheless, the beneficiary survey results suggest that the project helped improve
         the visibility of SOFIGIB (the ICR, Annex 5 p.39). The ICR contains little information on results of project's
         activities with respect to the national post office (SONAPOST), however, the beneficiary survey results
         suggest that the quality of their services improved (the ICR Annex 5, p.39). Also little information was
         available in the ICR on the results of the project's assistance to the pension schemes, although the M&E
         data suggests that the targets were not met due to delays. Based on the M&E data presented in the ICR
         (p.31), 51,200 mobile banking accounts have been opened by 2013, surpassing the target of 50,000.
         However, the ICR provides no elaboration on how this was achieved and how it further contributed to
         facilitating access to financing for enterprises.
        By 2013, 19,862 jobs on a cumulative basis have been created (the ICR p.12) by enterprises supported by
         the project, compared to the original target of 2,000 and the AF target of 15,792.

    PDO 3: Creating conditions for investment promotion - Modest

    Outputs

        The Investment Code provisions on investor-state disputes and capital transfers was revised in 2011 (the
         ICR p.30). The ICR did not provide sufficient information with respect to outputs of tax reform activities.
        The Investment Promotion Agency (API) was created in 2012. The Director General was Recruited and the
         Business plan was adopted in 2013 (the ICR p.30). Prior to the second restructuring, the project supported
         creation and operation of the Presidential Investment Council (CPI). The M&E framework was established
         for tracking the impact of investment promotion efforts (the ICR p.11).

    Outcomes

        The revised investment code was targeted to be adopted in 2013, but it did not materialize by the project
         closure. The ICR is silent with respect to outcomes of tax reform activities, however, the project team
         clarified that these were not core activities and hence no detail was provided in the ICR.
        No international firms have been attracted by the CPI and API by 2013 (the ICR p.30). The ICR attributed
         this to delays in establishing the agency due to the lengthy recruitment process for the director and some
         procurement issues.

    Efficacy is rated substantial for two objectives and modest for the third objective. As such it is reasonable to
    conclude that the project made a substantial progress in achieving the overall objective of creating conditions for
    increased competitiveness of the country.


5. Efficiency:

Modest

    Economic Efficiency

    At appraisal, a cost-benefit analysis was carried out based on the economic impact of 2,120 jobs expected to be
    created through privatization of public enterprises with the project's assistance and provision of matching grants
    to SMEs throughout the expected 5-year lifetime of the project. The ICR (p.12) pointed out that the economic
    analysis at closure varies from the one done at appraisal and hence the results are not comparable. The ICR's
    ERR estimate of the minimum 26.62% was based on the economic impact of over 19,000 jobs created by the
    project against total project disbursements over the project's 10-year actual lifetime. Given that not all the project
    funds were devoted to job creation, the ICR noted that the ERR is likely higher.
   Administrative & Implementation Efficiency

   There were a number of efficiency issues during the project implementation. The project took more than nine
   months to put in place staff and operating procedures for the project implementing units (PCU and MEBF) and
   comply with conditions for effectiveness (the ICR p.5). There were delays in procurement and disbursement of
   the project especially prior to the first restructuring. The ICR reports that opinions of non-objection seemed to
   take longer than usual (p.16) and that slow disbursement was a major reason for the project's unsatisfactory
   implementation progress rating (p.6) during this period. Moreover, the project overspent both the original and
   additional financing budget for the project implementation and management (US$ 3.35 million vs. US$ 2.23
   million at appraisal and US$ 6.18 million vs. US$ 1.5 million estimated at additional financing).

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       Yes                                     28.2%                                    78%

   ICR estimate                    Yes                                    26.62%                                    100%
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   This IEG ICR Review is based on the original and revised objectives with weighted ratings for outcomes, in line
   with the harmonized IEG and OPCS Guidelines and the OPCS Guidelines for Implementation Completion &
   Results Reports.

   Under the original project objectives, both relevance of objectives and relevance of design are substantial.
   Efficacy is rated substantial for two objectives and modest for the third objective. Efficiency was modest.

   Under the revised project objectives, both relevance of objectives and relevance of design are substantial.
   Efficacy is rated substantial for two objectives and modest for the third objective. Efficiency was modest.

   Given the 47%/53% split in disbursements (out of the actual IDA disbursement of US$ 47.419 million) between
   the periods before and after the revision of objectives as part of project restructuring, and taking into account the
   modest efficiency ratings under the original and revised project objectives, the overall project outcome is rated as
   moderately satisfactory .

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The project's impacts in terms of creating conditions for enterprise development will likely be sustained given that
   MEBF demonstrated itself as a capable and effective entrepreneurship center advocating for and catering to the
   private sector's needs. There is a moderate risk that the discontinuation of the matching grants would limit access
   to the business development services for some enterprises. However, the fact that MEBF was covering 85% of
   its operational costs by its for fee activities and member contribution (the ICR p.30) in 2012 provides some
   assurance that this risk would be mitigated. As the matching grants supported both demand and supply of these
   services, it is reasonable to assume that there would be a functioning market. With regards to the project's other
   objectives, the capacity was built or strengthened for key institutions in the respective areas such as the
   Privatization Commission, energy regulator, ARTEL, CPI, API, etc. However, continued efforts will be required to
   have the desired results.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
   The design was informed by evidence and research, involving consultation with client organizations,
   beneficiaries, donors and NGOs (ICR p.15) and drew on experience and incorporated the lessons from the
   previous Private Sector Assistance project. Though complex, the design corresponded to the larger Bank
   engagement in the country through the six PRSC projects that pursued major policy and reform actions,
   including legal and regulatory decisions, structural reforms among institutions, privatizations, etc., with this TA
   project supporting the institutional and other capacity building needs to facilitate the achievement of those
   PRSC outcomes. The design of the matching grant fund benefited from the lessons learned and the best'
   practices formulated during the first Africa regional conference of managers of matching grant funds in 2000.
   Safeguards put in place and risk assessment were satisfactory. The minor shortcomings related to the
   government’s implementation capacity and indicator quality, which affected the project's performance at the
   beginning of the project and led to its restructuring as the project took more than nine months to become
   effective, disbursed less than 50% of the planned disbursement at entry in the first five years of
   implementation and completed the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework and baseline data only by
   mid-2005. The ICR finds that indicator quality (with respect to measurability, attribution and timeliness) was
   the most problematic shortcoming that had to be addressed during the implementation.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The ICR reports that supervision was regular with about two field missions held per year during most of the
   project duration and that the task team had adequate skill mix. As described by the ICR, the team maintained
   an open and constructive relationship with the client teams. The team made a number of adjustments over
   the years to adapt with the disbursements and some activities. However, as ICR also points out there were
   shortcomings in the supervision quality prior to the first restructuring. First, issues with the underperformance
   of the PCU were not addressed and the restructuring did not happen until the project was about to close in six
   months. The ICR reports that supervisory mission aide memoires during 2005-2007 could not be located and
   there were cases where opinions of non-objection took longer than usual. These suggest major shortcomings
   in the supervision and administration of the project during this period. However, given that the supervision
   quality eventually improved over the life of the project, IEG agrees with a Moderately Satisfactory rating.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government pursued this ambitious project to advance its PRSP objectives to promote the private sector
   through lowering input costs, increasing factor productivity, encouraging private initiative and supporting
   activities to generate income and create jobs. The government worked closely with the Bank to design the
   project and committed resources for its implementation. While the ICR commends the government's
   willingness to address a wide range of issues through this project, it points out to challenges that the
   government have had in securing sufficient buy-in from ministries and public organizations and coordinating
   effectively the project activities. The project goals such as privatizing the power and hydrocarbon utilities were
   too difficult to achieve and were abandoned. Nonetheless, the ICR reports that the government was
   responsive to recommendations of the Bank and the PCU. It addressed the weakness in the PCU capacity by
   establishing a Steering Committee. The ICR also notes that the government worked constructively with the
   Bank making necessary adjustments in the project to better meet the emerging priorities.


  Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The public sector and ministry level reforms and activities of the project were executed by the PCU whereas
    the private sector part was executed by MEBF. The ICR reports that the performance of the implementing
    units was uneven, with PCU having had a difficulty in effectively engaging all participating ministries and
    disbursing the project funds, while MEBF having been more effective and proactive in delivering results. The
    PCU's weaknesses in financial management and procurement have been addressed at the first restructuring,
    but they continued to require attention from the Bank and the client until the PCU was closed and the project
    management was transferred solely to MEBF at the second restructuring. Another criticism of the PCU relates
    to the fact that the project's baseline and a detailed M&E framework were not completed prior to the project
    effectiveness, but about a year and half later by mid-2005. Safeguards compliance was satisfactory as the
    project complied with the only triggered safeguard policy for Environmental Assessment and there were no
    environmental issues during the project implementation as described by the ICR. With respect to MEBF, the
    ICR reports that it evolved from the project beneficiary to an implementing unit, by taking more responsibility
    for implementation as the project increased focus on access to finance and technical assistance for
    enterprises. The ICR attributes the MEBF's strength to its financial independence, strong management and
    value proposition to constituents.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The original project results framework had a mix of PDO related key outcome indicators and intermediate
   outcome indicators (PAD Annex 1, p.32; DFA Schedule 7, p.34). The baselines were not set up until mid-2005
   even though the project implementation started in late 2003. The results framework had to be revised at the
   project's first restructuring by refining some outcome indicators to enhance their measurability and dropping
   indicators that could not be measured in the project timeframe or attributed to it.


b. M&E Implementation:

   The ICR notes significant changes in the project activities and indicators due to restructurings and reports that
   indicators that had already exceeded or met targets and thus no longer remained a focus of the project activities
   were dropped. Also, the baselines for indicators were re-based and the targets in many cases were reset to
   higher levels to reflect the AF and strengthened efforts of the project. Similarly, new indicators were implemented
   for new activities added at the AF and second restructuring.


c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR provides limited evidence with respect to the M&E utilization by the project’s stakeholders. The ICR
   reports that the project established the M&E framework for tracking investments in Burkina Faso for
   implementation and use by the API and the CPI. The ICR also reports that MEBF performed an impact and
   performance evaluation shortly after project closure. On the Bank’s side, the ICR notes that the mid-term review
   was used to adjust the project activities and address the M&E framework and indicator shortcomings.


M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   This was a technical assistance loan project that was categorized as a Category B project and triggered only the
    safeguard policy for Environmental Assessment (OP/BP4.01). The ICR (p.6) reports that an environmental
    pre-audit was performed during project preparation and disclosed to the public. The ICR further reports that no
    environmental issues arose during project implementation.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial management. The ICR (p.6) reports that there were weaknesses in financial management, which were
    addressed in terms of staffing and systems at the project's first restructuring. The ICR (p.16) mentions that
    auditors endorsed the financial statements of the projects implementation entities. No indication was found in the
    audit reports and project documents that waste of resources was discovered, indicated or implied (ICR, p.13).

    Procurement. The ICR (p.6) reports that the project had difficulty disbursing prior to the first restructuring as only
    about 50 percent of the planned disbursement had occurred by that time. The ICR attributes this to slow learning
    curve of the PCU, cumbersome procurement processes of the client and the Bank, and difficulties in moving
    forward particularly in the areas of energy and rural telecommunications. While actions were taken to strengthen
    procurement capacity of the PCU, the workload issues still required attention from the Bank and the client until
    the PCU was closed and project management reverted to MBEF at the second restructuring.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

There were no apparent unintended impacts.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                       Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Selected lessons from the ICR, with some adaptation of language:

    Broad economic reform and private sector development projects require a proactive portfolio management
    approach. The Bank teams need to be prepared to make adjustments during the project implementation to
    address the changing country context and the client needs.

    Projects addressing multiple sector issues and working with multiple beneficiaries need robust implementing
    partners to be successful . A successful implementation of any complex project requires that the project
    implementation unit has an adequate capacity to effectively manage the project.
    Adequate M&E framework needs to be put in place prior to the project effectiveness to capture the impacts
    accurately. It is essential to design a robust M&E framework ex ante to enable proper evaluation and
    attribution of results.



14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR was candid and analytical in many aspects, but there were significant shortcomings:
      The ICR did not bring out adequately the larger policy and operational context wherein the six parallel
        PRSCs pursued major policy and reform actions, including legal and regulatory decisions, structural reforms
        among institutions, privatizations, etc., with this TA project supporting the institutional and other
        capacity-building needs to facilitate the achievement of those PRSC outcomes.
      Although much information was provided in the ICR, the weight and validity of evidence were weak in some
        aspects: i) the evidence was not clear with respect to results in facilitating access to finance, including new
        retirement regime and mobile banking; ii) a discussion on results of tax reform activities would have been
        useful; and iii) a discussion on all project activities (irrespective of whether they were no longer a focus of the
        project post restructuring), such as energy, hydrocarbons and air transport sector would have been also
        useful so as to provide a full picture for the project. Although the M&E data in the ICR Annex 2 suggested
        some clues, the quality of the ICR could have been strengthened by adding more analyses and discussion
        on these areas.
      There were a few inconsistencies between the M&E tables in the ICR's Results Framework Analysis section
        and the Annex 2 (e.g., number of MEBF branches in 2013, % of records computerized in the RCCM in
        2012). Also, the number of days needed to obtain a construction permit in 2010 was 30 days per the M&E
        data in the Annex 2 (p.26), while the ICR p.10 reported it as 130 days. In the Annex 1, the total actual for the
        AF Component 1 did not match the sum of the sub-component actuals.

    There were other minor errors. There was also a typographical error on p.12 paragraph #63, where a reference to
    the Annex 5 should be corrected to Annex 3. Another typo was found on p.17 paragraph #83, where the amount
    underspent should be $8.5 million instead of $8.5. Lastly, the official version of the ICR submitted to IEG had a
    watermark “Draft” in it and the publicly disclosed version of the ICR could not be found in the Bank’s system. The
    team confirmed that this was the final official version.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
