Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7215-TJ
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
January 8, 1998



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 29, 1997)
Currency Unit           Tajik Rubles
TJR 1           US$ 0.0014
US$1      =     TJR 735
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
The Tajik Ruble replaced the Russian Ruble on May 10, 1996, at an iiitial conversion rate of TJR 1 LRUR 100
RUR per US$ I                       TJR per US$ I
1993   932                          1995    95
1994  2,192                         1996   300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AKF    -    Aga Khan Foundation
CAS    -    Country:Assistance Strategy
CIDA     -    Canadian International Development Agency
CIS    -    Commonwealth of Independent States
CNR    -    Commission for National Reconciliation
DC    -    Direct Contracting
FAO     -    Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GBAO    _    Gorno-Badakshan Autonomous Oblast
IBRD    -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA     -    International Development Association
IS    -    International Shopping
MOTRA       -    Ministry of Transportation and Road Administration
NBF    -    Not-Bank-Financed
NCB    -   National Competitive Bidding
NGO    -    Non-Governmental Organization
OED     -    Operations Evaluation Department
NS    -    National Shopping
PCERP    -   Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project
PCU     -    Project Coordination Unit
PCU/PCERP    -    Project Coordination Sub-Unit for Post-Conflict Reconstruction Project
PHRD      -    Japan Population and Human Resources Development Program
PPAP    -    Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project
SOE    -    Statement of Expenditures
UJNCHR    -    United Nations High Commission for refugees
UNDHA       -    United Nations Department for Humanitarian Affairs
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program
UNMOT    -    United Nations Mission of Observers to Tajikistan
UNOPS    -    United Nations Office for Project Services
UTO     -    United Tajik Opposition
WFP    -    World Food Program
WHO    -    World Health Organization
TAJIKISTAN'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31 
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director:  Ishrat Husain, ECCOI
Sector Director:  Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader:  Margret Thalwitz, ECSIN
Task Team Leader  Felix A. Jakob, ECSIN



REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
I.         BACKGROUND ..........................................           I
A.    Civil War in Tajikistan ..........................................                                           I
B.    June 1997 Peace Agreement ..........................................                                         I
C.    War Damages in the Karategin-Tavildara Valley Area ..........................................2
II.        INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE ........................................3
III.    BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY ..........................................4
A.    World Bank Strategy and Programs in Tajikistan .........................................                     4
B.    Lessons Leamed from  previous Bank/IDA Experience ..........................................4
C.    Rationale for Bank Involvement ..........................................5
D.    Relationship with other Bank/IDA financed Projects ..........................................5
IV.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..........................................6
A   Project Preparation ..........................6
B.  Project Objectives and Design ..........................6
C.  Project Components .........................                                                                   6
D.  Project Cost and Financing Plan ..........................7
E.  Economic Justification ..........................9
F.  Environmental Impact ..........................9
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .......................                                                                           10
A.  Project Organization and Management .........................                                                  10
B.  Implementation Arrangements .........................                                                          10
C.  Mid-Term Review .........................                                                                      12
D. Procurement .........................                                                                           12
E.  Disbursements .........................                                                                        14
F.  Accounts and Auditing .........................                                                                15
G.  Reporting, and Monitoring .........................                                                            15
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................                                                                                   16
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED .....................:                                                  :                             16
ANNEXES
1. Karategin-Tavildara Valley Needs Assessment: Summary
2.   Detailed Cost Tables
3.   Institutional Arrangements
4. Eligibility Criteria for Small Community Works Component
5.  Implementation Plan
6.  Performance Monitoring Indicators
MAP: IBRD 29171



/



L BACKGROUND
A.    Civil War in Tajikistan
I.    Tajikistan is the poorest CIS country, with a 1996 per capita income of US$ 330. Of the
country's 5.8 million inhabitants about 70 percent live in rural areas. Only some seven percent of the
country's 143,000 square kilometers are arable, while the rest consists of mountainous areas.
Agriculture contributes to about 25 percent of GDP and 50 percent of employment. Tajikistan's main
agricultural products are cotton, (which generates about 50 percent of total agricultural production),
vegetables, grains and livestock. The industrial sector accounts for 35 percent of GDP but only for 15
percent of employment. It groups a total of approximately 7,000 state-owned enterprises. Under the
Soviet regime, the easy availability of hydroelectric power greatly influenced the pattern and structure of
this sector and led to the development of aluminum, chemicals and other energy-intensive industries.
2.    Tajikistan became an independent country in 1991 as a result of the breakup of the Former
Soviet Union. Civil war in started in May 1992 as different regional and political groups struggled for a
redistribution of power after the collapse of the Soviet system. The armed conflict continued for the next
four years with varying intensity, major fighting being concentrated between 1992 and 1993. An
estimated 50,000 people lost their lives, 600,000 people were displaced inside the country and some
60,000 fled to neighboring Afghanistan. Probably as many as half a million people emigrated to other
CIS countries for pnimarily economic reasons, among them a great number of professionals and skilled
workers. While during the first two years the heaviest fighting and physical destruction took place in the
south of the country (Khatlon region) and in areas that remained under the control of the Government, in
subsequent years hostilities moved to the center-east of the country (Karategin and Tavildara valleys), an
area controlled by the forces of United Tajik Opposition (UTO).
3.    The war had a severe impact on the whole country as it compounded the effects of the breakup of
the former Soviet Union (which resulted in cutting off trade links and stopping budget transfers that
amounted to up to 40 percent of GDP), bringing most economic activities to a standstill plunging a large
portion of the population into poverty. GDP is estimated to have declined by about 50 percent during the
first half of the 1990s. Increases in military expenditures reduced resources for other more productive or
social sectors. The years of the civil war in Tajikistan also saw the emergence of a number of armed
gangs and paramilitary groups. These groups, which have repeatedly taken hostage Tajik personalities
and personnel of international organizations, constitute a serious threat to security and political stability.
B.    The June 1997 Peace Agreement
4.    A complex and protracted negotiation process between the Government of Tajikistan and UTO
began in 1994 with the signing of a first cear-fire in Teheran and culminated in the signing, in Moscow
on June 27, 1997, of the General Agreement on the Establishment of Peace and National Accord in
Tajikistan. The Peace Agreement lays the foundation for peace in the country and calls for a transitional
period of twelve to eighteen months during which the provisions of the agreement are to be further
defined and implemented. The principal authority for monitoring the implementation of the agreement is
the Commission for National Reconciliation (CNR) chaired by Mr. Said Abdullo Nuri, the leader of the
UTO, and is composed of twenty-six members, half of whom were nominated by the Government and
half by the UTO.



-2 -
5.    The Government's strategy for implementation of the Peace Agreement rests on action programs
for the following areas:
Political Reconciliation and Democratization: Political parties, outlawed in 1993 are being legalized
and parliamentary elections are expected to be held in 1998. A Government reshuffling under which a
number of ministerial positions would be given to the opposition is under discussion.
Repatriation and Reintegration of Internally Displaced Persons and Refugees: With the assistance
of the agencies of the UN system, a major effort is being made to complete the voluntary repatriation of all
refugees at the earliest possible date.
Demobilization and Reintegration of Ex-Combatants: An estimated 5,000 to 7,000 UTO ex-
combatants are being demobilized and provided assistance to help them engage in civilian activities or
being integrated into the Government army. Concurrently, the Tajikistan armed forces will be restructured
and reduced by about thirty percent.
Relief. Reconstruction and Development: Assisted by the donor community, the Government's
relief and reconstruction efforts will focus on three phases: (a) a program of immediate relief and food aid
to allow the most severely affected populations to go through the winter and resume agricultural activities in
Spring 1998; (b) a short-term program of reconstruction of the most essential economic and social services;
and (c) a medium- and longer-term reconstruction and economic redevelopment program that will support
the Government's strive for macro-economic stability, structural reform and resumption of growth
C.    War Damages in the Karategin and Tavildara Valley Area
6.    The Karategin and Tavildara valleys have together a total population of approximately 250,000
people and cover an area of approximately 200 square kilometers, 90% of which is mountainous.
Administratively the area is divided into the five rayons of Darband, Gharm, Jirgital, Tavildara and
Tojikobad. The valleys occupy a key strategic position as they effectively control the roads that link
Dushanbe with the eastern part of the country, particularly the Autonomous Oblast of Gorno-Badakshan
(GBAO), as well as with the Kyrgyz Republic. The area is fertile, has good agricultural potential and,
during the Soviet era, was a net exporter of agricultural products (particularly potatoes, fruit and dairy
products).
7.    The Government and UTO fought for the control of the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area since
1992. The last open fighting occurred in December 1996. As part of the peace negotiation process,
(para 4), a cease fire agreement was signed in January 1997 but left the area under the military control of
the UTO forces. Because it was controlled by the opposition, the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area
remained cut off from the rest of the country for a several years and, unlike the other conflict areas in the
south of the Tajikistan, received no support from the Government. It also obtained very little help from
the international community with the exception of assistance provided by the United Nations Office for
Project Services (UNOPS), the Aga Khan Foundation (AKF), and a German NGO (German Agro
Action). Even in the absence of open fighting, the continuing state of war and insecurity as well as the
lack of monetary resources prevented any regular maintenance and repair work for infrastructure and
community facilities. The deterioration of the transport conditions, in particular, effectively cut off the
local communities from their traditional urban markets for vegetables, fruit and dairy products in other
parts of the country and forced them to revert to subsistence farming.



-3 -
8.    A preliminary assessment of reconstruction needs and an initial consultation with stakeholders
was conducted in the five rayons in September/October 1997 by the World Bank and the United Nations
Office for Project Services (UNOPS), in collaboration with local authorities. A summary of this
assessment in Annex 1. The damage to the Karategin Valley is as much in the radical decline in
economic activity, especially in the growing and marketing of agricultural products, as it is in physical
deterioration of infrastructure and the loss of social services. The assessment focused on identifying
those needs that will have an important impact on peoples' lives during the next two years, rather than on
a restoration of the complete physical and social infrastructure as it was before the civil war. On this
basis, the assessment identified almost US$ 24 million in physical rehabilitation costs including US$ 5.3
million in transport infrastructure, US$ 7.2 million in shelter, US$ 5.3 million in power and
telecommunications, US$ 3.6 million in education and health, US$ 1.6 million in agriculture and US$
0.6 in industries. The assessment showed that reconstruction priorities are very different among the five
rayons and even within the rayons, suggesting that project design should respond to very local
requirements and be flexible.
9.    The consultation process also revealed a number of important concerns. People at the local level
want to be involved in the preparation and implementation of reconstruction programs and to have a
transparent system of monitoring and evaluating their impact. The top priority for people is to create
opportunities for income and employment generation, initially through agriculture and public works
projects. Obtaining essential inputs for the 1998 agricultural year is especially important. In addition,
rehabilitation and reconstruction of certain bridges and roads were identified as essential to breaking the
isolation from markets, especially for marketing of crops and livestock, that the area suffered during the
war period. The provision of basic health and education services was also identified by people as having
high priority. The damage to shelter, although significant in terms of monetary loss, was seen as a lesser
priority because it affects only a small proportion of the population (about six percent) who, in a majority
of cases, have started repair and reconstruction work on their own.
IH.    INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE
10.   Since 1993 over US$ 180 million have been contributed by the international coinmunity to
emergency aid for Tajikistan. The largest part of this assistance has consisted of food aid, which even
today is distributed to over 10 percent of the popuilation. It has also covered medical support, in particular
assistance to contain outbreaks of typhoid fever, as well as emergency reconstruction of shelter, and other
needs. In addition to the major UN Agencies (UNDP, UNHCR, WFP, FAO, UNDHA, WHO,
UNICEF), the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the International Federation of the Red
Cross (IFRC), the International Organization for Migration (IOM and many international NGOs have
been active in the country, including the Aga Khan Foundation (AKF), Save-the-Children-US (SCF-US),
Save-the-Children-UK (SCF-UK), Mercy Corps International (MCI), Relief International (RI), Shelter
Now International (SNI), CARITAS, and others.
11.   On November 14, 1997 the UN Security Council extended and expanded the mandate of the
United Nations Mission of Observers in Tajikistan (UNMOT), which was established in December 1994.
The main role of UNMOT is to assist the Government and the UTO in the implementation of the peace
process and, in particular, to cooperate with the CNR in the preparation of elections, monitor the
disarmement and demobilization of UTO fighters, investigate cease-fire violations and ensure an effective
cooperation with CIS Peacekeeping Forces, the Russian Border Forces and the Mission of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).



- 4 -
12.   Both the World Bank and the IMF participated in a task force which, under the aegis of the UN
Special Representative of the Secretary General, assisted the Government and the opposition in the
preparation of the document International Support to Peace and Reconciliation in Tajikistan. This
document, which identified an estimated US$ 65 million of priority financing requirements for the
transition phase of the General Agreement, for the four areas of the Government's strategy for the
implementation of the Peace Agreement, (para. 5), was the basis for discussion for a Donors Conference
recently held in Vienna, Austria on November 24-25, 1997. The conference raised US$ 56.5 million in
pledges. In addition to pledges of specific support to the peace process the Conference also raised
numerous tentative pledges beyond the timeframe of the transition period as well as humanitarian
assistance and rehabilitation. The Bank participated actively in the Conference and presented its post-
conflict portfolio for Tajikistan.
13.   A Post-Conflict Emergency Assistance operation has been prepared by the Fund presented to its
Board on December 22, 1997. Further support by the international donors community will be provided
through a Consultative Group (CG) meeting which is planned to be held Paris in May 1998 and will
address the needs for Tajikistan's medium- and longer term reconstruction and economic redevelopment
included in the Government's strategy for the implementation of the peace agreement.
Hi. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
A.    World Bank Strategy and Programs in Tajikistan
13.   At the request of the Government, a World Bank mission visited Tajikistan in September 1997 to
identify the outline of a possible assistance program. In response to the Government's concerns, the
World Bank decided to prepare two operations: (a) the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit of an amount
of US$ 10 million equivalent which will help the Government address immediate general budgetary
needs associated with the implementation of the peace agreement and was presented to the Board on
December 16, 1997; and (b) the Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project (PCERP) which will
address the specific reconstruction needs of the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area in order to help with its
reintegration into the national economy.
14.   The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Tajikistan was discussed by the Board
on May 16, 1996. Recognizing the risks associated with the political and economic instability in
Tajikistan, the CAS calls for a flexible approach to the Bank Group's assistance program until. The CAS
aims at arresting the intensification of poverty through measures designed to foster a supply response,
based on employment intensive growth with direct steps to protect the most vulnerable groups. The
broad elements of the strategy are to: (a) strengthen institutional capacity to plan and implement a
medium-term program of structural reform; (b) support the Government's efforts to stabilize the
economy; and (c) moderate the impact of the economic collapse on vulnerable groups. PCERP is
consistent with the CAS and puts emphasis on a flexible approach to the conditions in Tajikistan. A
new CAS is planned for Board discussion in June 1998 and will articulate the Bank's medium-term
strategy in the new political environment.
B.    Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA experience
15.   The Bank's experience in working in Tajikistan is still relatively limited and too recent to allow
to draw specific lessons that are relevant for an emergency operation. The Bank has, however, a large



experience with emergency reconstruction projects in other parts of the world, with a significant share of
resources committed to post-conflict operations. A Policy Framework for World Bank Involvement in
Post-Conflict Operations was prepared in 1997. OED is currently assessing the Bank's experience with
post-conflict reconstruction. The study reviews the experience in the overall Bank portfolio and discusses
lessons learned in nine countries (Bosnia and Herzegovina, Cambodia, El Salvador, Eritrea, Haiti,
Lebanon, Rwanda, and Sri Lanka.) Preliminary findings indicate that successful implementation of
reconstruction projects include: (a) early bank involvement in defining a post-conflict reconstruction
strategy; (b) a good assessment of damages and needs; (c) an active Bank role in post-conflict aid
coordination; (d) flexible and expeditious programming, design and implementation processing; (e) a
willingness to help local authorities with project preparation; (f) diversification of reconstruction
programming into various sectors; and (f) the use of pilot projects in community-based activities and in
programs to support local initiatives. Additional preliminary findings of the study are that effective
assistance to post-conflict reconstruction is management and staff intensive and that it requires a
proactive involvement of senior management in key decisions, a strong commitment by country directors
and teams and resident missions with adequate staffing and delegation authority.
C.    Rationale for Bank Involvement
16.   The most recent CAS for Tajikistan, which was discussed by the Board on May 16, 1996,
recognizes the risks associated with operations in Tajikistan and urges a flexible response to the needs
of the country. The Peace Agreement between the UTO and the Govermnent represents an important
opportunity for establishing an environment that is conducive to macro-economic stabilization,
structural reform and increased growth. Both the Government and the UTO have indicated the
importance of beginning the reconciliation and reconstruction processes as quickly as possible. Not
only are these processes important for their tangible results, but also for their psychological value to a
war-weary population. The proposed operation, which is the second of two post-conflict IDA
operations for Tajikistan in FY 98, is therefore an effort to respond to some of the immediate needs of
the country and contribute to the successful implementation of the peace process. PCERP supports the
reconstruction needs in area of the country severely affected by the war and most neglected by
reconstruction efforts. Although other donors are active in Tajikistan and IDA's efforts are part of a
broader program, no other major donors are involved in this specially important geographical area. The
leadership provided by IDA is considered essential to the success of the peace process by both the
Government and the donor community.
D.    Relationship with other Bank/IDA-financed Projects
17.   PCERP complements IDA's support to the peace process in Tajikistan initiated by the Post-
Conflict Rehabilitation Credit which will be presented to the Board on December 16, 1997, and which is
designed to help the Government reduce arrears for the social safety net and finance expenditure for the
immediate-term resettlement of refugees and the demobilization of ex-combatants which are critical
elements in the Government's strategy for the implementation of the Peace Agreement. PCERP is also
closely related with the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project (PPAP), (Cr. 29640-TJ) which was presented to
the Board in April 1997. PPAP finances, among other activities, various NGO-executed shelter
reconstruction programs in the south of the country as well as an agricultural support program
implemented by AKF in GBAO. PCERP draws extensively on the PPAP experience for the design of its
implementation arrangements.



-6-
IV. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.    Project Preparation
18.   PCERP has been prepared as an emergency operation in accordance with the instructions of
OP/BP 8.50 on the basis of the findings of an identification mission which visited Tajikistan in
September 1997 and the results of the needs assessment undertaken by the Bank and UNOPS in
September and October 1997, (pam. 8 and Annex I). Appraisal was carried out in November 1997.
Negotiations were held in Washington on December 22, 1997
B.    Project Objectives and Design
19.   The primary objective of PCERP is to support the Government's strategy for the successful
implementation of the Peace Agreement (para. 5) by facilitating the reintegration of the Karategin-
Tavildara Valley area - which has remained under the control of the opposition longer than any other
part of the country - into the national economy through a targeted program of short-term reconstruction
of physical and social infrastructure, and emergency support to agricultural development.
20.   To support the above objective the project has been prepared on the basis of a close consultation
of the population of the Karategin-Tavildara Valley through a needs assessment carried out in
September-October 1997. The project has also been prepared seeking a great simplicity and flexibility in
its design in order to ensure, in a context of severe and extensive resource constraints, a fast and efficient
implementation. The operation complements IDA's support to the peace process in Tajikistan initiated by
the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit which has been presented to the Board on December 16, 1997, and
will help the Government reduce arrears for the social safety net and finance expenditure for the immediate-
term resettlement of refugees and the demobilization of ex-combatants which are critical elements in the
Government's strategy for the implementation of the peace agreements. It also complements, and is closely
coordinated with, the efforts undertaken by the donor community in other parts of Tajikistan. The project is
expected to be completed by March 31, 2000 with a Credit Closing Date of September 30, 2000.
C.    Project Components
21.   PCERP - the implementation of which will begin in Spring 1998 and last two years - will include
the following: (a) Agicultual Support for the 1998 Spring planting season; (b) repair, rehabilitation, and
reconstruction of Bridges and Roads; (c) repair and rehabilitation of schools, health care centers and
other community facilities as well as implementation of other programs of Small Commumit Works
benefiting local communities; and (d) Other snfratructure Works in the power and agriculture sectors.
C.l   Con ent 1:  icultural Supp    (6% of base cost)
22.   The component will finance the purchase and distribution of wheat seeds (150 tons), potato seeds
(650 tons), and fertilizer (660 tons) for the 1998 Spring planting season in the Darband, Gharm, Jirgital
Tavildara, and Tojikobad rayons. The implementation of the component will be managed by the Aga
Khan Foundation (AKF), (pam. 36) and allow for the cultivation of a total of about 900 has during the
Spring and Winter planting periods of 1998. The seeds to be provided consist of varieties hat have been
tested in Tajikistan, have shown good performance, and are certified by the Ministry of Agriculture.
Fertilizer will include amophos, seleter and potassium chloride. Inputs will be distributed exclusively to



-7-
about 550 private farmers within the framework of land privatization agreements between AKF and the
local authorities.
C.2   Component 2: Bridges and Roads (51% of base cost)
23.   The component will finance: (a) the rehabilitation, repair, or reconstruction of about fifteen
bridges in the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area and the Kalayhumb rayon of the GBAO; and (b) the
completion a new by-pass road for the town of Darband to replace the existing non functional road.
Twelve of the fifteen bridges are on the main roads (M41 and A372) linking Dushanbe with the GBAO
or the Kyrgyz Republic, respectively) while the other three link the main road to local communities. All
bridges, which are of either single concrete slab or suspension type with total spans varying between 20
and 90 meters, and roads will be repaired or rebuilt by two State enterprises, which operate under the
oversight of the Ministry of Transportation and Road Administration (MOTRA) and are specialized, one,
in construction of bridges and the other one, in that of roads. Works will be implemented on the basis of
standard MOTRA engineering designs, construction quality norms, and execution procedures, (para. 37).
C.3   CoMpoen 3: Small Community Works (23% of base cost
24.   The component will finance: (a) the rehabilitation or repair of schools, health care facilities,
other community facilities as well as small-scale transport and agricultural infrastructure of local
economic interest, all of which will be identified, and agreed upon by, the local communities concerned;
and (b) the provision of essential equipment and supplies to allow facilities repaired or rehabilitated to
resume normal operations. Under the oversight of an NGO hired as Implementation Manager, the works
will be carried out by local small- and medium-size enterprises in close consultation and cooperation
with the beneficiary local communities Specific selection criteria for works and implementation
arrangements are outlined in para. 38 below and Annex 4.
C.4   Component 4: Other Infrastructure works (20 % of base cost)
25.   The component will finance a series of works in the agriculture sector (rehabilitation of rural
roads, bridges, irrigation systems) and in the power sector (transmission lines, transformer stations) for
which additional technical preparation studies are required prior to the implementation of these works.
26.   Project Management: As a result of the civil war, the Tajildstan Government's capacity to
effectively prepare and implernent projects which are of the magnitude of the proposed operation and
involve external donors is extremly reduced. To allow for a rapid start up of project activities, maintain
adequate control over quality of execution, and ensure timely delivery of works, goods, and services,
technical assistance (about 60 person/month of foreign and 180 person/month of local consultants) for the
two-year period of implementation is being sought, under parallel grant financing, from bilateral sources.
Discussions to this effect with the Canadian International Development Agency (CEDA) and the Japan
PHERD Fund for PNt-Conflict Operations are in progress.
D.    Project Cost ad Finandcg Plan
D.1  EPrjectCosts:
27.   The total estimated cost of PCERP is US$ 11.0 million equivalent. The estimated costs and
foreign exchange by components are shown in Table I below. Detailed costs are shown in Annex 2.



-8 -
Table 1: Project Costs
(in US$ million)
Component                   Cost            Foreign    % of Base       IDA    Govmt
Exchange    Cost
Local    Foreign   Total     %
1. Agriculture Support      0.3      0.3      0.6     50%       6%               0.6     0.0
2. Roads and Bridges         1.1     4.0      5.1     80%       51%              4.5     0.6
3. Small Conmunity Works     1.9     0.4      2.3     20%       23%              2.2     0.1
4. Other Infrastructure Works  0.4   1.5      1.9     80%       20%              1.6     0.3
Total Base Cost             3.7      6.2      9.9     63%       100%             8.9     1.0
Contingencies                0.4     0.7      1. I
Total Project Cost          4.1      6.9      11.0                              10.0     1.0
28.    All costs have been estimated in US Dollars due to the difficulties in forecasting exchange rates
for the local currency. Estimates for the civil works of both the 'Roads and Bridges' and the 'Small
Community Works' components are based on detailed assessments of materials and labor requirements
including transport cost to the sites and cost-comparisons with similar projects recently carried out in
Tajikistan by IDA's Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project (Cr. 29460-TJ) or other aid agencies. Estimates
for the 'Agricultural Support' component are based on a proposal submitted by AKF.
29.    The foreign exchange component of US$ 6.9 million equivalent represents 63 % of total project
cost. The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: (a) goods for 'Agricultural Support'
component: 50%; (b) civil works for 'Bridges and Roads' and 'Other Infrastructure Works': 80 %; (c)
civil works for 'Small Community Works': 20%; (d) goods for 'Small Community Works' component:
90%. Given the short implementation period of about two years no financial contingencies have been
applied. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10%. Project costs include an estimated US$ 0.2
million equivalent in taxes and duties on civil works and locally procured goods. Goods specifically
imported for the project will be exempted from custom duties and taxes. Labor and in-kind contributions
by local communities have not been included.
D.2    Project Financing:
30.    The IDA Credit of US$ 10.0 million equivalent will finance 91% of total project cost (100% of
the foreign exchange component and 76% of the local cost component). The Government contribution of
US$ 1.0 million equivalent will finance taxes and duties (US$ 0.2 million equivalent), and salary costs
for the State enterprises executing the works included in the 'Bridges and 'Roads' component, (US$ 0.8
million equivalent). The project will include retroactive financing of up to US$ 800,000 equivalent for
the purchase of agricultural inputs (seeds and fertilizer) and bridge repair materials prior to Credit
Effectiveness, (para. 36 and 41).



-9 -
Table 2: Project Financing
(in US$ million)
Local Costs    Foreign exchange  Total project costs   % of Total Cost
IDA                                       3.1            6.9           10.0           91%
Government                                1.0            0.0            1.0            9 %
Total                                     4.1            6.9           11.0          100%
E.     Economic Justification
31.    The main objective of the PCERP is to support the reintegration of the Karategin-Tavildara
Valley area into the national economy through repair and reconstruction of essential infrastructure and
emergency assistance to agriculture. Aside from contributing to peace and future political stability of
Tajikistan, the main economic benefit of the project will, through the restoration of satisfactory transport
conditions, consist in providing the local farming communities renewed access to their traditional
markets for agricultural products thereby helping these communities to extract themselves from the
subsistence farming economy into which they were forced by the conflict. Introduction of new high
quality seeds for wheat and potato will contribute to significant improvements in yields and therefore to
rural household incomes. Restoration or improvement of operating conditions of schools and health
care facilities will have significant positive effects on the efficiency of education and yield extensive
public health benefits. Additionally, through the implementation of the small community works by local
private small- and medium-size enterprises, the project will create a significant number of, albeit
temporary, jobs and help stimulate the development of the local enterprise sector At this stage, however,
given the absence of reliable statistical data on current conditions for all sectors in area emerging from a
protracted war it is not possible nor meaningful to estimate an overall Economic Rate of Return for the
proposed project.
F.     Environmental Impact
32.    The project will have a limited environmental impact given the nature and size of the works
funded by it and has been classified as "B" for the purposes of OD 4.01. The project will focus on the
repair, rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of existing infrastructure or facilities. It will not raise any
resettlement or property rights issues and will be executed within the premises of the existing facilities or
the rights of way of the existing public roads network. Fertilizer under the 'Agriculture Support'
component will be distributed and its use closely monitored by AKF following the procedures agreed
with IDA for the PPAP project. AKF has a long-standing commitment to socially and environmentally
sustainable development and has extensive experience in agricultural development in fragile mountain
areas. Wheat and potato seeds imported under the 'Agricultural Support' component are of varieties that
are used extensively in the region. These varieties have been thoroughly tested, have proved their
adaptability, and are certified by the Tajikistan Ministry of Agriculture. All imports will be carried out
in accordance with national and international phyto-sanitary standards. The possible impact of works or
activities included in the 'Roads and Bridges', 'Small Community Works' and 'Other Infrastructure
Works' components will be reviewed on a case by case basis and, if required, will be subject to prior
environmental impact assessment as a condition for approval .



- 10-
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Organization and Management
33.   The project will be implemented by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which has been created
in the Office of the Prime Minister for the management of both the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit
(presented to the Board on December 16, 1997) and the PCERP . The Director of the PCU will report
directly to the Prime Minister and has been appointed with the approval of the CNR. Maintenance of the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) by December 31. 1997 was agreed during negotiations. (para. 57 (a).
34.   Within the PCU, a specific Unit will be created for the management of the Post-Conflict
Emergency Reconstruction Project (PCERP). The PCU/PCERP Unit will be managed by an Executive
Director of Tajik nationality recruited on a competitive basis. He will be assisted by a team of foreign
and local experts funded under bilateral grant funding currently under discussion, (para. 26). The
PCU/PCRP Unit will be provided by the Government with an annual budget sufficient to cover regular
operating costs such as rental of office space, utilities, salaries of auxiliary personnel and other
miscellaneous expenses.  Specific Terms of Reference and organizational arrangements for the
PCU/PCERP are included in Annex 3. To facilitate the implementation of the project, the PCU/PCERP
will, in consultation with IDA, prepare an Operations' Manual , which will provide the necessary
guidelines for the management, including procurement, of the project. A tentative Implementation Plan
is included in Annex 5.
B.    Implementation Arrangements
35.   Under the oversight of the PCU Director, the PCU/PCRP Unit will be specifically responsible
for: (a) overall management of the proposed project, including the coordination of project activities with
ministries and other government agencies, local authorities, non-governmental organizations, and
international donor agencies; (b) procurement of works and goods financed under the project; (c)
supervision and quality control of execution of works and delivery of goods; (d) management of project
accounts including credit withdrawals and disbursements from the Special Account; (e) monitoring of
the implementation performance of contractors as well as seeking continuos feedback from beneficiaries
on adequacy of project response to needs; and (f) assisting the Government as well as local authorities in
adequately informing the population about the project and its different features, (para. 47 and 54; and
Annexes 3a.3b,). Implementation arrangements for the different project components will be as follows:
B.l  CQ onent: Agricultural Support:
36.   To ensure the availability and satisfactory distribution of seeds and fertilizer in the Karategin-
Tavildara area for the Spring 1998 planting season, the implementation of this component will be
contracted, under a sole source contract arrangement, by the PCU/PCERP to AKF. AKF, which since
1992 has been successfully implementing an agricultural reform program in GBAO and is implementing
agency for part of IDA's PPAP project, has recently expanded its activities into the Karategin-Tavildara
Valley area. Under its agricultural reform program it enters into agreements with local authorities,
collective farms, and individual farmers of the five rayons. Under these agreements, land (between one
and four has) belonging currently under control of collective farms is being handed over to individual
farmers with an ownership guarantee given by the local authorities together with inputs and technical
assistance (from its own resources) provided by AKF. Currently, AKF has cooperation agreements with



-11-
about 240 farmers owning around 400 has, but expects to increase the number to about 550 in Spring
1998 with about 1,200 has under cultivation. Under its contract with the PCU/PCERP, AKF will
purchase seeds and fertilizer, ensure appropriate and timely transport to the Karategin-Tavildara Valley
area, and carry out distribution to beneficiaries. It would also provide subsequent technical assistance to
the beneficiaries and closely monitor the adequate use of both seeds and fertilizer. Farmers benefiting
from AKF assistance would reimburse the latter in kind, that is, primarily in seeds in accordance with a
schedule included in the individual cooperation agreements with AKF. All seeds so collected will be
redistributed to other farmers newly entering into cooperation agreements.
B.2   Component: Roads and Bridges:
37.   The works included in the 'Roads and Bridges' component will be executed under a contractual
arrangement between the PCU/PCERP and the two State enterprises (MOST-STROI and DOR STROI),
which operate under the oversight of MOTRA and are the only two existing enterprises in Tajikistan
specialized, the first, in construction of bridges, and the second, in road construction. Under the
proposed arrangement, PCU/PCERP will procure all materials required for the works and funded through
the project on the basis of design studies (including environmental review) and bills of quantities
approved by MOTRA and following procurement procedures specified in a PCU/PCERP Operations'
Manual prepared in consultation with, and agreed upon by, IDA. MOST-STROI and DOR-STROI will
provide the necessary specialized personnel from their workforce, ensure the transport of both personnel
and materials from Dushanbe to the worksites, and execute the works in accordance with the quality
standards, timetable, and payment schedule agreed on in the contract.
B.3   Component: Small Community Works:
38.   Since (a) the execution of these works requires a strong and continuous participation of local
communities; and (b) the works are of small size and scattered location, a direct management of
implementation by the PCU/PCERP would not be practical. Instead, the PCU/PCERP will contract, on a
competitive basis, one or several NGO or other entities acceptable to the Bank to act, under the
supervision of the PCU/PCERP and the relevant line ministries (Ministry of Education, Ministry of
Health, etc..), as the local Implementation Managers in the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area. In this
quality, the Implementation Managers will be responsible for: (a) identifying, in close consultation with
the local authorities and the population of the communities concerned, the works to be executed or
equipment and supplies to be purchased satisfying agreed selection criteria (Annex 4); (b) obtaining, if
needed, approval from the PCU/PCERP on project management decisions in accordance with conditions
stipulated in the contract; (c) preparing technical designs (including environmental review), bills of
quantities, and tender documents; (d) organizing procurement among local small enterprises; (d)
evaluating tenders and preparing contracts; (e) supervising the execution of works and/o delivery and/or
installation of equipment and supplies; and (f) making payments to contractors and/or suppliers. All
procurement of specific goods or services required for the component (other than in-situ available
construction materials) will be carried out by the PCU/PCERP following the procedures specified in the
PCU/PCERP Operations' Manual.
B.4   Component: Other Infrastructure Works:
39.   The implementation arrangements for this components will follow, depending on the nature and
size of the works or goods to be provided, the arrangements for the 'Bridges and Roads' component or
the 'Small Community Works' component and will be subject to prior review and approval by IDA.



- 12 -
C.      Mid-Term Review
40.    In addition to intensive regular supervision by Bank staff and close follow up by the Bank Field
Office in Tajikistan, IDA and the Government will carry out by end of November 1998 a mid-term
review to (a) assess progress in project implementation achieved until then; (b) identify constraints and
obstacles encountered; (c) discuss solutions and possibly required adjustments in the implementation of
ongoing components; and (d) agree on the completion program for the rest of the project. Subsequent
periodic reviews will take place according to a mutually agreed schedule but in no case no later than
November 1999. Agreement on mid-term review and monitoring procedures was reached during
negotiations. (para. 57(c)).
D.      Procurement
41.    The project will include retroactive financing of goods. Credit proceeds up to US$ 800,000
(8% of project cost) will be applied to expenditures for such contracts concluded after December 1,
1997. Only those contracts which will meet the Bank's procurement requirements outlined in this
section will be acceptable under retroactive financing. Procurement arrangements were discussed and
agreed at negotiations. (para. 57(b)).
42.    All goods and works to be financed from the credit proceeds will be procured in accordance
with the IDA Guidelines for Procurement ('Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits' published in January 1995 and revised in January 1996), including amendments as of the credit
signing date, using the Bank/IDA standard procurement documents. A procurement workshop will be
held in Spring-1998.
Table 3: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                            Procurement Method                          Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB           NCB            Other          N.B.F
1. Works
0.0           0.0            3.6            0.0                 3.6
(0.0)         (0.0)          (2.9)          (0.0)               (2.9)
2. Good
0.0           3 1            4.3            0.0                 7.4
(0--0)        (3.0)          (4.1)          (0.0)               (7.1)
0.0           3.1            7.9            0.0                11.0
(0.0)        .(3.0)          (7.0)          (0.0)              (10.0)
Note:  Cost estimates include taxes and duties. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
Other include:  Direct contracting for bridge and roads repair works  US$ 1.5 million equivalent
Minor Works Contracts for small community works  US$ 2.0 million equivalent
Direct Contracting for small community works  US$ 0.1 million
National Shopping for small community work supplies US$ 0.2 million
International Shopping                   US$ 4.1 million



- 13 -
43.   Works: Bridges and Roads Component: The persistence of security problems in Tajikistan and
the scattered and remote location of the worksites requires an innovative approach to procurement. Due
to the civil war in which the country was engulfed for the last six years no major infrastructure works
have been carried out for several years. Therefore, ICB is not expected to be suitable. This is also
necessary as the size of the contracts is small (below US$ 200,000 equivalent). Also, there are no
private sector enterprises in the country that have the capacity to carry out the works required under the
project and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) is, therefore, not feasible either. Currently, there are
only two semi-autonomous State enterprises capable of carrying out the works, MOST-STROI and DOR-
STROI, which are specialized, the first in bridge constructions, and the second, in road construction, and
have the equipment and skilled personnel that is needed. Therefore, construction works with the help of
those companies is the only possible approach. In order to have an optimal solution, under the proposed
arrangement, all construction materials will be procured by the PCU/PCERP directly in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA, (para. 44). PCU/PCERP will procure the execution of the works through
up to about twelve individual Direct Contracts with MOST-STROI (of an average value of US$ 110,000)
and one contract with DOR-STROI (of a value of US$ 450,000), on a sole-source basis for a total value of
about US$ 1.5 million equivalent. Under these contracts MOST-STROI and DOR-STROI would provide
the specialized personnel and equipment required to execute the works under the control of PCU/PCERP
and technical supervision by MOTRA (if additional construction equipment is needed it would be leased
by PCU/PCERP), (para. 37). Payments to MOST-STROI and DOR-STROI would be made according to
a completion rates and time schedule included in their respective contracts with PCU/PCERP.
44.    Small Works Component: The works included in this component are scattered in a region
where there is no large-scale construction industry. Therefore, small community work projects of a
maximum cost of US$ 50,000 equivalent will be procured under Minor Works Contracts awarded under
lumpsum, fixed price contracts on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic
contractors in response to written invitations. Awards will be made to the contractor who offers the
lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources available to
complete the contract successfully. Approximately US$ 2.0 million will be procured in accordance with
this procedure. The present approach shall be defined in the PCU/PCERP Operations' Manual. Given the
relatively large number of minor works contracts, and for information dissemination purposes, the
Implementation Manager will ensure that contracts opportunities are advertised for each six-month period
on a rolling basis for contractors' expressions of interest. The advertisements will be placed in local
newspapers or circulated through other media. The Implementation Manager will prepare and maintain a
list of interested contractors and will invite all such contractors to submit quotations. The list will remain
open so that any contractor expressing interest any time is added to the list. Direct Contracting (DC) will
be used for small works contracts under US$ 10,000 equivalent up to total value of US$ 100,000
equivalent when because of the remoteness of the worksite, only one contractor is available. Contract
costs will be established by the Implementation Manager, in consultation with PCU/PCERP, on the basis
of cost comparisons with, and/or unit costs derived from, other similar contracts.
45.   Goods: Considering the emergency situation in the country and the need to expedite project
implementation, goods to be financed from the IDA credit consisting of construction materials readily
available from local suppliers in the country such as sand, gravel, crush stone, etc.. will be procured for
contracts valued at less than US$ 250,000 equivalent and an aggregate amount of up to US$ 3.1 million
equivalent through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Goods consisting of miscellaneous supplies
included in the 'Small Community Works' component, and costing less than US$ 50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 200,000 equivalent, will be procured through National
Shippnig (NS) procedures on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers.



- 14-
nAol S png (IS) baswd on a companso  of prce quotations oblained from at east three
suppLiers from at kast two eligible coun   will be used for the pourement of ctucib   maials
such as steel, timber, cement, etc.., seeds, fertilizer, fuel, vehicles, computers, and office equipm    not
available in Tajikun for contracts with a value not exceeding US$ 200,000 equivalent each and an
aggregate amount of US$ 4.1 million equivalent.
46.   Rak Prior Review. All contracts awarded under NCB and IS of a value in excess of USS
100,000 equivalent and contract awarded under DC of a value above US$ 10,000 equivalent will be
subject to prior review by IDA. Additionally, the first two contracts for procurement under IS and NS
will be submitted to prior review inTespective of their value. All other procurement documents and
contract. will be subject to ex-post reviews by IDA supervision missions. Mechanisms for prior review
of Minor Works contracts with a value not exceeding US$ 50,000 equivalent will be described in the
PCU/PCERP Operations' Manual, (para. 34).
47.                        :  Procurement will be carefully monitored by the PCU/PCERP which
will set up to this effect a computerized monitoring system. All procurement documentation will be kept
at the PCU/PCERP office in order to be available for review by Bank supervision missions and exten
auditors. Quarterly reports will provide detailed information on procurement.
E.    Dsbursements
48.   The IDA Credit is expected to be disbursed in two and a half years, including six months for the
finalization of accounts and submission of final withdrawal applications and other reports.
Table4.amm LdCedtsbushan Shd&
(in USS million)
Bank Fcal Year                 FY 98                  FY 99                 FY 2000
Anuwa                           1.0                    6.0                    3.0
Cumnuladve                      1.0                    7.0                   10.0
49.   The proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed as follows:
Table 5fliab.urmLcnClgwim (USS million)
Caegoy                               Amom of Credit          % of eedfite  to be fiuanced
Worh                                 2.6                    90%
Goods                                6.4                    100% of forei exiture
100%  of  ocal ependitur  [ex-
y cost]
90% of local pmutur  for odor
goods poured locly
U _uxcted                            1.0
Total                                10.0



- 15 -
50.   To facilitate timely project implementation the Government will establish, maintain, and operate
under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special account in US Dollars with an authorized allocation
of US$ 500,000 in a commercial bank that meets the requirements. During the early stages of project
implementation, the initial allocation of the Special account will be limited to US$ 200,000. However,
when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit will have reached the level of SDR 700,00
equivalent, the initial allocation may be increased to the authorized allocation of US$ 500,000 by
submitting the relevant applications for withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted
every three months and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.
51.   Disbursements for all contracts for works and goods of amounts of less than US$ 100,000 will be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Payment conditions and modalities for
disbursements under the 'Small Community Works' component will be stated in the respective
contractual agreements with the Implementation Managers for the component. Disbursements will be
made on the basis of SOEs. Records of the Special Account proceeds and outlays will be available for
review by Bank supervision missions and subject to annual audit. Modalities of Special Account
management and disburse ent arements were discussed and agreed during negotiations, (pam.
i-7(d)).
F.    Accounting and Auditing
52.   The PCU will be responsible for the overall financial management of the project and will, to that
effect, establish within PCU/PCERP an accounting system acceptable to the Bank, with technical
assistance as required. The PCU will be subject to annual external audit by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Accounting and auditing arranents were agreed on during negotiations
(nara. 57(a.
G.    Reporting and Monitoring
53.   The PCU/PCERP will prepare quarterly progress reports for the Bank according to an agreed
format. The reports will summarize the status of implementation of the different project components in
terms of procurement, work execution, and disbursement. A final Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) will be prepared by the Government no later than six months after the Closing Date of the Credit
of September 30, 2000.
54.   Performance monitoring indicators will be used to monitor the achievement of the project
objectives, (para 57(g)). The indicators (Annex 6) reflect the concerns of the Government and IDA to
that the project provide a fast and adequate response to the needs of the population of the Karategin-
Tavildara Valley area. The monitoring of the indicators will also help to detect at an early stage possible
shortcomings in the project design and implementation arrangements and allow to quickly take remedial
action, if necessary. Agreement on reportiWng procedures was reached during negotiations. (para. 57(c)).



- 16-
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
55.   The major benefits of the project are: (a) the provision to the inhabitants of the Karategin-
Tavildara Valley area of renewed and satisfactory access to the rest of the country thereby allowing the
redevelopment of the local economy especially in the agricultural sector and contributing to the
reduction of poverty; (b) the restoration and improvement of education and health services to acceptable
quality levels; and (c) increased incomes for farmers as a result of expansion of land privatization and
introduction of new quality seeds. Additionally, through the implementation of the small community
works by local private small- and medium-size enterprises, the project will create a significant number
of, albeit temporary, jobs and help stimulate the development of the local enterprise sector.
56. The project faces considerable risks, many of which cannot be avoided. These risks fall into two broad
categories: (a) Political risks: Despite a promising start, the continuing successful implementation of the
peace agreement remains a fragile enterprise. The demobilization of soldiers and their reintegration into
civil life in the context of Tajikistan's economy constitutes a formidable challenge and its favorable
completion could be jeopardized by a variety of factors. Political risks are difficult to manage, but the
provision of budgetary support under the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit to help the Govemment bear
some of the costs of the peace process can be expected to contribute to bolstering political stability. (b)
Managerial and technical risks: Effective and timely implementation of the project requires the early
creation of the PCUIPCERP, including the appointment of key staff. The capacity of the local contracting
industry is not known at this point, and contracting bottlenecks could delay implementation. The diversion
of credit resources to other uses is an additional risk. The risks are minimized by (a) the simplicity of the
design of the project focusing on a few key components, (b) the relatively unsophisticated nature of the
works to be carried out, (c) the provision of technical assistance as early as possible in the implementation
process, and (d) the involvement of NGOs that already have experience in the management of this type of
reconstruction and rehabilitation works in Tajikistan. Placing the project under the responsibility of the
Prime Minister and having its implementation closely monitored by the CNR should help ensure the
appropriate use of funds and minimize the risks of diversion.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
57.   During Negotiations agreement on the following points was obtained:
(a)    Maintenance of Project Coordination Unit (PCU), (para. 33);
(b)    Procurement arrangements, (para. 41);
(c)    Mid-term review, monitoring and reporting procedures, ( para. 40 and 54);
(d)    Special Account and disbursement management arrangements, (para. 51); and
(e)    Accounting and auditing arrangements, (para. 52).



-17-
ANNEX 1
page I of 5
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
POST-CONFLICT NEEDS ASSESSMENT of KARATEGIN -TAVILDARA VALLEY,
Summary
INTRODUCTION
1.    Tajikistan's civil war damaged agriculture, education, health institutions, power and
telecommunications, housing, industry and administration, the economy, human resources and the fabric
of civil society.  The 1997 peace agreement provides a context for enhanced assistance to national
recovery and reconstruction. Of the two main conflict areas, Khatlon (Vakhsh and Kofarnihon valleys)
has been effectively under government control and received external relief and rehabilitation assistance.
But the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area in the center of the country came under opposition control until
the peace accord. The area is strategically situated astride roads linking Dushanbe with Gorno-
Badakhshan (GBAO), and with Osh in Kyrgyzstan, along the Vakhsh river's major headwaters, the
Surkhob and Obihingou rivers. It shares a long border with Kyrgyzstan. Its five rayons, Darband
Gharm, Jirgital, Tojikobod, and Tavildara, contain almost 250,000 inhabitants.  Of its 200 km2,
90 percent is mountainous. The Karategin-Tavildara Valley area is critical to post-conflict rehabilitation
because of the damage it suffered, its relative neglect, and its strategic and political importance.
2.    The Bank, with UNDP/ UNOPS, conducted an assessment of needs, priorities for reconstruction,
including some stakeholder consultation in the five rayons over four weeks in September-October 1997.
Six trained investigators assisted by individual district specialists, visited every community (jamoat),
completed questionnaires with local leaders and commanders, who gave full cooperation. They
inventoried war damage, interviewed key informants, established local rehabilitation priorities and
compiled an extensive photographic record. This assessment seeks to be as comprehensive as possible.
It covers, in particular, needs in the sectors of roads and bridges, agriculture, power and
telecommunications, health, education and women, and indicates priorities for the local populations and
local leadership. It includes a partial stakeholder and institutional analysis.
3.    Most of the population lives in settlements along the main river banks. The Surkhob valley is
broad, contoured and well populated, while the Obihingou is narrow, precipitous and sparsely inhabited.
Before the war, the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area was a leading region in the production of potatoes,
export quality fruit, honey, wool, animal skins, meat and dairy produce, focusing on national urban and
export markets. It was a net importer of wheat. Mechanization was extensively used to maintain and
rehabilitate irrigation and land-protection structures, to prepare land, harvest and transport crops. The
main centers benefited from cheap internal air services, good roads, some local industry, and a good
level of education and basic health.
4.    Heavy fighting along the major roads and in the mountains, and aerial bombardment brought
great suffering to civilians. The five rayons were differently affected by the war: (i) Gharm rayon
(population 84,000) is the most developed, being effectively a regional center with an air strip and many
facilities, but suffered only moderately from hostilities; (ii) Darband (Komsomolobad) (63,000) suffered



- 18-
ANNEX 1
page 2 of 5
great infrastructural damage and prior neglect. Situated just upstream of the Rogun dam, and destined for
partial submersion, government investment since 1971 has focused on an uncompletecd (and uninhabited)
new regional capital; (iii) Jirgital (51,000) adjoining Kyrgyzstan, and being well behind the front lines,
suffered little direct damage, but its pre-existing poverty was exacerbated by isolation, economic
hardship and infrastructural deterioration and some destruction, and thus the district deserves inclusion in
the reconstruction program, and its border location is important for future road communications.
(iv) Tojikobod, (33,000) opposite Gharm, is a major agricultural district now in great decline; while
(v) Tavildara, (14,000, 6 percent of the area's population), possesses the most difficult terrain, the
Obihinkho Valley being narrow and steep. The war began here, and it suffered some of the heaviest
fighting, and a disproportionately high level of damage.
ASSESSMENT FINDINGS
5.    Roads and Bridges. The main Dushanbe-Jirgital road (A372) through Darband and Gharm to
Osh and Bishkek, connects the four main districts to markets, schools, enterprises, hospitals. The
Tavildara road (M41) connects GBAO to this road near Darband. Both are in poor repair, being virtually
impassable or dangerous in spots. Over a third of the 1,500 km of district and village roads are in bad
shape, mostly in Tavildara, Darband and Gharm. Of 158 bridges, over 100 were destroyed or damaged,
Darband and Tavildara being the worst affected. Several bridges are critical to communications, serving
large communities, while others link small isolated communities to the larger network or are designed
primarily for road protection and alignment. Bridges, being of strategic importance, suffered more than
roads. Roads require constant maintenance owing to local conditions (rock falls, mud-slides, river-bank
erosion), and most damage has been through lack of maintenance. All seven road management
departments, responsible for repair and maintenance, were destroyed and their equipment stolen. The six
asphalt-gravel mixing plants and gravel quarries are non-functional as is the precast concrete plant at
Gharm, which fabricated culverts and other components. For most people, local authorities and
specialists, the Dushanbe-Jirgital road is vital. They are less concerned with road quality, than with
ensuring year-round movement of traffic and access to internal and external inputs and markets. A
second priority is roads and bridges in Tavildara district, the only link from other parts of the country to
GBAO. Two other priorities are: (i) the 45 km of the road in Kamarob-Nazar Aeiloq, to connect the
main road to a major anthracite deposit, and enable small-scale artisanal extraction of coal for much-
needed winter heating; and (ii) completion of the Yamgalik bridge across the Surkhob, to link some
30,000 people to the main road.
6.    Agriculture. Agriculture suffered severe damage, through the loss of many factors: male labor;
machinery and the capacity to repair it; productive land (to mud-slides, flooding and erosion); access to
inputs and markets. While the state farming sector declined, private land was brought under wheat
cultivation, usually at higher productivity. Wheat production increased by over half in five years, with
almost three quarters of this coming from private land. By contrast, production of almost everything else
fell far below previous levels: potatoes, livestock, fruit, vegetables, and honey. The seven percent of
irrigated land accounted for most production. Irrigation system in every district were damaged; UNOPS
has installed or rehabilitated small local irrigation systems. Much agricultural machinery was looted or
deteriorated, and the Gharm central agricultural machinery repair workshop was destroyed. Local
priorities for agricultural rehabilitation are: seeds (especially potato); rehabilitation of irrigation systems
and destroyed agricultural machinery; rehabilitation of agricultural processing facilities; reconstruction
of destroyed bridges and roads to facilitate the marketing of goods in other regions.



-19-
ANNEX 1
page 3 of 5
7.    Power and telecommunications. Extensive damage has been done to the main electricity supply
network, which provided the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area with power from Nurek. Power lines and
transformers, have been destroyed, looted or neglected with other transformers suffering from resultant
overload. The highly irregular supply or complete lack of electric power has had widely felt impacts in
all districts, and particularly in Darband and Tavildara. Economic and environmental consequences
include the cutting and burning of trees for winter fuel, which have depleted productive orchards and
forests.   The telephone service also proved extremely vulnerable to war, looting and lack of
maintenance, resulting in damage and destruction to about 60 percent of the system. Currently only
three of five rayon exchanges and none of the local exchanges are in service, with the Darband and
Tavildara systems completely out of operation. Priority areas for rehabilitation of are: repair of the
Obigharm to Gharm high tension line; reconstruction of the Gharm and Darband substations;
rehabilitation 80 km of the electricity line between Langar and Lodjurg in Tavildara; rehabilitation of
the Darband central telephone exchange.
8.    Health and sanitation.  Health care was organized according to the standard Former Soviet
Union hierarchy: 5 district hospitals (with the principal one in Gharm), 20 village hospitals, 17 rural
clinics or dispensaries and 119 rural health posts, together with district pharmacies,
sanitary/epidemiology stations, and 7 public bath houses. Health institutions were extensively damaged
by attack and looting of equipment and vehicles. Hospitals now "function" with almost no equipment or
supplies. Equally serious was the loss of professional staff, doctors and mid-level professionals, owing
to emigration, low salaries or their non-payment. Staff remaining show a high sense of dedication to
duty. Together with the deterioration of urban drinking water supplies and the destruction of public
baths, these changes have increased the risk of infectious and water-borne diseases, with hundreds of
cases being reported of typhoid, hepatitis, dysentery, scabies and malaria. Priorities locally identified
amount, in effect, to the hope that the old system can be restored in entirety: rehabilitation and equipping
of district central hospitals, especially Gharm, and of village hospitals, local health posts, central
pharmacies, sanitary & epidemiological stations and public baths; provision of medicines and vaccines
for prevalent diseases; rehabilitation of the only interregional tuberculosis hospital  (Gharm);
rehabilitation of the state psychiatric hospital in Navobod. A more focused response is discussed briefly
below.
9.    Education. The impact on education is similar to that on health, but affects more people on a
daily basis. Almost half of the schools have been damaged and destroyed (mostly in Tavildara, Gharm
and Darband). The learning environment sharply deteriorated. Classrooms lack heating, furniture, and
textbooks. Many children lacked suitable clothes and shoes, or do not attend owing to prevailing
insecurity. The number of teachers, the proportion of trained teachers, and the number and proportion of
women teachers have all declined, for the same reasons as in health. Reconstruction of facilities is
already being undertaken in some places with community support. Education priorities were identified
as: rehabilitation of destroyed and damaged schools; provision of winter heating, supplies and textbooks,
and school feeding and shoes and clothes to enable needy primary school pupils to attend.
10.   Housing. During the war, over 2,200 houses were damaged of which a quarter were destroyed.
This damage was mainly in Gharm and Tavildara, with Tavildara proportionately worst hit, and Gharm
most affected in absolute terms. People have begun reconstruction, hampered by lack of construction



-20 -
ANNEX 1
page 4 of 5
materials, and often forced to sell cattle, their only tradable assets and often their only source of income.
Many houses have been patched up, often with thatch, mud, and recycled polyethylene sheeting. As a
result internal heating is poor, a major problem during winter months. Priorities for housing are
therefore, for the affected minority, a supply of building materials, including roofing materials, timber,
nails, cement, lime and glass. Other local building materials are available
11.   Social aspects: women, children, security and local government. Even before the civil war
women in the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area were below the national average in secondary and higher
education and least likely to work in the public service. With the war, the number of educated women
fell to a negligible amount. Most women in the area are unemployed, particularly in Tojikobod, Darband
and Tavildara. Families lost husbands, fathers, brothers, traditional bread-winners, leaving almost 4,500
female headed households and around 30,000 orphans (most informally cared for). Moreover, the
emigration of young males for employment has left a pool of over 11,000 marriageable but unmarried
girls, according to officials. Priorities for women are: organizing women's centers; micro-credit for petty
trade and small businesses; assistance in small enterprise development; training in home economics
including home births, sewing, processing of fruits and vegetables, traditional handicrafts.
12.   Industry. Many industrial plants were destroyed, mostly in Gharm, including the Gharm central
dairy processing factory, with a capacity of 24 tons per day; the pre-cast concrete factory, workshops for
repair and maintenance of agricultural machinery and road building.
13.   Relative priorities. A simple district ranking by proportionate damage to infrastructure resulted
in: (1) Tavildara; (2) Darband; (3) Tojikobod; (4) Gharm and (5) Jirgital. A priority ranking of 14
commonly expressed needs across districts, resulted in five clusters: (1) Seeds and employment; (2)
electricity, transport and fuel; (3) education, health and roads; (4) irrigation, drinking water, and bridges;
(5) food and telecommunications.
THE RESPONSE: PRINCIPLES, PRIORITIES AND PROCESS
14.   A first principle is to treat the needs of the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area as an emergency
situation, although it is not the poorest part of the country. This approach is justified by: the extent of
damage; the collapse of the productive economy and of most educational, health and social protection
services, together with the ineffectiveness of local government machinery; lack of effective relief and
rehabilitation over the last three years; and the impoverishment and asset depletion of ordinary people.
Fragile local institutions, widespread expectations of a peace dividend, and local willingness to
participate in rehabilitation all point to an opportunity to consolidate peace, in which the next six months
are critical so as to help people through the difficult winter and early spring months, and ensure the 1998
spring planting and harvest.
15.   Secondly, the focus should be on functional rehabilitation, which bridges the gap between relief
on one side and development on the other. Emergency investment is targeted so as to meet immediate
priority needs, including those of the poor and vulnerable, while laying the basis for future development.
This requires the rehabilitation of essential functions rather than the reconstruction of specific would not
necessarily respond to the entire catalogue of needs identified in the survey, since it is natural, in
presenting needs, that people would tend to wish to restore what had been there before. Local
consultation on the best use of limited resources to ensure quick impact will therefore be necessary.



-21 -
ANNEX 1
page S of 5
16.    Thirdly, resource allocation must take account of the diverse needs of different rayons,
communities and population elements. Each district is different, and has different priorities. In order to
avert fears that some districts may receive less assistance than they deserve, the process of decision-
making has to be inclusive, transparent and fair, with public information, open discussion, local
consultation and confidence-building. Sufficiently broad local consultation would also help to ensure
that benefits are widely spread. An implication for design is flexibility in the allocation of funds, which
should not be too rigidly pre-programmed. A modest relief response is still required to address the
urgent humanitarian needs of the most vulnerable, particularly in Tavildara. Tavildara should be treated
as a special case, with a higher per capita investment, by virtue of its high level of destruction, its small
population, and its limited economic potential. The rehabilitation needs of the other four districts in the
Surkhob valley are similar and interconnected, and all jamoats should be eligible.
17.    Investment priorities within sectors, as indicated by the needs assessment, should focus on:
(i) Agriculture: ensure the preconditions for a sustained increase in production and family incomes,
starting in the new year, through the provision of seeds and essential inputs, supplemented by
rehabilitation of necessary infrastructure and local capacity: key road communications for storage,
transport and processing and marketing of field crops and fruit; land protection and preparation;
rehabilitation of machinery.  The timing of agricultural inputs and land preparation is critical,
(ii) Education and health: restore essential services, to avert the risk of a "lost generation" of children
who had neither adequate education nor health care. The objective should be to ensure restored basic
education functions during the first year and the operation of most schools through the 1998-9 winter,
probably with a priority to secondary education; and to ensure essential immunization, maternal and
child care services. (iii) a widely distributed and targeted program of local rehabilitation microprojects,
to be implemented with full local government and community participation; with selection criteria based
on local priorities. This will help to restore purchansing power and reduce poverty. There could also the
completion of some works started before 1991 where this would be cost effective. and to complement
any common interventions of small, local microprojects that respond to specific local priorities. Special
issues in relation to specific districts are dealt with below under investment choices.
18.    Process. It will be important to ensure close interagency coordination, as well as full partnership
with local leadership, communities and government institutions. The area's ample human resource of
educated and skilled people that should be tapped. The creation of parallel local government or
implementation mechanisms should be avoided. Local government can develop expertise in preparing
tenders; managing local contractors for the implementation of small works; of working in partnership
with local community contributions; and handling some funds transparently. There should therefore be
a process of phased devolution of responsibility to local government. In addition the local military
forces should not be excluded from the consultative process, particularly in the early stages, although
their role should not be allowed to usurp that of local authorities. The process of demobilization, and the
reintegration of forces into the community, is part of building civil society, and it would be unwise to
attempt to marginalize local military forces. Poverty monitoring using simple local mechanisms is
required to track poverty indicators, to ensure the transparent and effective use of resources, the effective
targeting of relief, and assess the effectiveness of the rehabilitation program.



IS



-22 -
ANNEX 2
page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLE
(in Us$ miillion)
Project Component                               Local        Foreign      Total     % of total cost
1.     Agriculture Support
Wheat seed                               70             0          70
Potato seed                             200            125        325
Fertilizer                                 0          160         160
Fuel                                      0            45          45
Subtotal                        270           330         600            6%
2.      Roads and Bridges
Reconstruction                          560          2,380       2,940
Repair                                  420          1,350       1,770
Completion of Darband by-pass           100         290           390
Subtotal                       1,080        4,020       5,100           51%
3.      Small Community Works
School Repair                           850           175        1,025
Health care facilities repair           450            75         525
Other Community Works                   600           150         750
Subtotal                       1,900          400       2,300          23%
4.      Other Infrastructure Works              400          1,500       1,900          20%
Total Base Cost                                3,650         6,250       9,900          100%
Physical Contingencies (10%)                    400           700        1,100
Total Project Cost                             4,050         6,950      11,000



-23 -
ANNEX 211
page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST -CONFLICT EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
BRIDGES AND ROADS COMPONENT
DETAILED COSTS
A.                     BRIDGES
H.  OEOMCRIP1ION                       Im EX           SPAN           TOTAL              MATERALS         EOUPMENT           LABOLR           DRLLUJN
DUSHANBE          M             cOsT                 COST              COST             COST        SCOURPROTECToN
tUD                  USD              USD              USD          PART COMFLETEO
113              113              113          (ADJUSTWENTS)
1   Replacetemporary                    129            24               329,025                89,575           89.675           89,675             60,000
Dndge                                                                                                                         : 
* 2   Re ace mporary                      132             18              218,500                 65.500           65.500           65.00              20,000
Dndge
3   Replace temporary                   133             18              227,700                65,900           65,900           65,900             30,000
bDdge
4   Bombed bridge                       150            61.5            630,450                200,150          200,150          200.150             30.000
Tavidara road
5   Bombed bdge                         165            24              215,500                 38,500           38,500           38,500            100.000
6   Incomplete bdge                     170            31.5            340,500                 93.500           93,500           93.500             60.000
7   AccetDSsouth ban*                   178            54              238,740                 79,580           79,580           79.58N
destroyed
8   Neaty complete                      185            24               62,650                 47,550           47,550           47,550            (80,000)
9   Tobecompleted                       183            24               90,400                 41,800           41,800           41,80D            (35.000)
10  Destroyed                           196            31.5             373,800               111,200          111,200           111,200            40.000
11  Suspersion Brdge to Tavildara       202             90              447,800               162,600          162,600           162,600           (40.000)
destroyed
12  New drift across laindslde area     207          DrIn 90 M           62,950                37,650           37,650            37,650           (50,000)
13  Brdge destroyed by flood            215            31.5             195,825                70,275           70,275            70,275           (15,000)
14  Destroyed                           224             18              193,350                64,450           64,450            64,450
15  Hat repaired bxIdge                 225             18              178.755                59,58            59.585            59,585
16  Destroyed. New Toqkobad twn       Toikobad          16              180,000
Km 43 Ex. Ghbrm
SUB-TOTAL                                      3,983,745             1,227.915         1,227,915        1,227,915
CONTINGENCIES         15%                             597,562
TOTAL                                       4,581,307
.B.                  ROAD WORKS
No             LOCATION               LENGTH
1   Daband by-pass
from kmi 130   km 134.5             4.5                             480,000
TOTAL                  48W,000
GRAND TOTAL
ROAD AND BRIDGES                             TOTAL                5,0ti1307



-24 -
ANNEX 3A
page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
INSTITTUTONAL ARRANGEMENTS
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
In support of the implementation of the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit the Government established
in the Office of the Prime Minister a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and appointed its Director. As
agreed with IDA, the PCU will be responsible for both the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit and the
Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project (PCERP). The PCU Director, assisted by qualified
personnel, will be responsible for the overall management of the Post-Conflict Emergency
Reconstruction Project.
Within the PCU, a Unit specifically in charge of the management of the Post-Conflict Emergency
Reconstruction Project is created (PCU/PCERP) with the following responsibilities:
-     coordinating the activities carried out under the project with the concerned line-ministries and
ensuring that they are consistent with their standards, priorities and criteria;
-     preparing, in consultation with IDA, an 'Operations Manual' specifying the procedures to be
followed for the execution of the different components including procurement and disbursement
procedures;
*     coordinating the execution of works carried out by implementing agencies and contractors,
including periodic visits to work sites as required;
*     monitoring, in association with the corresponding line ministries, the technical quality of the
works carried out and/or goods delivered by contractors and/or implementing agencies and,
monitoring the general performance of contractors and/or implementing agencies; and taking
remedial action, if required;
*     coordinating the activities carried out under the project with the local authorities of the
communities concerned in order to ensure sustainability, ownership and effectiveness of the
different operations;
*     reviewing and signing all contracts, payment orders and disbursement requests related to project
execution;
*     providing necessary technical assistance to executing agencies;
*     monitoring progress in procuremnent, including the creation and operation of a computerized
Procurement Management System;
*     preparing periodic progress reports for the Government and IDA;



-25 -
ANNEX 3A
page 2 of 2
*     coordinating the implementation of preparatory technical studies (final designs, bills of
quantities, etc.) by consultants or government agencies including obtaining necessary approvals,
permits, etc. from relevant authorities;
*      arranging for annual external audits of project accounts; and
*     monitoring feedback from beneficiaries on the adequacy of the project response to the needs of the
population concerned and, if needed, providing, in consultation with IDA, for adjustments in the
project implementation arrangements, project content, or contractual arrangements with
implementing agencies or contractors in accordance with the stipulations of their respective
contracts; and
*      assisting the Government and the local authorities in informing the population about the features
and other aspects of the project.
Within the PCU/PCERP a separate department will be created to be specifically responsible for
procurement and accounting, and, in particular, for:
carrying out all project related procurement activities for goods and works and overseeing all
procurement done by implementing agencies ensuring that IDA procurement procedures are
consistently applied to all contracts for goods, works or services for which IDA funds will be
used to disburse part or all of the contract amount; preparing tender documents, evaluating
offers, preparing award proposals, negotiating and preparing contracts and/or, in the case of the
Small Community Works component, review and approval of project proposals submitted by the
Implementation Manager.
*     controlling the quality of goods delivered and providing, and arranging, if necessary, for
temporary storage;
*      establishing payment orders and disbursement requests; and
*     keeping project accounts in accordance with international standards.



- 26 -
ANNEX 3B
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF PCU
-
a       Prime Minister
.               -
Project - Coordination Unit
PCIU
Post-ConflictReconstuction Project Unit
Post-Conflict                                        RP
Rehabilitation
Credit     .      Z                         Unit Director                 .
Procurement|
Accounting
I                                                              It' 1i      
Bokges             Communit              Agricultural
S     z_                                                 I I
|Enepr    |              Manager|          
'II
LocaA Local
Communite               Farmers
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~_ _



n



- 27 -
ANNEX 4
page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SMALL COMMUNITY WORKS COMPONENT
Eligibility Screening:
The eligibility screening for Small Community Works will consider the following elements:
*     whether the Project Proposal is presented in the right format and provides information on all
elements required by the Application Form included in a set of specific 'Instructions' prepared
jointly by the Implementation Manager and the PCU/PCERP;
*     whether the proposed project has been identified in collaboration with, and is supported by, the
local authorities and the beneficiary community;
*     whether the proposed project falls within the acceptable typology of projects eligible for
financing under the Post-Conflict Reconstruction Project agreed upon by IDA;
*     whether the community is willing to contribute, if needed, with labor or in kind to the project and
to which extent;
Appraisal of Project Proposals
Each project proposal, if considered eligible for financing, will be appraised by the Implementation
Manager taking into account the following elements:
*     numbers of beneficiaries served;
*     cost per beneficiary;
*     sustainability of the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure, facility; or equipment to be
financed;
*     technical and financial soundness of the proposal;
*     environmental soundness of the proposal;
*     gender balance of the proposal;
*     extent of community participation in project implementation;
*     whether proposed works are comprehensive where required; and
*     whether the project can be implemented by a private contractor;



-28 -
ANNEX 4
page 2 of 2
Approval procedures:
*     Projects for works with an estimated value of less than US$ 20,000 equivalent will be approved
by the Implementation Manager without prior approval by PCU/PCERP. Conformity of selection
and appraisal will be subject to periodic ex-post review by PCU/PCERP.
*     Projects for works with an estimated value of between US$ 20,000 equivalent and US$ 100,000
equivalent will be approved by the PCU/PCERP based on the recommendations of the
Implementation Manager.
*     Projects for works with a value in excess of US$ 100,000 equivalent will be approved by the
PCU/PCERP upon review and non objection by IDA.
*     All projects involving the purchase of goods will require prior approval by PCU/PCERP and, in
the case of contracts in excess of US$ 100,000 equivalent, to prior review and no objection by
IDA.



-29 -
ANNEX 5
REPUBLIC OF TAJTKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Target Date                         Activity                              Agency
January 15    Procurement of seeds and fertilizer                     AKF
January 31    Contracting of technical assistance                     PCU /IDA
February 15   Credit Effectiveness                                    IDA
February 15   Appoint PCU/PCERP Director                              PCU
February 28    PCU/PCERP operational                                  PCU
March 15      Supervision mission + procurement workshop              IDA
April 30      Preparation of complementary studies for 'Other Infrastructure
Works' launched
March 31      Tender for Implementation Manager for Small Community   PCU/PCERP
Works component launched
March 31      Contract negotiations for Road and Bridges component    PCUSPCERP
initiated
April 30      Contract negotiations for Road and Bridges component    PCU/PCERP
completed
April 30      Distribution of seeds and fertilizer completed          AKF
May 15        Tender for Implementation Manager for Small Community   PCU/PCERP
Works component evaluated
May 30        Begin works for Bridges and Roads component             SEs
June 15       Implementation Manager for Small Community Works        PCU/PCERP
component contracted
June 30       Begin identification of works for Small Community Works  NGO
component
July 31       First tenders for Small Community Works launched        NGO
August 31     Preparation of complementary studies for 'Other Infrastructure  PCU/PCERP
Works' completed
September 15   Supervision Mission                                    IDA
October 31    Mid -Term Review documents completed                    PCU/PCERP
November 30   Mid -Term Review                                        IDA/PCU/PCERP






-30 -
ANNEX 6
page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
PERFORMANCE MONITORING CRITERIA
Agricultural Support Component:
Quantities of seeds and fertilizer received by AKF               *      March 31, 1998
*      April 30, 1998
Quantities of seeds and fertilizer distributed by AKF            *      March 31, 1998
*      April 30, 1998
Number of farmers enrolled in AKF cooperation programs by        *      March 31, 1998
*      September 30, 1998
*      March 31, 1999
*      September 30, 1999
*      September 30, 2000
Average yield increase (by type of product) by                   *      September 30, 1998
*      September30, 1999
*      September 30, 2000
Average household income increase by                             *      December 31, 199
*      December 31, 1999
*      December 31, 2000
Roads and Bridges:
Number of bridge repair / reconstruction contracts signed by     *      June 30, 1998
*      December 31, 1998
*      June 30, 1999
number of bridge repair / reconstruction contracts in execution by  *   June 30, 1998
*      December 31, 1998
*      June 30, 1999
*      December 31, 1999
number of bridge repair I reconstruction contracts completed by  *      December 31, 1998
*      June 30, 1999
*      December 31, 1999
*      March 31, 2000



-31 -
ANNEX 6
page 2 of 2
Small Community Works
Number of Small Works contracts identified by                    *       June 30, 1998
*      December31, 1998
*      June 30, 1999
*      December 31, 1999
Number of Small Works contracts under execution by               *       December 31, 1998
*      June 30, 1999
*      December 31, 1999
Number of Small Works contracts completed by                     *       December 31, 1998
*      June 30, 1999
*      December 31, 1999
*      March 31, 2000
Number of beneficiaries during six months period preceding       *       December 31, 1998
*      June 30, 1999
*      December 31, 1999
*      March 31, 2000
Number of jobs created during six months period preceding        *       December 31, 1998
*      June 30, 1999
*      December 31, 1999
Amount of credit proceeds spent by rayon by (in total and per capita)   *  December 31, 1998
June 30, 1999
*      December 31, 1999
*      March 31, 2000



STAN 769/                                                              "~^-S JTAJIKISTAN
J Xj >~POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCY
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
IV ,A  0   1  ZBE KISTUZBEKISTAN                         Conflict Areas                                           Roads
ZAFAROBODKHUJAND C \                                                                     *    Selected Cities                              ------   Rural Districts
ZAFAROBOD                             KONIBODOM                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Autonomous Oblast Centers__RuaDitcs
*  Co~~~~0~~~  J~~              @     Oblast Center ~~~~~~~Autonomous Oblast Boundaries
T. DD-<- RA                                                                                                   National Capital                             _Obast Boundariesr
)   I~~~~~~hOLETAR                              no   api ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
UZBEKISTA37           Area with no ablast-leel administrative divisions, where rayons are under direct republic jurisdiction.
UZBEKISTAN                                       >uieAn oblast is named only when its name differs from that of its administrative center.
SHAHRISTON,F          (yb/    
KYRGYZ             REP.        72T                                                                              75'
ZU :{endhiAyni  ~> ~   
--,<.                                                                                   C    C H I N A
This mopvrasum 9dued by thu                                                  Z                                             GITA                                                             ZBEKtSTANJ
Msp Design Uniof rthe World                                                                                                '% > -                                     1_                               I ~ L          \~-'---
in  h.Th besmiavondonussehrs              0              50            100             150KILOMETERS                            N ).                                  .\;b      TRMNSA                             .'KYGZE 
z Tursu ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~i                                                      URMNSA
G1  intern sties shown son rh, mop                                                                                            (                                                     - I            N  
ns  the Wsrtdm1v a Ssnh  rsupen            0                        50                      1100 MILES                                                                  .              AKIST   *\ >\Dsa 
ioojdgmeusean the lugel ststus afet                                                                                                                   ~                                                                                    s
e nymsrrer,ory arny endersemunt                                                                                   -r                                                    ISLAMIC lEP  t.  ""1               ,f : CHINA fi
or eocepteoce ef such eoander,nss               69                                                              /_                     2                                 OF IRAN         *>  ' AFGHANISTAN              1I_7, 
N _________________________________u __________________________________e________________



