Report No. PID5752
Project Name                     Tajikistan-Post-Conflict      re+ n
Reconstruction Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Multisector
Project ID                       TJPE53386
Borrower                         Government of Tajikistan
Implementing Agency              Prime Ministry
Date this PID prepared           October 31, 1997
Projected appraisal Date         November 3, 1997
Projected Board Date             January 29, 1998
A.      Background: After four years of civil war the Tajikistan
Government and the United Tajik Opposition (UTO) signed a peace
agreement in Moscow on June 27, 1997 ending a conflict in which, of
a total population of about 6 million, some 50,000 people lost their
lives and, at the time of most intense fighting, 600,000 people were
internally displaced, and 60,000 took refuge in Afghanistan.
Moreover, because of the economic recession caused by the war,
another 500,000 emigrated to neighboring CIS countries. A
Commission for National Reconciliation (CNR) composed of both
Government officials and opposition members was established and
began to operate in Dushanbe, the capital of Tajikistan, in
September 1997. It will be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the peace agreement and preparing new
parliamentary elections scheduled for mid-1998.
The areas most affected by the conflict were the south of the
country [Khatlon Province] and the center-east region, in particular
the area comprised of the Gharm, Karategin, and Tavildara valleys
and neighboring districts (henceforth referred to as 'the Karategin
Valley area'). The Khatlon Province has been under control of the
Government forces over most of the past years and has benefitted
from a significant relief and reconstruction effort supported by UN
agencies, the international NGO community and, inter alia, the Bank
through its Poverty Alleviation Project (Cr.2946-TJ). The Karategin
Valley area (total population about 250,000), on the other hand, has
remained under the control of the opposition forces and, therefore,
was, with a few exceptions, largely unaccessible to external
assistance agencies and outside the reach of central government
agencies. Although no comprehensive assessment of damages has been
carried out yet, a preliminary survey suggests that the sectors that
suffered most from the war either directly or indirectly were
transport infrastructure, schools, health care facilities, and
agricultural infrastructure and equipment. As importantly, even in
the absence of open fighting, the continuing state of war hindered
the local communities in these valleys from having access to their
traditional, mostly urban, markets in other parts of the country for
produce, fruit, and dairy products and, as a result, caused a



virtual collapse of the local economy and a return to subsistence
farming.
A UN sponsored conference to confirm the political support of
the donor community to the peace process will be held in Vienna,
Austria, at the beginning of November 1997. A comprehensive
National Reconstruction Program addressing the issues of the short-
and medium term reconstruction and recovery needs is under
preparation by the Government with assistance from the UN and is
expected to be presented to a CG meeting early next year.
Preliminary estimates by the Government suggest that short-term
needs alone are in the range of USD 80 to 100 million. Relief
assistance is being provided by various international organizations
including UNCHR, WFP, and others as well as bilaterals and
international NGOs and is considered to be sufficient to cover the
immediate needs.
At the request of the Tajikistan Government, a World Bank
mission visited Tajikistan in September 1997 to identify the outline
of a possible assistance program. In response to the Government's
concerns that shortage of resources and delayed arrival of external
assistance could cause the peace process to derail, the World Bank
decided to launch two simultaneous operations: A Post-Conflict
Rehabilitation Credit of an amount of about USD 10 million
equivalent which is expected to be presented to the Board in
December 1997 and will help the Government to face immediate general
budgetary constraints arising from the peace agreement
implementation and social protection needs; and a Post-Conflict
Reconstruction Credit also of an amount of about USD 10 million,
which, as agreed with both the Government and the leader of the
opposition and chairman of the CNR, will address the specific needs
for repair and reconstruction of transport and social infrastructure
and redevelopment of agriculture in the Karategin Valley area whose
reintegration into the national community represents a key political
factor in sustaining the peace process.
B.      Project Scope and Objectives:   The Post-Conflict
Reconstruction Credit will complement the Post-Conflict
Rehabilitation Credit. Although it will cover only the most
immediate needs of a specific geographical region, it will be the
first large-scale operation to address the problems of
reconstruction and economic recovery on the ground. As such, it
will serve as a pilot for both the design and implementation of the
follow up operations that will be part of the larger National
Reconstruction Program to be discussed with the international donor
community.
The project has been designed by taking into account the
results of a comprehensive needs assessment carried out in October
1997 among the local communities of the Karategin Valley by a
Tajik/World Bank team in close cooperation with, and support from,
the UN, and with the active involvement of the local authorities. It
will help finance a series of investments needed in the next two
years to rehabilitate and rebuild severely damaged transport and
social infrastructure, and to restore agricultural production
- 2 -



capacity in the Karategin Valley area.
C.      Project Description: To achieve these objectives the project
will, in principle, include three main components: (i) repair and/or
reconstruction of various damaged bridges and roadways on road links
of regional or local economic interest; (ii) repair and/or
rehabilitation of schools, health care centers and other community
facilities; and (iii) rehabilitation of agricultural infrastructure,
in particular, small-scale irrigation systems. Other components
could be identified during the project appraisal in November 1997.
D.      Project Cost and Financing:   The total project cost is
estimated at SDR 7.3 million or USD 10 million equivalent, with,
according to very preliminary estimates, about SDR 4.4 million (USD
6.0 million) for the roads and bridges component, SDR 2.2 million
(USD 3.0 million) for the schools, health center and community
facilities component and SDR 0.7 million (USD 1.0 million) for
support to agriculture. Grant co-financing in amount of about USD
1.5 million for the technical assistance to support project
implementation is being sought.
E.      Project Implementation:   The project will be implemented over
a period of about two years beginning in Spring 1998. To oversee
and coordinate project implementation management a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established in the Prime Minister's
office. The PCU will issue monthly supervision reports including
statements on the use of credit funds to the Prime Minister and the
CNR. The roads and bridges component will be executed under the
technical oversight of the Ministry of Transport. Because of the
small scale and the geographical dispersion of the project elements
and the need to work in close association with the population
concerned the implementation of the community facilities
rehabilitation and agricultural input components will be contracted
out to International Organizations (IOs) or Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs) already involved in the implementation of such
programs in the Karategin Valley area and/or other parts of
Tajikistan. Setting up mechanisms to involve local authorities in
project implementation and thereby strengthen local administration
capacity will also be explored.
Because their nature and size are unlikely to elicit the
interest of foreign contractors, all works will be procured through
national competitive bidding or, when impractical, implemented
through force account.
G.      Environmental Aspects:   The project is classified as a
category (B-) operation. It will not have any environmental issue
associated with its implementation since it will focus exclusively
on the reconstruction and/or repair of existing infrastructure or
facilities. It will not involve any resettlement. Currently
available information suggests that landmines are not an issue of
importance.
H.      Poverty Impact:    Although the project is not targeted at a
specific social category, it is aimed at improving the livelihood of
- 3 -



communities that were cut off from the rest of the country and
marginalized by the war, and the majority of whom are poor by any
standards.
I.      Benefits and Risks: The proposed project will help the
communities of the Karategin Valley area to regain access to markets
for their agricultural production and redevelop the local economies.
It will also create a substantial number of employment
opportunities. The restoration of schools and health care
facilities will have a significant positive impact on the delivery
of educational and health services. By contributing to the
reintegration of a community that was marginalized by the effects of
the conflict the project will yield visible developmental as well as
political benefits .
The project faces considerable risks, many of which cannot be
avoided. These risks fall into two broad categories: (a) Political
risks: Despite a promising start, the continuing successful
implementation of the peace agreement remains a fragile enterprise.
The demobilization of soldiers and their reintegration into civil
life in the context of Tajikistan's economy constitutes a formidable
challenge and its favorable completion could be adversely
jeopardized by the rigors of the coming winter. Moreover, the
existence of a few warlords who are neither under control of the
Government nor the opposition represents a persistent threat to the
economy and political stability. Last, there is a risk that
problems from political and military developments in neighboring
Afghanistan could spill over into Tajikistan. Political risks are
difficult to manage, but the provision of budgetary support under
PCAC I to help the Government bear some of the costs of the peace
process can be expected to contribute to bolstering political
stability. (b) Managerial and technical risks: Effective and
timely implementation of the project requires the early creation of
the PCU, including the appointment of key staff. The capacity of
the local consulting and contracting industry is not known at this
point, and contracting bottlenecks could delay implementation. The
diversion of credit resources to other uses is an additional risk.
The risks are minimized by (a) the simplicity of the design of the
project focussing on a few key components, (b) the relatively
unsophisticated nature of the works to be carried out, (c) the
provision of technical assistance as early as possible in the
implementation process, and (d) the involvement of IOs and NGOs that
already have experience in the management of this type of
reconstruction and rehabilitation works in the project area and/or
Tajikistan. Placing the project under the responsibility of the
Prime Minister and having its implementation closely monitored by
the CNR should help ensure the appropriate use of funds and minimize
the risks of diversion.
Contact point:           Felix A. Jakob, Team Leader
The World Bank
1818 H St. NW
Washington, D.C., 20433
- 4 -



Tel.: (202) 473 70 73
Fax.: (202) 6477 13 86
Note: This information is provided for an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank Infoshop week ending November 14, 1997.
- 5 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The project is classified as a category (B-) operation. It will not
have any environmental issue associated with its implementation
since it will focus exclusively on the reconstruction and/or repair
of existing infrastructure or facilities. It will not involve any
resettlement. Currently available information suggests that
landmines are not an issue of importance.
- 6 -



