Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22209
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-30370; TF-23473; TF-21299)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR7.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
FOR A
POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
June 8, 2001
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 200 1)
Currency Unit = Tajik Somoni
I TJS = US$ 0.426
US$ 1 = 2.35 TJS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AKF           = Aga Khan Foundation
CAS           = Country Assistance Strategy
CIS           = Commonwealth of Independent States
CNR           = Commission for National Reconciliation
ERL           = Economic Recovery Lending Assistance
FAO           = Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
IBRD          = International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           = International Competitive Bidding
IDA           = International Development Association
MOTRA         = Ministry of Transportation and Road Administration
NCB           = National Competitive Bidding
NGO           = Non-Governmental Organization
PCERP         = Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project
PCU           = Project Coordination Unit
PHRD          = Policy and Human Resources Development
PPAP          = Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project
lJNHCR        = United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UlNDHA        = United Nations Department for Humanitarian Affairs
UNDP          = United Nations Development Program
UNMOT         = United Nations Mission of Observers to Tajikistan
UNOPS         = United Nations Office for Project Services
TASIF         = Tajikistan Social Investment Fund
UTO           = United Tajik Opposition
WFP           = World Food Program
WHO           = World Health Organization
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Kiyoshi Kodera, ECCO8
Sector Director/Manager:    Ricardo Halperin/Margret Thalwitz
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Felix Jakob/Gailius J. Draugelis



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TAJIKISTAN
POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    6
6. Sustainability                                                                        8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      10
9. Partner Comments                                                                     11
10. Additional Information                                                              11I
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    17
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       18
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   19
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                     23-38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P053386                                        Project Name: Post Conflict Reconstruction
Team Leader: Felix A. Jakob                                TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 5, 200]
1. Project Data
Name: Post Conflict Reconstruction                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-30370; TF-23473;
TF-21299
CountiylDepartment: TAJIKISTAN                                            Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AY - Other Agriculture; EP - Primary Education;
HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi; TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/01/1997                               Effective: 02/24/1998         02/24/1998
Appraisal:  11/03/1997                                 MTR: 10/30/1999            10/18/1999
Approval:  01/29/1998                               Closing: 09/30/2000          01/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN/PRIME MINISTER OFFICE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Coumntry MWanager:   Kiyoshi Kodera                             Ishrat Husain
Sector Manager:      Ricardo A. Halperin                        Ricardo A. Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:   Felix A. Jakob                            Felix A. Jakob
ICR Primary Auithor:   Felix Jakob; Jacques Bure;
Gailius J. Draugelis; Shobha
Subramanian
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Suistainability: UN
Institutionial Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Peujbrmance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entrv: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Tinme: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Objective:
As a result of the breakup of the Former Soviet Union, Tajikistan gained independence in 1991. Civil war
erupted in May 1992 as different regional and political groups struggled for redistribution of power. The
armed conflict continued for the next four years with varying intensity. An estimated 50,000 people lost
their lives, about 600,000 were displaced inside the country, and over half a million emigrated to other CIS
countries and Russia, a large number among them being professionals and skilled workers. GDP fell by at
least 50% and most economic activities came to a standstill plunging a large portion of the population into
poverty. After complex and protracted negotiations under the auspices of the UN, the Government of
Tajikistan and the United Tajik Opposition (UTO) signed the 'General Agreement on the Establishment of
Peace and National Accord in Tajikistan' (henceforth "Peace Agreement") on June 27, 1997 in Moscow.
To monitor the implementation of the Peace Agreement a specific bi-partisan body, the Commission for
National Reconciliation (CNR), was created. Additionally, the United Nations Security Council extended
and expanded the mandate of the United Nations Mission to Tajikistan (UNMOT) to (i) assist the
Government and UTO in the implementation of the peace process; (ii) monitor the disarming and
demobilization of UTO fighters; (iii) investigate cease-fire violations; and (iv) cooperate with the CNR in
the preparation of national elections. The peace agreement has held steady since 1997, but security has
remained a major issue. After cessation of hostilities a number of armed paramilitary groups repeatedly
took hostage or harassed both Tajik personalities and personnel of international organizations, including
attacking and murdering four UN peacekeepers on July 1998. By exacting heavy levies from commercial
and passenger traffic, these gangs also severely impeded economic recovery in many areas of the country.
The primary and exclusive objective of the Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project (PCERP) was
to support the Government of Tajikistan and the UTO in the implementation of the Peace Agreement. To
this end, the PCERP was to help facilitate the reintegration of the residents of the Karategin-Tavildara
Valley area into the national economy through the implementation of a targeted program of reconstruction
of physical and social infrastructure, and emergency support to agricultural development. Because of its
strategic position within the country, the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area, with a population of about
250,000, had been fought over throughout most of the war period and, at the signing of the Peace
Agreement, was still under effective control of the UTO and its field commanders.
The objectives of PCERP were clearly defined and consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
discussed by the Board on May 16, 1996. The CAS objectives were to arrest the intensification of poverty
through measures aimed at fostering employment intensive economic growth and, to that end, to support
basic assistance programs which would help moderate the effects of the war induced economic collapse on
the most vulnerable groups.
PCERP was part of a broader concerted international effort to support the implementation of the Peace
Agreement coordinated by the United Nations (UN). In addition to PCERP, IDA assistance was provided
through the Post Conflict Emergency Recovery Project Credit (Cr. 3022-TJ) of SDR 7.3 million,
approved on December 18, 1997 for general budgetary assistance to help accelerate the country's economic
recovery; and an IDA Post-Conflict Grant of US$150,000 to the CNR , approved in April 1998 for
facilitating the reintegration of ex-UTO combatants into civilian life. An IMF Post-Conflict Emergency
Assistance Program was approved on December 22, 1997. Significant contributions were made by other
members of the donor community, in particular, the major UN agencies (UNDP, UNCHR, WFP, FAO,
UNDHA, WHO, UNICEF), as well as large number of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). The
PCERP itself received complementary support from a Japanese PHRD Post-Conflict Grant of US$1.5
- 2 -



million for project implementation assistance (TF023473) signed on March 10, 1998, and a Swiss
Government Grant of CHF750,000 (US$500,000 equivalent) for complementary finding for bridge
reconstruction, (TF021299), signed on May 6, 1999.
PCERP was a demanding project because of the Borrower's initial unfamiliarity with IDA guidelines and
procedures, the shortage of local staff with the necessary knowledge and skills, and, at least at the
beginning, extensive communication problems due to language and technological barriers. The most
critical and persistent challenge for PCERP, however, was the continuing instability and insecurity in the
country. It not only severely strained the local implementation capacity but also restricted IDA's ability to
adequately supervise the project since most of the Karategin-Tavildara Valley was under a strict UN travel
ban during the whole life of the project and was, therefore, inaccessible to Bank supervision missions until
and after the completion of the operation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives of PCERP were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
PCERP - at a total cost of US$11.0 million equivalent (US$9.9 million - base cost) - proposed to finance
the following components:
(a) support to agriculture through the purchase and distribution of agricultural inputs (wheat and potato
seeds, and fertilizer) to private farmers for the Spring 1998 planting season (US$0.6 million equivalent or
6% of base cost);
(b) road infrastructure rehabilitation through the repair or reconstruction of fifteen bridges as well as the
completion of a 4.5 km by-pass road for the town of Darband, (US$5.1 million equivalent or 51% of base
cost);
(c) small community works to repair destroyed, damaged or dilapidated schools, health care facilities and
other community facilities for villages in the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area, (US$2.3 million equivalent
or 23% of base cost); and
(d) other infrastructure works for the repair of war-damaged infrastructure in the power and agriculture
sectors, (US$1.9 million equivalent or 20% of base cost).
The components were adequately designed to achieve the objectives of the project and took into account the
initially extremely weak administrative, technical and financial management capacity of the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU). The commitment of the staff of the PCU - which was headed by a former
Government Minister and member of the CNR - was instrumental in mitigating the weaknesses and
allowed the project to be carried out with a reasonably acceptable level of quality in technical,
administrative and financial management.
3.4 Revised Componients:
No major revision of components was made. Successive credit reallocations were required to reflect cost
variations and a series of minor adjustments to work programs became necessary to adequately address the
population's needs as they emerged during implementation.
- 3 -



3.5 QIualiti, ut Entty:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did a quality enhancement review (QER) for quality at entry in
January 1999 and rated it satisfactory, stating in particular that the operation reflected: "Quick response
to emergency need and rapid processing from identification to Board approval. Clear linkages to CAS
objectives and up-front collaboration with other donors as well as keeping them involved during
implementation. Good synergy with other ongoing reconstruction activities in the country. Tajikistan
being a high risk country, however, a high risk project though with commensurate high rewards ".
PCERP was conceived, in accordance with the guidelines of OP/BP 8.5 for Economic Recovery
Assistance, as an emergency reconstruction project (ERL) in response to the Government's request for
support to the implementation of the Peace Agreement. It was prepared in the short time of about three
months in close consultation with the agencies of the UN system, the representatives of the international
donor community in Tajikistan, the Aga Khan Foundation and other non governmental organizations. An
identification mission was carried out in September 1997, followed by appraisal in November 1997. A
Social Needs Assessment was carried out in the Karategin-Tavildara Valley area with the assistance of
UNDP in September/October, 1997. The IDA Board of Directors approved the operation on January 29,
1998. The Credit Agreement was signed on February 17, 1998 and the Credit was declared effective on
February 24, 1998.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objectii e:
From the point of view of delivery of the planned results, the outcome/achievement of PCERP can be rated
as satisfactory for all components. The project was one of the first investment lending operations in
Tajikistan. In keeping with the guiding principles for an emergency operation it did not aim at addresing
any macro-economic policy or sector policy issues. The only and exclusive objective of PCERP was to
support the Government in its efforts to implement the Peace Agreement and to help it make a visible
contribution to the immediate termn improvement of the living conditions of the inhabitants of the
Karategin-Tavildara Valley area. This essentially political objective was fully met. The timely supply of
new wheat and potato seeds prevented major food shortages and was instrumental in the redevelopment of
agricultural production. The rehabilitation and reconstruction of a number of bridges allowed the
reopening of the main transports links in the Karategin-Tavildara Valley and restored road access for the
population to outside markets, and in particular, the more densely populated Dushanbe metropolitan area.
The reconstruction of social and economic infrastructure had a positive effect on the development of the
local communities and led to significant improvements in the delivery conditions for educational and health
services in frequently remote and previously not accessible villages. The creation of a considerable number
of temporary jobs, including for ex-combatants, provided substantial monetary support to the population
and helped revive the local economy.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The design of PCERP was appropriate for all four components and in several cases outputs exceeded the
original targets. Achievements for each component are evaluated below:
Support to agriculture, (projected US$0.6 million equivalent , actual US$1.2 million equivalent): The
original objective of the component was the purchase and distribution of 150 tons of wheat seeds, 650
tons of potato seeds and 660 tons of fertilizer for the 1998 Spring planting season. In reality, over its
- 4 -



three-year lifetime the project actually managed to procure and distribute about 120 tons of wheat seeds
slightly less than planned, but more than 2,700 tons of potato seeds and about 1,000 tons of fertilizer. The
implementation of the component was managed, in the first year, by the Aga Khan Foundation (AKF), an
NGO with considerable prior experience in the provision of agricultural development support to small
communities in both Tajikistan and other countries of the region. In view of the good results obtained
during the first year, the Government decided to continue and expand the agricultural support program in
the second and third year. However, as a result of divergences of opinion between AKF and the PCU on
implementation procedures, the management of the component was taken over by the PCU after the first
year. The program benefited a total of about 5,000 farmers who were cultivating an area of about 3,500
has. (1,970 has. for wheat and 1,560 for potatoes).
Road infrastructure rehabilitation (projected US$5.1 million equivalent, actual US$4.9 million equivalent).
As in the case of the agricultural support component, the output under the road infrastructure rehabilitation
component exceeded the original targets of sixteen bridges and one road section to be repaired or rebuilt. A
total of nineteen bridges and two road sections were repaired or rebuilt. All of these works represented in
situ replacements within the existing rights of way. The implementation of the component was managed by
the Ministry of Transport and Roads (MOTRA) under a relatively cumbersome arrangement imposed by
the IDA (see lessons learned). Under this arrangement, the PCU procured directly all materials required for
the works through international competitive bidding (ICB), while MOTRA provided the necessary labor
and equipment through its two specialized State enterprises for road construction (Tajikdorstroi) and bridge
construction (Mostospesstroi) and managed the actual execution of the works. The works carried out under
the component allowed the reopening of permanent road links between Dushanbe and the Kyrgyz Republic
and between Dushanbe and Gomo-Badakshan, the Easternmost Region of the country which had been
inaccessible by road since 1992.
Two additional bridges were financed from a Swiss Grant (TF21299, US$500,000 equivalent) made
available in 1999. In the case of one of the two bridges, the works financed from this grant entailed the
relocation of the bridge to a different and geologically less vulnerable site as well as the construction of a
new access road. This required, for the first time in Tajikistan, the prior implementation of a detailed
environmental impact assessment and a resettlement review in accordance with the IDA's guidelines for
these matters.
Small community works (projected US$2.3 million equivalent, actual US$2.9 million equivalent). The
design of the component was inspired by the Pilot Poverty Alleviation Project -PPAP (Cr. 2964-TJ)
approved in April 1997. The component financed the rehabilitation of some 106 schools, 40 health care
facilities and 25 other community facilities such as bathhouses etc. The implementation of the component
was entrusted to three Tajik NGOs (Fidokor, Oriyon, and Ganji Karategin) and UNOPS. These four
entities managed on behalf, and under close supervision, of the PCU the on-site selection of projects in
close coordination with the local authorities (hukumat) and in accordance with the criteria agreed at
appraisal, the procurement of works through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) among  local
contractors, and the supervision of works execution by the latter. (The role played by UNOPS was much
smaller than originally anticipated because, due to the reinstatement of the UN travel ban for the
Karategin-Tavildara Valley area after the murder of four UNMOT observers in July 1998, it was
prevented for more than a year from operating in the project area). A total of 154 contracts were
implemented by 112 local contractors. The component also provided for the purchase of educational
equipment (desks, blackboards, etc) obtained on the basis of international competitive shopping procedures.
The local population contributed through in-kind assistance and labor. In particular, inhabitants actively
participated in the planting of about 15,000 new trees. The rehabilitation of schools is estimated to have
benefited about 35,000 pupils. Benefits of the rehabilitation of health care and other facilities are more
-5 -



difficult to evaluate and quantify but are believed to be substantial.
Other infrastructure works (projected US$2.1 million equivalent, actual US$1.9 million equivalent). The
component provided for the cleaning and repair of about 280 kms of irrigation canals, the repair and
reconstruction of around 100 kms of power transmission lines, 66 power transmitters, two high-voltage
substations, and 66 transformer stations, as well as the reconstruction of 11 small rural road bridges The
implementation of works related to power infrastructure was managed by Barki Tojik, Tajikistan's national
power company, under arrangements identical to those of the Roads and Bridges component. Under these
arrangements, Barki Tojik provided the labor and installation equipment, while the PCU procured the
necessary materials separately on the basis of ICB. Part of the irrigation works was carried out under the
management of AKF and involved the temporary employment of about 590 persons of which about 100
were ex-combatants. The entire irrigation subcomponent benefited a total of about 770 farmers and a
cultivated area of about 15,700 has. Various small bridges on rural roads were repaired and rebuilt by
local contractors under supervision by MOTRA re-establishing road access for about 80 villages with a
total population of around 70,000.
Despite the difficulties prevailing in the country and the persistent security problems, all components were
completed satisfactorily and on time. The closing date of the credit was extended by four months from
September 30, 2000 to January 31, 2001, primarily to allow for the completion of the annual audit of the
project accounts for the year 2000.
4.3 iVet Present Value/Economic rate o /r eturn:
An economic analysis was not carried out at appraisal due to the ERL nature of the project.
4.4 Financial rate o0/retuirn:
A financial rate of return was not calculated at project due to the ERL nature of the project
4.5 Institutionial deielopme'wt impact:
Consistent with its nature as an emergency reconstruction project, PCERP had no specific institutional
development objective. The PCU was created for the specific and exclusive purpose of management of the
project and with the understanding that it would be dismantled upon completion of the project. The PHRD
Grant that was made available for the implementation of the project was instrumental for developing local
capacity.   Most likely, after having acquired an extensive knowledge of IDA project management
procedures, PCU staff will be able to make their expertise available to the preparation and implementation
of other operations of both the Bank and other donors in Tajikistan. Likewise, the exposure of MOTRA
staff to external technical advise and to procedures governing international procurement and environmental
impact assessment is likely to benefit the Governmrent in its future cooperation with other members of the
donor community.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control oJ governnent or implementing agenc y:
The most critical  problems for the project arose from  the combined effects of  Tajikistan's
macro-economic difficulties, the persisting insecurity in the country, and the continuing de facto control of
the Karategin-Tavildara Valley by the UTO during the first year of project implementation. As a result,
the Government lacked the capacity to fully and permanently enforce security on the major road links to
- 6 -



and within the project area. However, the potentially severe consequences of this situation were mitigated,
to a significant extent, by the CNR's full cooperation and support. In particular, its instructions to UTO
field commanders to not obstruct the transport of goods and equipment to the Karategin-TavildaraValley
allow the free circulation of workers and PCU staff within the project area, (see letter to UTO commander
in Annex 7). Even so, working conditions remained fragile, however, and in at least two known cases,
contractors and local government officials related to the project were attacked and killed by unidentified
assailants. The precarious security conditions in Tajikistan made it extremely difficult to recruit quality
international consultants to assist the PCU in the numbers and length of time that would have been
desirable. The effectiveness of those few international consultants who were hired under a PHRD grant,
was substantially reduced because IDA rules required that these consultants, like the IDA's own staff, had
to comply with UN travel restrictions to the project area and therefore remained confined to the PCU
offices in Dushanbe.
5.2 Factors generally suibject to goverinient control:
Although the Government, in principle, was from the outset, fully committed to the implementation of
PCERP, this commitment did not always translate immediately into necessary decisions at the various
levels of State administration. Counterpart funding, in particular, was slow in materializing, especially in
the first year of the project and the resulting lack of timely availability of the full amount of required
resources created substantial difficulties for many, and, in particular, smaller contractors. The problems
of these contractors were compounded by the lack of a properly functioning banking system in Tajikistan.
As a result, the contractors were obliged to collect contract payments in cash in Dushanbe and transport the
funds by road back to the project area at the risk of their lives. However, funding conditions saw
significant improvements in the second and third year and these changes were instrumental for the timely
completion of the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The initially weak administrative, technical and financial management capacity of the PCU was
compensated by the strong commitment of the staff, including its director, a former Government Minister
and member of the CNR. Although the capacity in these areas substantially increased over the three-year
lifetime of the project thanks to the assistance provided by a few consultants hired under the PHRD
Post-Conflict Grant and the extensive support provided by the IDA's project team through electronic mail
and telephone communications, noticeable weaknesses continued to persist, especially in the areas of
procurement management and site supervision. In these areas especially, the maintenance of documentation
was unfortunately less than satisfactory in ensuring full transparency of the transactions made under the
project.
5.4 Costs and financing:
There was no cost overrun and the project was completed at the originally agreed cost of US$11.0 million
equivalent. Initial problems with counterpart funding were, as indicated above, overcome in the course of
implementation and the final Government contribution matched the original commitment of US$1.0 million
equivalent. A gap of CHF20,000 (US$12,000 equivalent) for a contract financed from the Swiss Grant
that resulted from unfavorable US$/CHF exchange rate fluctuations, was bridged by an additional grant
allocation from the Swiss Government made in early 2001.
- 7-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainabilitv r ating:
PCERP was prepared to address the reconstruction and rehabilitation needs of an area that had suffered for
several years from intermittent fighting and, as a result, had been neglected by the Government. The
principal objective of PCERP was to help the Government visibly demonstrate its commitment to the Peace
Agreement by the execution of a program of works that support the reintegration of the
Karategin-Tavildara Valley residents into the national economy. For these very reasons, sustainability was
not, and could not, be taken as a key parameter for project design. Sustainability of results remains a
critical issue, however, though to a large extent it depends on factors that are the result of overall
Government policies and/or in Tajikistan's macro-economic conditions and are therefore, outside the control
of the project area's population and/or authorities.  Road maintenance, for instance, which is a
responsibility of the Government and specifically its Ministry of Transport and Roads, is chronically
underfunded in all regions of the country and lacks the necessary equipment and adequately experienced
personnel. Likewise, school textbooks and teachers are provided by the Ministry of Education which is
continuously faced with severe budgetary problems. An increased involvement of local communities in
maintenance and operation of public facilities would be desirable. It would, however, require a substantial
change in attitude and therefore represents an objective that could only be achieved in the long-term at the
cost of a significant and continuous educational effort for which a short-term emergency operation like
PCERP could not provide the necessary environment.
6.2 Transition arrangentent to regular operations:
PCERP was an operation exclusively designed to provide emergency reconstruction assistance. From the
outset it was agreed that no follow up operation would be planned and the PCU dismantled upon
completion of the project. Repaired roads and bridges are part of the national road network and will be
maintained and operated by MOTRA. Upon their repair and rehabilitation, community facilities were
handed over to the respective communities for operation and maintenance. These communities were also
encouraged to establish a link with other Bank supported institutions such as TASIF (created under the
PPAP Project) in order to leam from other experiences and improve their ability to manage facilities and
local infrastructure.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending.
IDA's performance during preparation was satisfactory. PCERP was, aside from the PPAP Project which
was still at an incipient stage of implementation in Fall 1997, IDA's first investment operation in
Tajikistan. IDA carried out project identification, preparation appraisal, and Board presentation with
limited staff resources in a difficult environment in the short time of three months. Project preparation was
completed in full accordance with the Government's priorities for the implementation of the Peace
Agreement, and in close coordination with the other donors and, in particular, the agencies of the UN
system and the NGO community active in Tajikistan.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA's performance during supervision was satisfactory.
- 8 -



IDA project team made a considerable effort to cope with both the effects of the limited resources made
available for the supervision within the country budget allocations, and the difficulties created for
supervision by the insecurity in Tajikistan. To compensate for the inaccessibility of the project area during
most of the project's lifetime, innovative supervision methods, including video filming were developed.
Technical support and advise was provided through intensive use of electronic mail, fax and telephone
communications. IDA also showed considerable flexibility in adjusting the legal requirements to the
evolving requirements of project implementation as demonstrated by the number of successive amendments
to the Credit Agreement (5), the PHRD Post-Conflict Grant Agreement (2), and the Swiss Grant
Agreement (2). On the other hand, IDA did not fully account for the fact that an operation like PCERP -
because of its very nature and the shortness of its preparation - was necessarily more resource-intensive to
supervise than a traditionally prepared operation. The first year of supervision, in particular, had to rely on
relatively junior staff funded from an Italian Consultant Trust Fund. No resources could be made
available to ensure adequate monitoring of the social effects of the project on the Karategin-Tavildara
Valley population, (though, admittedly this would anyway have been a difficult, if not impossible, task
given the security conditions and the UN travel restrictions)
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Despite the shortfall of Bank budgetary resources,
project staff made a noteworthy effort to provide necessary support to the Borrower and allow the project
to move forward and reach a relatively satisfactory completion.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's contribution to project preparation was relatively small and limited to the discussion of
the overall structure of the project and the implementation arrangements. The reason for this was that the
Government (already short of skilled personnel) in general could not muster the counterpart staff required
in the short time given by project preparation. Project preparation was largely carried out by IDA with the
logistical support of the UN system. A problem worth being mentioned is the Government's initial
reluctance to accept the involvement of NGOs, in particular AKF, in project implementation. The position
taken by the Government delayed for some time, completion of project preparation, though the issue was
eventually resolved through discussions between Bank senior management and the Government.
7.5 Government implementation perbrmnance:
Once the PCU was set up and operational, the direct involvement of senior Government officials in the
project became limited to overall oversight and monitoring. Initial difficulties in the provision of
counterpart funding were overcome in the course of implementation. What must be mentioned is the
important role played by the CNR. It greatly facilitated communications with the UTO field commanders
in the Karategin-Tavildara Valley and without whose help the project could not have been brought to a
successful completion.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the PCU is rated satisfactory. The staff hired with the support of the PHRD
Post-Conflict Grant were generally competent and showed a sustained and sincere commitment. The PCU
managed to successfully cope with the logistical difficulties created by the persistent security problems in
the project area and was able to maintain project implementation at a satisfactory pace. It also managed to
-9-



ensure an efficient coordination among the different agencies involved.  Reporting was of highly
satisfactory quality and timely throughout the entire implementation period. Financial management was
satisfactory and all audits carried out by international auditors were consistently unqualified. Management
of procurement was the only area where, in the areas of record keeping, PCU performance was of a level
lower than hoped. Critically important for the successful implementation of the project were the previously
created personal links between the PCU management on one hand, Government officials, and CNR
members on the other hand. The existence of these links allowed the PCU to deal effectively with the often
competing and politically sensitive interests of the different parties to the Peace Agreement.
7.7 Overall Borr ower perfor mance:
Taking into account the resource constraints and the prevailing circumstances, the overall performance of
the Borrower can be rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Projects like PCERP that are prepared in a very short time with a view to respond swiftly to a natural
disaster or another emergency, cannot be prepared with the same degree of detail as a traditional operation.
They have to be designed with a great built-in flexibility in order to be able to adequately address
unforeseeable needs as they evolve from the reconstruction process. Such operations are necessarily more
resource intensive than traditional operations and resource allocations for supervision should be made on a
case by case basis taking into account the specific circumstances of the project. By amalgamating such
operations with regular projects in the annual budget preparation, IDA runs a risk to create itself the
ingredients for a project rated unsatisfactory.
The ultimate objective of PCERP was essentially political in nature. Its purpose was to allow the
Government to demonstrate to the inhabitants of the Karategin-Tavildara Valley that the years of neglect
were over and the reintegration into the national economy was more than a matter of words. In keeping
with this objective, the PCU tried to spread the project operations geographically as widely as possible with
a view to reach out to the communities. While logical from a political point of view, this approach carried
the inconvenience that visibility appeared more important than a realistic assessment of the usefulness of
an operation for the development of the community. The question for IDA is whether this kind of project is
still meaningful, if undertaken as an isolated, one-time operation, or whether it should only be contemplated
if it can be followed by complementary development-oriented operation supported by either Bank, another
donor, or the Government. MOTRA is responsible for the maintenance of the roads and bridges
rehabilitated under this project, for instance, but is underfunded to carry out this task.
A related issue is the diversity of sectors covered by the project. Despite some initial pressures from Bank
management to adopt a more comprehensive approach and cover a wide spectrum of problems, the
consensus reached was that given the prevailing circumstances in Tajikistan, the project should concentrate
on a relatively limited number of sectors (agriculture, transport infrastructure, community facilities, and
electric power). The question is whether even such a modest objective was not already too ambitious
given, on one hand, the capacity and resource limitations in Tajikistan and, on the other hand, the the staff
and budgetary constraints of IDA. On the side of Tajikistan in particular, none of the results could have
been achieved without the financial support provided to the PCU, on an exceptional basis, by the Japan
PHRD Post-Conflict Grant.
A noteworthy achievement of PCERP was to give a critically important role to play to locally based
- 10-



organizations, such as UNDP, UNOPS, and AKF and, to a lesser extent, local NGOs, in the
implementation of the small community works component of the project.  UNOPS provided critical
support for the needs assessment during project preparation, and implementation of the small community
works, while AKF did the same for the agricultural component. While the local NGOs were not subject to
UN travel restrictions they lacked familiarity with Bank operations, especially in matters of procurement.
From a conceptual point of view, though, the PCERP formula could provide a useful model for other
similar Bank operations. The use of local branches of international organizations and local NGOs can help
muster, within a short timeframe, adequately skilled personnel. To use local NGOs efficiently it is
important, however, to properly assess their capacity and specific strengths to adequately provision training
time and resources in the supervision costs. Availability of local expertise provides the flexibility needed
for responding to rapidly changing circumstances, ensures an appropriate understanding of local conditions
and needs, and guarantees an acceptable level in the quality of implementation supervision as well as
monitoring of results in remote areas. However, to be used successfully, such an arrangement would
require IDA to have a substantially more flexible and operational attitude particularly in matters of
procurement for small-scale community operations.
The procurement arrangements for the roads and bridges component provide another example that
highlights the potential risks of conflict between the requirements set by Bank rules and the need for
operational flexibility. At the time of project preparation, no private construction companies of the size
necessary for the implementation of larger bridge and road works existed in Tajikistan and therefore, the
only possible solution was to use the existing State enterprises for roads and bridges. Although the use of
force account as a procurement method for works is in principle accepted in IDA's procurement guidelines
for exceptional cases, IDA Regional Management was convinced, that accepting force account as a
procurement method in the case of PCERP would set a dangerous precedent for Central Asian countries
and increase the risks of fraud and corruption. As a result, IDA insisted on the setting up of an altemative
procurement arrangement that not only was considerably more management intensive and taxed the
logistical capacities of the PCU to the limits, but in addition proved to be equally unprotected against to
potential transparency losses.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implemnenting agency:
See Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments were received from the authorities of the Swiss Government responsible for assistance to
Tajikistan.
(c) Other partiners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments were received from the involved NGOs.
10. Additional Information
Feedback from the communities:
The following summarizes the views on the project objectives, priorities, design and implementation of
stakeholders in the Karategin-Tavildara Valley gathered during a supervision mission carried out in
May/June 2000.
According to the PCU regional coordinators for Gharm, Jirgitol, Tajikabad and Tavildara sections of the
project area, the population recognized that the PCERP's main objective was to facilitate the peace
- 1 1 -



process, to show people that peace would bring benefits to the communities. People expressed the opinion
that building fewer schools and furnishing them more adequately with educational equipment and material
would have been a preferable option to rehabilitating a larger number of schools to a minimum level of
operating conditions. However, they also recognized that if these facilities had not been rehabilitated, they
would have been totally lost. The "fewer schools" option would have been appropriate if a follow on
project that would not have been of an emergency nature could have been prepared. All communities
confirmed that their priorities were rehabilitation of schools and redevelopment of agriculture. It was
greatly appreciated that ex-combatants were given temporary work opportunities. In the view of the
coordinators, if the project had not existed, the reintegration process of the Karategin-Tavildara Valley
would have taken much longer and some people might have migrated either to another part of Tajikistan or
to neighboring countries. The coordinators noted the positive effects of the involvement of the local
population as it contributed to increased people's working skills. As to the question what could/should
have been done to improve the design and.implementation arrangements of the project, the coordinators
found it difficult to give an opinion since PCERP was their first experience with a project funded by an
international organization.
The UTO commander for Jirgitol area expressed his appreciation of PCERP. He confirmed that some of
his former combatants had participated in labor activities under the project and that even though the jobs
provided by the project were temporary, the creation of new employment opportunities sent a message to
ex-combatants and communities that working was more beneficial than using guns or sitting idle and
waiting for assistance. He underlined that agricultural support should be increased since agriculture was
Jirgitol's main economic potential and the area, in the past, was one of Tajikistan's main producers of
potatoes.
Teachers at some of the schools rehabilitated under the project confirmed that their concern was the lack of
educational equipment and material. Aside from that, their main problem was their unsteady financial
conditions. Many had not been paid for months and, even if they had been paid, their monthly salary of
between USD4 and USDI0 did not allow them to survive. All the more so, since half of the interviewed
group consisted of women that had lost their husbands.
The staff of a rural hospital rehabilitated under PCERP, was clearly pleased by the support received from
the project. The 30-bed hospital provides services to a population of about 9,000 people living in several
villages only accessible over difficult mountain roads. While the repair works funded under PCERP
permitted to prevent further deterioration of the facilities, the problem of inadequate supply of medical
equipment and medicines remained without a satisfactory solution. Moreover, like in the case of the
teachers, staff had not received any salary for months, which even in the case of the head of the hospital,
did not exceed the equivalent of USD4.00 per month.
- 12 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndtIXatoi   x                                                            AckualLastP Estimate
No indicators proposed.
Output Indicators:
Indkca      _  .trlx                Projected in last PSR                 A     atest Estimate
Agnculture Component:
1. Number of farmers that will receive seeds 1. 5300 farmers participated in the program. Same as last PSR
and fertilizers under the PCERP.      2. 2700 tons of potato seeds and 130 tons
2. Average yield increase.            of wheat seeds distributed.
3. Average household income increase.
Roads/Bridges Component:
1. Number of bridges repaired/        1. 25 bridges (155% of appraisal)      Same as last PSR
reconstructed.
2. Number of kms. of road rehabilitated.    2. 4.5 km (100% of appraisal)
Small Works Component:
1. Number of small rehabilitation projects   1. 106 schools, 40 health care facilities, 25  Same as last PSR
carried out.                          public buildings
2. Number of people benefiting from the  2. at least 100,000 people
rehabilitation works.                 3. at least 2,000 temporary jobs
3. Number of jobs created.
Other Infrastructure Works
1. Number of items completed in rural  1. 11 small bridges rehabilitated; 295 km of Same as last PSR
bridges, irrigation and power         irrigation canals rehabilitated; 7 pumping
stations; 140 km of power lines,
End of project
- 13 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Aprasisal    Actual/atest  IPercentage of
Proect CstS  Cor nbpenti:        L  LL     US$ milklion X :tUS$ ;million
Agriculture Support                                       0.60             1.20             200
Bridges and Roads *                                       5.10             4.90              96
Small Comrnmunity Works                                   2.30             2.90              126
Other Infrastructure Works                                 1.90            2.00              105
Total Baseline Cost                                       9.90            11.00
Physical Contingencies                                   1.10             0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00             0.00
Total Project Costs                11.00            11.00
Total Financing Required                 11.00            11.00
* Does not include USD500,000 Swiss Government Grant TF021299.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procuremnent Method
Expenditure Category          GpICB    B     CB            h  2N..F.                Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00           0.00           3.60          0.00           3.60
(0.00          (0.00)        (2.90)         (0.00)        (2.90)
2. Goods                        0.00           3.10           4.30          0.00           7.40
(0.00)         (3.00)        (4.10)         (0.00)        (7.10)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.00           3.10           7.90           0.00          11.00
(0.00)         (3.00)        (7.00)         (0.00)        (10.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2; Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I                              Nf;;f g: yX g0 0 : e "S00000S StPere"ntage of Appraisal
Com ponent             ApiEta Ae                      AlLateEstimate
I_______________    IDA           Govt       CaF.     InA        Govt.     CoF.    IDA   Govt.  CoF.
Agriculture Support      0.60      0.00                 1.20      0.05              200.0   0.0
Bridges and Roads *      4.50      0.60                4.40       0.50      0.00    97.8   83.3
Small Communitv Works    2.20      0.10                2.60       0.25      0.00    118.2  250.0
Other Infra. Works       1.60      0.30                 1.90      0.10      0.00    118.7  33.3
Unall.(Physical Cont.)   1.00      0.10                0.00       0.00      0.00     0.0    0.0
* Does not include USD500,000 Swiss Govemment Grant TF021299.
- 14 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Because of the emergency nature of the project the PCERP was not subject to costs and benefits analysis
(see paragraphs 4.3 and 4.4)
- 15 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty               Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation    Development
Month/Ycar   Count             Svecialty                         Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
September 1997               1   Economist                              S                S
I   Urban Planner
I   Post-Conflict expert
I   Highway engineers
2    Social sector experts
Appraisal/Negotiation
November 1997                1   Urban Planner                          S                S
1   Post-conflict expert
I   Highway engineers
2   Social Sector scientists
I   Procurement Specialist
Supervision
May 1998                      1   Post-conflict expert                  S                S
August 1998                   1   Post-conflict expert                  S                S
November 1998                 1   Post-conflict expert                  S                S
May 1999                      1   Financial Analyst                     S                S
I   Highway Engineer
November 1999                 1   Financial Analyst                     S                S
I   Transport Engineer
June 2000                     1   Financial Analyst                     S                S
I   Transport Engineer
ICR
no mission
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                   39                           139
Appraisal/Negotiation                        20                            79
Supervision                                  55                           125
ICR                                          15                            40
Total                                       115                           383
- 16 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Oi Macro policies                          0 H  0 SJ 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Sector Policies                         O H  O SUO M  O N  * NA
O Physical                                  O H  * Sb'O M  O N  O NA
f Financial                                 O H  O SU  *M  O N  O NA
El Institutional Development                0 H  0 SJ' O M  0 N  * NA
O Environmental                             O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                  0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OI Gender                            O H O SUO M O N * NA
Ol Other (Please specify)            O H  * SU O  Al O N  O NA
Consolidation of the peace process
Z Private sector development               0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
M Public sector management                  0 H  0 SU 0 M  * N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                  0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  * NA
- 17 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
X Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
F Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
M Overall                                             OHS OS O U OH U
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
f Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
I Government implementation performance               O HS O S  O  U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                   O HS O S  O  U  0 HU
E Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 18 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Republic of Tajikistan: Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project - President's Memorandum and
Technical Annex dated January 8, 1998.
2. Republic of Tajikistan: Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project - Supervision Mission Aide
Memoires and PSRs dated June 11,1998; September 16, 1998; December 8, 1998; June 4, 1999;
December 15, 1999 and June 29, 2000.
3. Republic of Tajikistan - Project Coordination Unit Progress Reports - July 1999 and June 2000.
4. Republic of Tajikistan: Project Coordination Unit: Implementation Completion Report, dated January
2001.
5. UNOPS: Final Report on Project Implementation, dated October 4, 2000.
6. Letter to UTO commander (attached).
- 19 -



Unofficial Translation
Commission
on National Reconciliation
26 Rudaki Ave., Dushanbe, 734025
#319 as of April 24, 1998
Attention to all Commanders of Karategin-Tavildara Valley
As you are aware, the Project Coordination Unit has been reconstructing vitally important
interventions as bridges, schools and hospitals for the last two years in this area. In addition to
the reconstruction of above-mentioned interventions, the PCU has started rehabilitation works for
electricity transmission lines, irrigation interventions and reconstruction of relay transmitters and
etc.
Aiming at prompt execution of works and unhindered delivery of goods to the area, you are
requested to provide assistance and security for the PCU staff and contractors and create good
conditions for their hunanitarian work. Your assistance will be appreciated and by this you will
make your contribution to their work.
Signed by. Abdullo A. Nuri, Head of CNR
- 20 -



OWTHN MWll"nnt                          no IAI^IKN9Afi6OMY
GA TABA(9VXt14
IYMAHuIOHOHH MHHTAKAI4 MPOTErmU BA BOmi4 BAXt
Wa,XcaH 6a
X,amOH ryHa iK iJyO  orox xacT, Mapxa3w xOamzaRMco3r
no#,xo na#  2 conu oxnp nap MmWTSaxOH xyxXwcrow upypmpua
HRWOOTXOP  3 ia36kni Kypy]tXO, MiarMy Ur4)OXOHaO 6a aP pOP
mamyAacr s aap  HH py3xo Aap 6apo6ap  MAomaH Gapuipop
xap,na    Kynpyo   sa   MaTa6y   wx4xomHaxo   KopyOM
6*pw*apOpaYRNmn wu6XaKOan  6apqaXCOnf, HRMOTAO)tO  06RnH
3ammvx W'*zR, 6api *pop coxTan"H  sacon" nalxmi  6aphiomazom
TCRMl3HH 3a NK CRHnaU MHWOOTOH AJ pp O30  HikMyaa.
Sapeo 6ocypsaT Oa 60C4aT Hwpo WYXHM xopFo n0aM MtOU, RH
MaBOA4 3apypR 6siyrHU  MaMOHHaT sa KaMy xocT 6a mUKaa
mmnxo,n AoAa wama.
A3  lymo XOxjiw meUwasa  KH ASp SM3I  '1W4032T N
X4MOfT  Ma5OZ, ThbirH  WuapHTo   Mmc0oKaH iKop 6a xamaH
MacynROH     KOpa  AOIwi Mapya3m xaM0RaHtW3MH noMiaxo Da
XopmaiAOItH T-WaUIOThOH flyarOTqH" OHXO, KH 6apOH TaMOMH
maplwmI     KXcTOH  .  4asonmNl    GawapncoHa    sa
aTaHnapsCroHapO 8H'lOM MeAHXRHn, KyMax ea MycolAaTH xynpo
AapCr anopeCt. Sa iH  NROHTh WYMO H113 nap UwH sOcp xagp CaXM
XOXC. rHpHf,T.
So 3xTnpOM,
PAHCH4 7
KOMHCCHAH OWITH
MunnB JIAa  ArBYJIV10XH HYPfl
- 21 -



-22 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
,-_-
j >
PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT POST-CONFLICT
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
(in Karategin Valley and Tavildara)
DUSHANBE - MARCH, 2001
TAJIKISTAN
- 23 -



POST-CONFLICT EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Background                                                                    2
Characteristics of the Project objectives                                     2
Project Budget                                                                3
Project Management                                                            3
Implementation and Output                                                     4
Summary on the results by components                                          5
A." Bridges and Roads "                                                       5
B. "Small Community Works" (SCW)                                              5
C. "Agriculture Support Sector "                                              5
D. "Other Infrastructure Works" (OIW)                                         6
Project transparency                                                          6
Procurement Management                                                        7
Project Financial Management                                                  7
Beneficiaries' Assessments on the project implementation                      7
Main factors affecting the project                                            7
Key lessons learned                                                           8
Future actions plan                                                           9
Analysis of beneficiaries' assessments on the project implementation          10
ABBREVIATIONS
AKF             -       Aga Khan Foundation
CAS             -       Country Assistance Strategy
DC              -       Direct Contracting
GBAO            -       Gomo-Badakhshan Autonomous Oblast
IDA             -       Intemational Development Association
NCB             -       National Competitive Bidding
NGO             -       Non-Govemmental Organization
PCU             -       Project Coordination Unit
UNDP            -       United Nations Development Program
UTO             -       United Tajik Opposition
SCW             -       Small Community Works
O0W             -       Other Infrastructure Works
MPIM            -       Micro-Project Implementation Managers
PCERP           -       Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project
TADES           -       Tajik Industrial Design Building Union
SSHC            -       State Stock Holding Company
WB              -       World Bank
- 24 -



Back-round
The civil war that erupted in the republic soon after gaining independence became a national tragedy. As a
result, it brought enormous damage to all life spheres cf the population: industrial infrastructure,
agriculture, road and housing industry, education, health care, power, irrigation and telecommunication
systems, power supply, and besides, the war has ruthlessly taken the lives of thousands of people. The most
suffered were the districts of Khatlon Oblast, Karategin Valley and Tavildara. However, Karategin and
Tavildara Valley remained under the control of the Opposition for several years and were virtually cut off
from the rest of the country limiting the Government's opportunities to provide appropriate assistance. And
only after signing the General Peace Agreement between the Government and the United Tajik Opposition
(UTO) on June 27, 1997 there appeared real opportunities to liquidate consequences of armed conflict in
this suffered area.
Karategin Valley and Tavildara district are located in the center of the country (see map), where Darband,
Tavildara, Gharm, Tajikabad and Jirgital districts, as well as Jamoat Saghirdasht of Darvaz district are
included. Due to its geographical location this area is of a strategic importance, because it links southwest
with southeastem part of the country. This mountainous area with difficult geographical and climatic
conditions has a total population of approximately 260,000. Taking into account immediate solution of
complex task of the post-conflict period, the Government requested financial assistance from the World
Bank. According to Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), in September - October of 1997 there were
identified priority tasks of reconstruction and rehabilitation process of war-damaged infrastructure of the
area by Bank and UN Office for Project Services as well as various bodies of local authorities of the
republic. Based on this was proposed Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project (PCERP) for the
districts Karategin valley and Tavildara.
Characteristics of the Project objectives: Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project was
instrumental in the development and strengthening of peace and national accord not only in terms of
physical outputs but also had positive psychological effects on war-tired population. The primary objective
was to provide assistance and create favorable conditions for economic growth through reintegration
of Karategin valley and Tavildara districts, including Saghirdasht Jamoat of Darvaz district of
GBAO** This territory was included in the area of Project implementation by the World Bank agreement in 1999 into common
national system of the country.
To achieve this goal, maximum simplicity and flexibility of the Project structure was ensured for attaining
actual results within 2,5 year period before the Closing Date of IDA Credit under following components:
Component A. "Road and Bridges ": repair and reconstruction of destroyed bridges and completion
of construction Darband temporary by-pass road (4,5 km);
Component B. "Small Community Works" (SCW): repair and reconstruction of schools, health
care facilities and other public facilties, as well as provision with necessary equipment;
Component C. "Agriculture Support Sector" (ASSJ. provision of seeds, fertilizers and fuel &
lubricants and other necessary recourses to the farmers during sowing season;
Component D. "Other Infrastructure Works" (OIW): repair and reconstruction of rural bridges,
irrigation canals and power transmission lines, sub-stations and transformers;
- 25 -



Project Budret
The budget's total of the Post - Conflict Emergency Reconstruction Project including additionally allocated
funds of the Grant by Swiss Government (in 1999) was USD 11.500.000, including (in USD):
-      IDA Credit                                10,000,000
-      Grant of Swiss Government                   500,000
-     Government Contribution of RT               1,000,000
Proiect Management
Project management, supervision and implementation were performed directly by Project Coordination Unit
for Post-Conflict Reconstruction Credit (PCU) created within the Govenmment of the Republic of Tajikistan
as a autonomous, specialized organization that met all requirements of the World Bank. Organizational
structure of PCU corresponded to the project structure and was formed of natidnal specialists, selected
through competition. The activity was financed out of funds of the Government of Japan (PHRD Grant)
and a part of minor expenditures were finances out of funds allocated by the Govenmment of RT.
Project Coordination Unit was responsible for (a) overall management of the project activity, including
coordination with the ministries and other state institutions, local authorities, non-governmental
organizations and intemational donor organizations; (b) procurement of goods, payment of services to be
financed under project; (c) supervision and control over quality of the works carried out and goods
delivered; (d) project accounts management, as well as withdrawal of credit proceeds and transfer of
proceeds from the Special Account; (e) evaluation of performance effectiveness of the contractors and
keeping continuous dialogue with the project beneficiaries, expressing their opinion whether project
addressed their needs or not; and (f) provide assistance to the Government and local authorities in the
process of informing population about the project implementation and its components.
A well-elaborated normative docurnents by the PCU and international consultants that were agreed with the
World Bank, as well as their appropriate usage in the implementation of Project management facilitated
timely planning, implementation and control process of each component.
The following documents served as the basis of the PCU activity:
-             PCU Operational Manual (covers all activities);
-             Forms and order of Direct Contracting under "Bridges and Roads" component;
-             Manual on implementation of works under SCW component, including a full package of
documents on organization of bidding process;
-             Package of request for proposal for suppliers of the goods and contract forms;
-             Accounting Manual;
-             Intemal Control Systems;
-             Main norms and conditions of work at PCU;
Supervision system: in our opinion, the process of project management and the system of organization of
supervision and control within the whole period of implementation are characterized as organized. In the
process of project supervision on the sites were actively involved: (i) community representatives; (ii) local
hukumat representatives; (iii) representatives of maintenance organizations; and control was enhanced by
(iv) districts field inspectors - coordinators through submission to PCU appropriate written reports and all
remarks related to work organization were listed in "Supervision Journal" that were available on each site.
Also, an important role in this process despite security problems played regular field trips of PCU
- 26 -



specialists to the project area. Specialists made a total of 134 field trips that comprise 1012 days (almost
34 man/month).
Implementation And Outputs
In general, the Project has successfully achieved its goals. All key monitoring indicators were carried
out both in terms of quantity and cost
Physical Outputs. A total of 317 destroyed and damaged interventions were reconstructed and rehabilitated
under project, out of them:
*     37 bridges and road structures, out of them 24 bridges of republic importance (length of deck
from 18 to 130 meters) and 11 bridges of local importance, and also two road sections:(i) on 129-133,5
km of Dushanbe-Khorog main road (Darband by-pass road - 4,5 kin); and (ii) on 208-209 km of
Dushanbe-Khorog main road;
*      106 educational facilities (schools, boarding schools, kindergartens, professional and technical
colleges that constitute 56% of total number of destroyed and damaged educational facilities of the area;
*     40 health care facilities (hospitals, policlinics, rural doctor's surgeries and etc.), that constitute
45% of total number of destroyed and damaged health care facilities;
*     25 other public facilities (16 TV relay transmitters, 4 interventions of villages water supply
system - (9.5 km), 3 public baths, public culture center (club) and rural library;
*     42 irrigation structures for irrigation of more than 15,700 hectares of land, out of them 13 main
canals with 178,0 km length, 7 pump stations, 22 small irrigation canals, with 101 km length;
*     67 interventions of power system for electricity supply of 85 villages, (140,23 km of electricity
transmission lines, two high voltage sub-stations, 83).
Providing of more than 5,3 thousand farrners with seeds of elite grades of wheat (133,8 MT) and potato
(2787,3 MT), fertilizers (977,3 MT), fuel and lubricant (299,1 MT) and etc. more than 3,500 hectares of
land were given for private use that was an important factor for the agriculture development and the income
raise of area's rural population.
Summary on the results by components
A. "Bridges and Roads" (actual USD5.36 million equivalent): A total of 26 interventions of road
infrastructure were reconstructed and put into operation (24 bridges and 2 road sections). All repair and
rehabilitation works under this component were carried out according to confirmed norms and standards of
project works that are effective in the republic. Technical and design decisions on all bridges meet the
requirements and conditions of a mountainous area and were elaborated by "Tajikgiprovodkhoz" Design
Institute and approved by the Ministry of Transport and Road Administration (MOTRA) of the Republic
of Tajikistan. Repair and reconstruction works were held in conformity with the World Bank established
order, based on direct contracting method with two subdivisions of MOTRA of the Republic of Tajikistan:
i) "Mostospesstroi" OJSC and ii) "Tajikdorstroi" Trust.
- 27 -



B. Small Community Works Component (actual USD2.84 million equivalent): Under this component, a
total of 112 local contractor organizations were involved in rehabilitation works. Management of the
component on sites was implemented by four Implementation Managers (IM) selected through competition
out of local and intemational organizations (NGO): MPIM No.1 (NGO <<Fidokor>); MPIM No.2
(UNOPS*); MPIM No.3 (NGO <Jriyon)>); MPIM No.4 (NGO <<Ganji Karotegim>**). The work experience
proved that in such projects, if there are factors limiting capacity of intemational organizations,
involvement of non-govenmnental organizations (NGO) is expedient and useful. Implementation of this
component allowed to rehabilitate and reconstruct a total of 171 destroyed and damaged facilities of social
infrastructure including: 106 schools for 35,380 schoolchildren; 40 health facilities and 25 other public
facilities. Minimal needs in school and medical equipment were also addressed by the component:
*     for educationalfacilities: students desks - 3 337 pieces, school blackboards - 335, tables with
chairs for teachers - 305 pieces, 50 sets of tables with chairs (one table and four chairs), stoves - 80 pieces.
and etc.;
*     for health care facilities.: beds - 265 pieces, chest of drawers - 265 pieces, medical shelves - 30
pieces, couches - 80 pieces, tables - 50 pieces., chairs - 105 pieces., diesel generators - 2 pieces, sanitary
cars UAZ -3962 - 6 pieces and other medical equipment.
v     for other infrastructures: a set of TV relay transmitters equipment - 20 items, water tanks - 2
pieces and etc.
Local population (community) made in-kind contribution and non-qualification works. In particular, they
were actively involved in planting of 15,000 of trees.
C. Agriculture Support Program (actual USD1.23 million equivalent): under implementation of this
component, (1998 by Aga Khan Foundation (AKF)*** and in 1999 and 2000 by PCU) a definite progress
in the development of agricultural sector has been achieved and living standards of farmers have been
improved in Karategin Valley and Tavildara. More than 3500 ha of lands were given for 5356 private
farmers; out of them 645 (12%) were ex-combatants and refugees. In general, a total of 32,3 thousand of
rural population (12,4% of total number of population) were provided with work and salary through
PCERP agriculture program;
* However UNOPS due to force majeure circumstances could not execute the work on MP
implementation in Gharm district till June 1999.
** Due to inability of UNOPS execution of works for implementation of micro-projects in Gharm district
was in disruption, therefore, a new IM was establishedfor Gharm District)
***Taking into account that since 1992 the AKF had successfully been working in this field in GBAO
districts and was able and had the opportunity to implement the same program in Karategin valley and
Tavildara districts.)
- 28 -



D. Other Infrastructure Works (OIW) (actual USD1.94 million equivalent): Under this component, there
were reconstructed and put into operation:
Power Sector: 140,23 km of electricity transmission lines of various voltages; 83 transformer substations
with 10/04 kV capacity; and 2 substations with 110/35/10 kV capacity. It allowed improving activity in all
branches of economy and social sphere providing with normal power supply to 85 settlements (45,5
thousand of people).
Irrigation System: 42 projects, out of them: 13 main 22 small canals; 7 pump stations with 15 functioning
aggregates, 5 transformer substations and 2,8 km of electricity transmission lines.
Rural Bridges: 11 small bridges, which helped to resume transport communication for the population of 8
jamoats and 81 villages in Karategin valley and Tavildara with more than 71,5 thousand beneficiaries.
Institutional Obiectives:
The project created favorable opportunities for capacity development of local enterprises. There were 144
contractor organizations involved in reconstruction works most of them being practically inactive, and
another part created these years. As a whole, the Project implementation enabled to create more than
35,000 temporary jobs (where more than 1100 reintegrated ex-combatants were involved in works).
Through reconstruction of the interventions a total of 4138 earlier existed jobs in social sector were
restored. This became an essential basis for the income increase in teachers' and doctors' families.
In general, the Project implementation fostered achievement of thefollowing main objectives:
First: appropriate conditions for improving performance quality of the educational system, health care
and cultural and community facilities that will naturally have positive effects on the raise of educational
level, improvement of population's health and sanitary conditions.
Second: opportunities for the increase of incomes and living standards of the area's war-affected
population by means of timely provision of farmers with required recourses for development of production
and market mechanisms of management by creating normal conditions for transportation and goods
exchange process and creation of additional jobs.
Third: full confidence to the Government in strengthening of peace and national accord that led to
stabilization of political situation in the area;
Project transparency: one of the main important factors of successful project management was a
well-organized informational work in the form of video reports, special programs on Tajik television and
radio also contributed to the above, as well as issuance of special monthly bulletin named "Paiki Obodi"
that provided with detailed and well-organized information about the achievements and difficulties related
to each component. Besides, there were installed information panels on all interventions in Tajik and
English language for the purposes of informing people about the role of the World Bank, Government of
the Republic of Tajikistan and PCU in implementation of rehabilitation works. After completion of each
intervention people organized opening and transfer ceremony where took part local people, representatives
of the Government and local authorities (district Hukumats, Jamoats and Mahalla) and this was
broadcasted by TV and radio.
- 29 -



Procurement Management
All works and goods under PCERP were procured strictly in accordance with the Development Credit
Agreement (30370 TJ), PHRD Grant Agreement (TF 023473) and Swiss Grant Agreement (TF021299)
and other documents of WB/IDA and standard forms used by IDA, according to confirmed schedules of
procurement and implementation of project components and within the limits of maximal amounts set for
procurement methods. Besides, openness and transparency of tender processes and a good system of
tracking and control proved to be a challenge and guarantee for successful implementation of contracts. As
a result, despite the existing difficulties related to the post-conflict period in political and economic life all
works, goods and service contracts were timely completed that served as an important factor for the Project
implementation as a whole.
Proiect Financial Management
Financial management status and accounting and reporting system of PCU on project implementation is
evaluated to be effective and appropriate to the signed Development Credit Agreement and confirmed
accounting standards according to two audits conducted for 1998 and 1999 and 2000 by auditing company
"PriceWaterHouse Coopers" N. V. In the process of project implementation all operations on the
replenishment of PCU special accounts and disbursement of funds, accounting and reporting the
information under components were conducted smoothly and there were practically no delays in processing
of accounting documents that could effect Project development.
Beneficiaries Assessment of the Proiect Implementation
Aiming to evaluate the Project implementation results, study of public opinion and implementation of
concrete works in future a survey was conducted in Project implementation area. A working group was
created to fulfill these tasks that elaborated questionnaire in cooperation with PCU specialists that was later
agreed with the World Bank. The final version of questionnaire covered 56 questions. To conduct the
survey, there were initiative groups created in each district. Most of the population's strata were covered b
the survey. All answer are reflected without any changes (Analysis of beneficiaries assessment is brought in
Annex No. 1).
Main factors affecting the Proiect
Positive Factors: In our opinion, main factors that contributed to successful implementation of the Project
were:
*     direct and active involvement of Bank in early stage of elaboration of reconstruction strategy and
effective evaluation of the project's needs and creation of a flexible mechanism of project implementation
(regular and intensive implementation of supervision and control to evaluate outputs and taking immediate
measures for resolving the issues arisen in the process of Project implementation, through supervision
missions to Tajikistan, arrangement of seminars - meetings (on finance, procurement and etc.) daily e-mail
correspondence);
*     effective organization of the Project management and active use of available experience of the
international organizations for project implementation (UNOPS, AKF, GAA and etc.) as well as
participation and good will of the Government in the development of implementation process, creation of a
safe cooperation mechanism with the interested administrative bodies and international organizations;
- 30 -



*      transparency of each component's implementation process obtained by publicity and openness of
the PCU activity;
*      efficient delivery of Technical Assistance through PHRD Grant provided by the Government of
Japan;
Negative factors: that negatively affected the quality of Project implementation were:
*      political instability and criminality in Karategin valley and Tavildara district in early stages and in
the process of Project implementation;
*      difficult terrain, remoteness and bad weather conditions;
*      lack of experience and knowledge of the Bank procedures in procurement arrangements in early
stage of Project implementation;
*      lack of qualified contractors and construction staff, as most of specialists were forced to leave the
country for Russia in search for a job.
Sustainabilitv Mechanism
In the interventions reconstructed and rehabilitated is an important indicator of achieving effectiveness of
the Project investment that is obtained through:
-   creation of responsibility - guarantee mechanism through transfer of rehabilitated interventions to the
ministries and departments as well as local authorities' maintenance;
-   apply unconventional approaches on local level: for instance, district Hukumats allot land (1-2
hectares) for each school and health care facility in order to give teachers, doctors and other workers
the opportunity to receive income. Besides, some of rehabilitated schools and heath care facilities were
transformed into paying system (from 200 to 500 Rubles) for payment of teachers salary and there
were also "Parents Committees" and "Mahalla Councils" established in schools and mahallas for the
maintenance of the reconstructed facility and financial assistance
Key Lessons Learned
The Project helped to develop local capacity and gain work experience from which the following key
lessons can be learned:
*      Repair and reconstruction works of social infrastructure facilities should be implemented
addressing the needs in equipment, inventory, fuel and other study materials in complex, i.e. to satisfy
maximal needs of rehabilitated intervention;
*      local personnel and local non-governmental organizations should be given more opportunities and
more entrusted as the security situation can restrict the capabilities of the international organizations.
I      It is vitally important to coordinate and organize partnership of concerned organizations in
post-conflict area. As lack of coordination in implementation of the assignments and lack of correlation
among the projects implemented by various intemational or governmental organizations can affect the
quality and addressing the needs of local people.
- 31 -



Future Actions Plan
As a whole, the Project objective indicators are characterized in number of social, agricultural and road
infrastructure interventions reconstructed and in quantity of the seeds and other material resources provided
to farmers. They are reflected in the benefits obtained for peace strengthening and improvement of people's
lives that led to final reintegration of the region. However, these achievements will seem little, if further
investments and project sustainability is not provided. Therefore, today it is necessary to consolidate
concerned bodies and improve the results achieved both at governmental and local level. The following
tasks need to be undertaken in this regard:
*      Ensure interventions sustainability through:
i)     transfer of rehabilitated interventions to state institutions (subdivisions of MOTRA, Ministry of
Education, Health Care, Melioration and Water Management and etc.) and local hukumats in order to
increase responsibility in the arrangement of maintenance and increase the guarantee of effective
maintenance;
ii)    appropriate training of beneficiaries at a local level and informing the general rules of proper use of
interventions through possible collaboration with non-governmental organizations and donors.
*      It is necessary to increase investment for addressing the needs of rehabilitated interventions through
organization of partnership with other non-governmental organizations working in Tajikistan. Due to
financial constraints and emergency character of rehabilitation works educational and health care facilities
were not provided with sufficient number of textbooks, visual aids, medicines and fuel.
*      It is necessarv to ensure safety and rational use of the seed fund in order to support dehkan farms
of the area through:
i)     AKF should continue close cooperation with district hukumats and local associations of farmers
for further utilization of the seed fund from 1998 contract with AKF under direct control of the head of the
district hukumats;
ii)    continue management of the seed fund of 1999 and 2000 activity as separate program of PCU for
spring planting season 2001 under direct control of the Government and in cooperation with local Hukumats
and appropriate district units of farners association (non-governmental organization). Later it will be
transferred to local hukumats.
In general, multi-branch character of the Post-Conflict Reconstruction Project as well as the results
achieved in Project implementation confirm that the PCU is an effective structure with a good technical and
human resource capacity and opportunity to implement similar projects in future.
Implementation of the Project became an important condition for increasing population's trust in the
Government in establishment of safe peace and accord.
Shukurjon Zuhurov
PCU Director/ National Coordinator
- 32 -



ANALYSIS OF BENEFICIARIES' ASSESMENTS
1. Demoeraphic peculiarities of survev
There were questioned a total of 400 respondents. Their classification according to their occupation is reflected in
the following table:
Occupation                                        Quantity                    Percentage
Teachers                                             55                         13,75%
Doctors                                              40                           10%
Medical personnel                                    21                           5,25
Students                                             65                          16,25
Farmers                                              68                            17
Clergy                                                13                          3,25
Ex-combatants                                        30                           7,5
State institution employees                          30                           7,5
Entrepreneurs                                        30                           7,5
Housewives                                            18                          4,5
Others (unemployed and etc.)                         30                          7,5
Total                400                          100
Out of them 317 (79,25%) are men and 83 (20,75%) are women. Overwhelming majority of men with regards to
women is the result of traditional structure of Tajik family, where man is the head of a family as usual.
On the levels of education, the respondents are divided into the following categori s:
Education                            Total                     Percentage
Preliminary                                         21                           5,25
Secondary                                           127                         31,75
Secondary incomplete                                60                            15
Secondary technical                                 70                           17,5
High                                                121                         30,25
Post-graduate                                        1                           0,25
Other                                                                  _       __
Total                                              400                          100
2. Economic status of the respondents
We have collected an information about monthly expenditures of the respondents' families, which is brought in the
following table:
Expenditures (in                                No. of families
TR)
USDI=TR2000
Darband   Tavildara     Gharm   Tajikabad     Jirgital  Sagirdasht    Total
<30,000                 10         13         10          5           1          4         43
31,000-60,000           40         9          13          15          8          9         94
61,000-100,000          12         18         38         40          47         21        176
101,000-150,000                   11          10         10           8          6         45
>150,000                 -         l l5                   4           4          9         33
Total                  62          62         76         74          68         49        391
- 33 -



3. Beneficiaries awareness of the Project
a) General knowledge: The study results confirm that most of the people in the districts are aware of the
interventions that were reconstructed under project. To the question <What kind of works have been done in
your district after war finished? 98 % of questioned responded positively. The answers did not only
contain confirmation of the interventions' reconstruction but also the number of the reconstructed bridges,
schools and hospitals were told by the respondents. It is important to note that the beneficiaries even know
the name of the organizations that reconstructed interventions in their territory. For instance, in Gharn
district, to the question <<Do you know the name of organization that reconstructed your school?> 41
respondents called PCU and 23 UNOPS.
For determining the intervention's sustainability the respondents were asked the question <<Do these
interventions provide service to the population at the moment?>> 98% of people replied positively. This fact
proves the project effectiveness and its closeness to the needs of population.
b) Health Care facilities: Most of the respondents assess the quality of the reconstructed health care
facilities as "good" (232) and 68 inhabitants as "satisfactory". No one assessed the works quality
negatively. Community members' participation in the reconstruction works is one of the conditions to
provide sustainability for the reconstructed interventions. A total of 83 inhabitants out of respondents and
their family members participated in the reconstruction works of health care facilities. The survey results
show that most of the people get to heath care facilities on foot.
c) Educational facilities: To the question How do you assess the quality of the rehabilitated
interventions?>> 202 respondents replied <<good, 73 satisfactory>>,  4 "bad".
A total of 137 respondents confirmed their own or family member's participation in the school
reconstruction works.
To the question What is the main problem the schools have in your district>> the answers are reflected in
the table below:
Districts    Lack of  Cold-   Lack of  Lack of  Lack of  Lack of  Lack of  Distance
books/   ness   teachers  electri-c  children  footwear  scbool
exercise                       ity     clothes            furniture
books
Tavildara        50       4         8         -        40        25         -
Saghidasht       44       8         17        6        34        36         -         2
Tajikabad         -       69        5         25       29        25        12         -
Darband          20       10        4         -         10       16         -
Jirgital         35       10        -         -         10       20         -
Gharm            58       71        25        63        15       17         5         1
Total   207      172        59        94       138       139        17        3
It is clear from the table that lack of books and accessories is in the first place. On the one hand it can be
explained by family's poverty and on the other hand by lack of organized sale of books and accessories.
Rich families that mainly do not have any problem with obtaining them also mentioned lack of books and
accessories. (Sometimes, total number of beneficiaries' responses does not agree with total number of
beneficiaries due to lack of information on a district or several responses of a beneficiary on several
questions of one table.) The problem of schools heating is on the second place. Unfortunately this issue
has not been resolved by competent institutions yet. According to results of survey, lack of children
clothes and footwear also is a serious problem. Probably, it is due to families' low income. However,
-34 -



provision of schools with furniture-was put on the last place, in spite of the fact that the situation in the
schools of the area is critical in this regard. It seems that the respondents do not pay special attention to this
problem and the reason is their own unawareness of the schools' internal life.
d) Roads and Bridges: Out of 400 respondents only 2 (0,5%) think that the bridge located in their territory
had been inappropriately chosen and only 3 respondents (0,75%) are not satisfied with the quality of
reconstructed bridge. So, based on the results of survey it can be said that the majority of area's inhabitants
approve the results of roads and bridges' reconstruction envisioned by the project.
e) Power Supply Interventions: The survey results confirm that the inhabitants of Tavildara district and
Jamoat Sagirdasht mainly suffered from the lack of electricity where some villages were left without
electricity for more than five years. The answers to the question about benefits gained from the supply of
electricity can be classified as follows:
Districts                Light               Radio and TV             Use of
refrigerator
Darband       _                                                          _
Tavildara                          34                      34
Ghann                              78                      52                   39
Tajikabad                          54                      29                    6
Jirgital
Sagirdasht                         30                      28
Total           196                    144                   45
In spite of the lack of information on two districts, we may confirm that for people, the use of electricity as
a source of light is of a great importance that can be used for other purposes as well. We did not include a
line for the answer about the use of electricity as a source of heat, as most of the people may hide the fact
of the use of electricity as a source of heat.
For determining the level of electricity usage as a source of heat the respondents were asked ((What do you
use for heating room and cooking?) The following answers were heard to this question:
Districts               Wood                  Coal               Electricity
Darband 
Tavildara                          62                                         62
Gharn                              69                   14                     7
Tajikabad                          48                   18                    34
Jirgital
Sagirdasht                         35          __32
Total         214                  32                    135
The results show that the first place as a source of heat is occupied by wood, the second by electricity and
the third by coal. It should be noted that competent government bodies should worry about cutting
wood in the mountains and its use as the main source of heat, as wood destruction may create
unpredictable environmental problems in whole Central Asia. The survey shows that after rehabilitation of
power supply interventions the use of wood has rapidly decreased. To the question "Do you think that the
use of wood has decreased after reconstruction of electricity transmission lines, or not?" 157 respondents
replied positively and only 10 negatively. The respondents say that power supply interventions had been
reconstructed by PCU - 133; UNOPS - 15; TADES (Barki Tojik) - 20.
- 35 -



d) Irrigation interventions: Most of the respondents approve selected irrigation interventions for
reconstruction. To the question "Was it correct to rehabilitate irrigation interventions instead of other
ones'?" 171 respondents replied positively and 36 ones negatively.
To the question "Will your villagers repair irrigation interventions in case if they are damaged?" the
respondents replied as follows:
Districts                           Yes                           No
Darband                                          61
Tavildara                                        60                            2
Gharm                                            77                             1
Tajikabad                                        71                            3
Jirgital                                         75                 _
Sagirdasht                                                          _       __
Total                344                            6
As you can see a total of 344 respondents think that the villagers will take part in repair of irrigation
interventions if they are damaged. Once again this proves appropriateness of the selected interventions for
rehabilitation and that the project has met the needs of people in the area. The survey results also confirm
that the majority of people do not pay for the services of irrigation interventions. On the one hand, it is
because people still are not accustomed to pay and on the other hand new forms of economic relations have
not been fully introduced yet.
e) Agriculture support: The agriculture survey demonstrates rather noticeable facts.
For determining the forms of land using, the respondents were asked, "What sort of land do you use?" to
which the respondents replied as follows:
Districts     Kitchen garden      President      Dehkan farm |   Rent           Other
Darband                62                9                5              43
Tavildara              62                6                21             28           1
Gharm                  72                4                26              5
Tajikabad              63                 1               23             26
Jirgital               75                37               20       1_     5
Sagirdasht             49                 1               8              36
Total        383                58              103             153          1
As the figures show, the leading place among the land using forms takes kitchen garden. Despite on-going
land reforms the level of dehkan farns land use is still lower than rental land use. It is noteworthy that most
of the respondents think the extension of private lands area to be an essential factor for potato yield
increase. To the question "What should be done to increase potato production?" the respondents replied as
follows:
Districts             To extend area of private      Rehabilitate kolkhoz and
lands                         sovkhoz
Darband                                   62
Tavildara                                  62               _
Gharm                                     64                              14
- 36 -



Tajikabad                               53                            21
Jirgital                                75
Sagirdasht                              43                             6
Total             359                            41
The figures show that out of four hundred respondents only 41 (10,25%) think it necessary to reestablish
collective farms (kolkhoz and sovkhoz) for increasing potato production.
According to respondents' words, another essential factor that promoted the increase of potato production
compared to previous years is the receiving of seeds from governmental and international organizations. A
total of 301 respondents think in this way.
There are many problems left pending in spite of dynamic increase of potato production in the area. Despite
availability of large water recourses, the most critical problem is lack of water for irrigating of fields. 169
respondents have difficulties due to lack of water, 86 face with lack of seeds and 61 suffer from the lack of
mineral fertilizers.
4. Resume
The beneficiaries' responses confirmn that in general, people are satisfied with the results of the project
implementation. However, there are many problems to be resolved that are related to the strategy of the
country's development as a whole. It is both lack of school and medical equipment, lack of production
capacity and jobs, slow reforms in the agriculture sector and etc.
Working Group:    Oimahmadov S. Akobirov D. Hikmatulloev N. Khojaev V., Khudoidodo
- 37 -



April 25, 2001 Dushanbe
Mr. Kiyoshi Kodera
Country Director
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
Washington DC
Dear Mr. Kodera,
Attached please find Implementation Completion Report of the Post-Conflict Emergency Reconstruction
Project.
The Government of the Republic of Tajikistan would like to express sincere gratitude to the Bank
management and staff for the support and comprehensive assistance delivered in the successful and timely
implementation of the Project that had a significant and positive effect on stabilization of economic and
social life in Karategin (Rasht) valley and Tavildara of Tajikistan.
Regards,
The Prime Minister                               A.G. Akilov
- 38 -



