Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21851
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 32.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT
(US$41.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
HN/COMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
April 10, 2001
Human and Social Development Group
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 15, 2001)
Currency Unit = Lempiras (L)
15.130 Lempiras = USS1.00
US$1.30 = XDR 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONTYMS
ADELs                       Local Education Development Association
(Asociaciones de Desarrollo Educativo Local)
AECOs                              Parent School Associations
(Asociaciones Educativas Comunitarias)
AIF                                IDA- International Development Association
(Asociaci6n Internacional de Fomento)
APSO                               Agency for Personal Service Overseas
CCPREB                             Community Based Preschool Services
CEPENF                             Original Non-Formal/Community-Based Preschool Centers
(Centros de Educacion Preescolar No Formal)
CCIE                               Community-Based Pre-Primary Experience Program
(Centros Comunitarios de Educaci6n Inicial)
DCA                                Development Credit Agreement
ECCE                               Early Childhood Care Education
EIB                                Intercultural and Bilingual Education Program
(Programa de Educaci6n Interculturaly Bilingiie)
FHIS                               Honduras Social Investment Fund
(Fondo Hondurefio de Inversi6n Social)
FONAC                              National Convergence Forum
(Foro Nacional de Convergencia)
GOH                                Government of Honduras
(Gobierno de Hondutras)
GPAC                               Global Procurement Plan
IEC                                Campaign of Informnation, Education and Communication
(Campahias de Informaci6n, Educaci6n y Comunicaci6n)
lNCAE                              Central American Management Institute
(Instituto Centroarnericano de Administraci6n y Economia)
IRR                                Internal Rate of Return
LIL                                Learning and IrLnovation Loan
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director.    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:    Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Joel Reyes



(Proyectos Educativos de Centro)
PFC                              Life Long Teacher Training Program
(Programa de Formaci6n Continua de Docen,es)
PRAF                              Supply-side School Grant Program For Poor Families
(Programa de Asistencia Familiar)
PROHECO                          Honduras Community Based Education Program
(Proyecto Hondureiio de Educaci6n Comunitaria)
PROMEB                           Honduras Basic Education Project
(Proyecto de Educaci6n Basica en Honduras)
PRONEAH                          National Education Program for Ethnic Communities
(Programa Nacional Educativo para Comunidades Etnicas)
RRA                               Rapid Rural Appraisal
SE                                Secretariat of Education
(Secretaria de Educaci6n)
UAF                               Financial Administrative Unit
UMCE                              External Evaluation Unit of the Quality of Education
(Unidad de Medici6n de la Calidad Educativa)
UNDP                             United Nations Development Program
UTEN                             Education Transformation Technical Unit
(Unidad Tkenica de Transformaci6n de la Educaci6n Nacional)
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:   Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Joel Reyes






HONDURAS
HN/COMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Govemrnment strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       12
3. Benefits and target population                                                      12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           20
2. Financial                                                                          22
3. Technical                                                                          23
4. Institutional                                                                      23
5. Environmental                                                                      28
6. Social                                                                             29
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 32
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     32
2. Critical risks                                                                     33
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     34



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             34
2. Other                                                                                34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          35
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     44
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          57
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                              59
Annex 5: Financial Summary and Fiscal Impact Analysis                                     68
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        75
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                       86
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                     87
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   88
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             90
Annex 11: Social Assessment and Indigenous Development Plan                               92
Annex 12: Evaluation, Monitoring and Information Systems                                  98
Annex 13: Institutional Capacity Assessment                                               103
MAP(S)



HONDURAS
HN/COMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHE
Date: March 12, 2001                              Team Leader: Joel E. Reyes
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo   Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Project ID: P007397                               Sector(s): EP - Primary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X1 Credit    [] Grant      [1 Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR 32.3 million equivalent
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        6.30           0.00           6.30
IDA                                                            34.08            7.42         41.50
Total:                                                         40.38            7.42         47.80
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Address: Ministry of Education, Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Contact Person: Cristobal Rodriguez, Director General de la Unidad de Planeamiento y Evaluaci6n de Gesti6n
Tel: 504-222-0700/220-1230/222-8586/9901277(Cellular phone)             Fax: 504-220-1230
Email: rodriguezcristobal(hotmail.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIU$$M):
FY         2001       2002        2003      2004       2005       2006
Annual    0.20        6.50       13.60     14.50      10.00       3.00
Cumulative    0.20        6.70      20.30      34.80     44.80      47.80
Project implementation period: June 2001- June 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 06/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
XS VAD FW- Rv U, 2X



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Community Based Education Project is to improve the quality of preschool and lower
basic education (grades 1-6) in targeted rural areas in Honduras, including the improvement of the quality
of intercultural and bilingual education in indigenous communities.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
*   Increased enrollment rates in rural preschool and lower basic education by 5 and 8 percentage points,
respectively.
* Improved internal efficiency indicators in rural schools: (i) increased early entry and promotion; and
(ii) reduced repetition and drop out rates in rural schools (baseline data 1999).
*   Improved performance in standardized test scores in Spanish and Mathematics for 3rd and 6th grade
students from mainly rural multigrade schools (baseline data 1999).
v   Improved  student evaluation results of social achievements and self-esteem  (non-cognitive
development).
* Improved rural school teachers' productivity measured by attendance and days of work (baseline data
1999).
* Availability and relevance of education learning materials for rural schools.
*   Changes in perceptions, attitude and behavior of key school-based actors: principals, teachers,
students, parents and the community.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19893 HO          Date of latest CAS discussion: IDA/R99-182
(1 2/14/99)-IFC/R99/(1 9/01/0 1)
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy targets poverty reduction as its primary goal, focusing on three
development themes identified by the Government: (i) reducing poverty and enhancing social development
to strengthen human capital and social safety nets; (ii) reviving and accelerating growth to ensure a swift
economic recovery and shift the economy into a higher growth path; and (iii) sustainability through
ensuring that the Government and society's efforts are supported by macroeconomic stability, debt
sustainability, state modernization and decentralization and improved governance. The CAS builds on
positive Government initiatives, such as deepening of the decentralization process, improved dynamics
between the Government and civil society, and a sharper focus on the govemance agenda.
The proposed Project will directly support the first and third of the CAS development themes:
First, this Project is designed to target poverty reduction and social development through basic education
opportunities, especially in the most isolated and dispersed rural communities. The Project will expand an
existing community participation strategy for involvement of parents in rural schools, called PROHECO
- 2 -



800 schools in poor and dispersed rural communities, where parental committees partner with the
Government to manage the provision of school services. Through PROHECO, the Project will channel
funds to the most needed and poverty afflicted communities of Honduras, guaranteeing them education
services, human capital development and inclusion into the overall development efforts of the country.
In addition to expanding PROHECO, the Project will make important new investments in (i) improving
pedagogical models (mainly participatory, student centered and multigrade methods); (ii) adapting the
PROHECO model for intercultural and bilingual communities; (iii) expanding lessons learned in parental
involvement and school development to traditional rural schools in the country, and (iv) institutionalizing
community participation promotion and training through the local offices of the Secretariat of Education
(Departmental education offices and School Districts).
Second, with regard to sustainability, the project will deepen education decentralization strategies through
the creation and strengthening of community-level education associations, which will receive legal status to
manage public funds earmarked for school improvement. The project will also support strengthening
decentralized education offices of the Secretariat of Education (SE), (Departmental education offices and
School Districts) to promote, support and monitor community involvement in rural schools. The project
places great emphasis on community-based and local education offices' processes and procedures to
improve education administration, efficiency and transparency.
Furthermore, this operation will directly support the Government's poverty reduction strategy, as outlined
in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) presented to the Board in July 2000. Since that
time, the Govemment has made good progress towards completion of the full PRSP. The key objective of
the Govemment's strategy is the reduction of extremely high levels of poverty, which is measured both in
terms of low income levels and lack of access to a set of basic human needs, including primary education.
Consistent with the International Development Goals, the Govemment is considering the inclusion of
education quality and coverage improvement (e.g., providing universal enrollment in primary education) as
one of the key long-run targets in the final PRSP. The expansion and strengthening of PROHECO, as
supported under the proposed project, are congruent with the Government's poverty reduction objective by
ensuring better coverage and higher quality of education in the neediest areas, as well as reduced
inequalities between rural and urban communities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues:
Trends of public expenditure on education. Although Honduras is a small country with a population of 6
million and a GDP per capita of $730, it has devoted a substantial and growing portion of public resources
to education. In 1999, total public expenditure on education amounted to 5.2 percent of GDP, or 21.4
percent of total government expenditure. This is a significant amount for the Central America region (in
1997, public education expenditures in other Central American countries, as percentage of GDP were:
Nicaragua: 3.6%; Panama: 3.6%; Guatemala: 1.3%; El Salvador: 4.7%). Between 1990 and 1999,
education spending increased faster (55 percent) than either the GDP (27 percent) or government
expenditure (32 percent). Over this period, between 45 and 50 percent of the total education expenditure
was for primary education, about 14 to 18 percent was for secondary education and 25 to 30 percent for
higher education. The large share of expenditure on primary education contributed to the high enrollment
rates at this level.
-3 -



Gains in Primary Education Enrollment and Years of Schooling. Honduras has made considerable
progress in primary education during the past thirty years. Since 1970, enrollment in primary education
has tripled and, at 111 percent, gross primary enrollment is slightly higher than the LAC average. Net
primary education enrollment across geographical areas is relatively high (95 percent in urban areas
(Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula) and 85 percent in rural areas). Years of schooling have increased,
reaching an average of 5.1 years of primary school in 1999 (up from 4.7 in 1989), and pre-primary
education coverage has risen sharply over the last decade, from 17 percent to almost 40 percent (1999).
The expansion of coverage has mainly benefited the poor.
Notwithstanding these accomplishments, a number of issues remain:
Unequal Education Outcomes. Quality and efficiency outcomes remain poor and unequitable. Only 70
percent of the cohort aged 15 in 1999 had passed 6th grade. Those failing were, overwhelmingly, the poor.
In 1999, in the bottom quintile, only 50 percent of the cohort aged 15 had graduated from primary,
compared with 87 percent in the top quintile. These figures indicate that most poor children go to school,
but that the system fails them and half of them drop out without completing primary education. The World
Bank's Public Expenditure Review (undertaken during 2000 and currently being finalized) concluded that
one cause of failure to complete primary education is late entry, due in part to access difficulties in remote
areas. This leads to children being overage and dropping out when they enter adolescence, before
completing 6th grade.
Average primary years completed                  % with primary ed. completed
I                                                QINTILE  OINTILE
Cohort     1      2      3      4      5      Total  1      2      3      4      5       Total
|aged  15  in.                                                            I l  ,____      ____l
1999       4.6    4.8   5.2    5.5    5.6    5..1   52      63      71    81     87      70
1994       4.4    4.5    4.8    5.3    5.7    5.0    49     65     66    83       88     71
1989       3.7    4.2    4.6    5.3   5.5    4.7    40      50     63      77    86      62
In addition, 7 percent of children in the primary age range are still out of school. The estimated number of 7
to 1 1 year olds out of school in March 1999 was 56,101. This was caused partially by drop-outs following
grade failure, and by continuing access problems in remote areas of the country. Although repetition and
drop out rates have improved in the last ten years, they are still high, especially in the rural areas (in 1998
primary education repetition and drop out rates reached 8 percent).
- 4 -



Table 1 - Estimated number of children out of school, March 1999
Age           7      8     9    10    11  Average
Quintile             % matriculated
I (poorest)    84    89    90   91    91       89
2             89    93    94    94    93       93
3             86    94    94    93    88       91
4             92    99    97    98    94       96
5 (richest)   98    97    97    98    98       98
Total         90    94    94    95    93       93
Equivalent
Number of children out of school   Total  sections
1 (poorest)   5,419  3,726 3.387 3.048  3,048   18,628   621
2            3,726  2.371 2,032 2,032  2,371   12,531   418
3           4,742  2,032 2.032 2.371  4,064   15,241   508
4            2,425  303   910   606   1,819   6.064   202
5 (richest)    606   910   910   606   606    3,638   121
Total       16,918 9,341 9,270 8,664 11,909  56,101   1,870
Urban                                         11,220    374
Rural                                        44.881   1.496
Notes. Based on official population projections for 1999 and Match 1999 EPMPM data.
Quality. Poor quality education and the resulting low academic achievement of students are two of the
most serious problems in the Honduran education system. The country's Education Quality External
Evaluation Unit (UMCE) conducted a general Math and Spanish assessment of 17,638 third and sixth
graders (percent of right answers within specific competencies) in a random sample of 568 schools in the
country (7 percent of total number of schools). In reading comprehension, the average score for 3rd
graders was 50 percent in urban schools and 38 percent in rural schools. In grammar, the average was
only 37 percent in urban schools and 31 percent in rural schools. For sixth graders, the average Spanish
scores in the same competencies, were 57 percent, 49 percent, 44 percent, and 35 percent, respectively.
In Math, third graders' average scores in questions related to the general property of numbers were 35
percent in urban areas and 31 percent in rural areas; for problems related to numerical calculations, the
average scores were 34 percent and 31 percent, respectively. For sixth graders, the average math scores, in
the same competencies, were 40 percent, 35 percent, 33 percent, and 29 percent, respectively. Although,
there is still no national standardized testing for all schools, the results of the sample are alarming. The
quality problem in Honduras was further confirmed when it received the lowest ranking of II countries
evaluated in the recent UNESCO/OREALC Latin American and Caribbean Achievement Assessment.
Problems in education quality are due in part to an irrelevant curriculum, lack of a formative learning
assessment system, shortages of pertinent instructional materials, and poor quality of instruction.
Access to Pre-Primary Education. While the percentage of students enrolled in primary education is quite
high in Honduras, preschool gross enrollment is only 38.9 percent of eligible children, as compared to 44
percent in neighboring El Salvador and 84 percent in Jamaica (World Bank, 2000). Community and
volunteer based strategies have been supported by UNICEF and others, including the Bank, but further
investments to increase coverage and quality of preschool are still needed. Since performance in the first
three grades of primary school is linked to participation in pre-primary education, the Government seeks to
expand preschool education, both through traditional and non-traditional (mainly community and NGO
supported) strategies, as a key quality intervention.
- 5 -



Provision of Education in Rural Areas. Educational opportunities are limited in rural areas (where it has
traditionally been difficult to open schools, attract qualified teachers, and retain students) and for
disadvantaged groups such as ethnic minorities. Lack of access to education in remote areas contributes to
late entry and to not completing primary education. Rural children, mostly from families in the lowest
income quintiles, tend to enroll later in school: only 84 percent of 7 year olds in the lowest quintile started
school in 1999 (the national average is 88 percent). Late entry is followed by a high level of failure,
especially in the lower grades. The failure rate for first grade students is 18.5 percent. Finally, children
tend to drop out of school at the age of 13, regardless of which grade they attend or if they have completed
primary school. Therefore, once a child gets behind (either by late entry, first grade failure, or repetition),
there is a high probability that he/she will not complete primary education. Together, these three factors
contribute to 30 percent of all children and 48 percent of the poorest children failing to graduate primary
school.
The urban-rural differentials in learning (as observed above in the results of the standardized tests by urban
and rural sectors) also call for targeted strategies for student learning, considering the particular needs of
rural schools. A feature of rural schools is that a considerable proportion of them are single-teacher
schools. Thus, providing training and technical assistance to teachers in multi-grade classrooms is crucial.
Finally, education expenditures are distributed unevenly between urban and rural areas. Student/teacher
ratios were 29:1 for urban areas and 42:1 in rural areas in 1996. Moreover, approximately 98 percent of
the education budget finances personnel expenses and only 1.3 percent are targeted to investments in
maintenance, equipment, etc.
Institutional efficiency. The overly centralized institutional structure and the low capacity of the SE to
manage the education system has reduced the ability of schools to perform efficiently and offer quality
education services. Departmental education offices and school Districts are at risk of becoming local units
that demand rather than provide services to schools. In turn, schools do not have the means or incentives to
improve. Schools should be involved in identifying their needs, in self-improvement activities and in
evaluating the services they receive.
Effects of Hurricane Mitch. Mitch damaged an estimated 17 percent of the country's 9,548 primary
schools and left more than 170,000 students (10 percent of the basic education student population) without
schools. Undamaged schools had to be used as temporary shelters for those who had lost their homes,
resulting in further interruptions in service provision. Total damage to the education sector was estimated
at $28.1 million. Repair and replacement costs were estimated to be $31.2 million. The international
community, including the World Bank, made resources available irnmediately after the crisis to rebuild
schools and to recover basic educational materials. However, Hurricane Mitch exposed the vulnerability
of the education system to natural catastrophes and the effects upon poor communities.
Government Strategy:
Education Sector Priority. The Government assigns top priority to its education reform, viewing it both
as a key component of its longer-termn poverty reduction strategy and as a critical part of its vision of
developing a dynamic and productive economy able to compete in an increasingly globalized context. In
general, the increased national focus on education, the successful experiences with community
participation, and the demands for institutional accountability create a positive environment for educational
reforns.
National Education Reform Consensus. To define a national strategy to deal with the country's
education sector issues, the Government called on a national dialogue to build consensus on educational
- 6 -



reforms. In 1998, the Government created the Foro Nacional de Convergencia (FONAC), with
representation from the private sector, NGOs, government agencies, teacher unions, parents, international
organizations and other stakeholders. FONAC led a year-long, national consultation process on national
education needs and reforms. As a result, FONAC, with support from the SE, published a document
(November 2000) that sets goals and priority actions which follow those identified in the Poverty Reduction
Strategy for Honduras, and are supported by this project.
Community Participation.  An additional pillar of the Government strategy has been community
participation. In March of 1999, the SE launched a community-based education program to attract
teachers to isolated rural areas and improve their performance. The program, called PROHECO
(Honduran Community Education Program) formed parental committees (Community Education
Associations - AECOs) to open schools, hire and pay teachers, and support school improvements and
maintenance. The program objective for the first year of operation was the creation of 500 schools to
provide educational opportunities for approximately 25,000 rural students. In its second year, PROHECO
enrollment further increased (from 22, 350 students in 1999 to 39,070 in 2000), as well as the number of
teachers working in remote, rural areas (from 649 teachers in 1999 to 1070 in 2000). 5,700 parents,
organized in AECOs, have been trained and thus far close to 800 schools are functioning.
A study by UNDP/CEPAL (Durston, September 1999) shows that the immediate impacts of PROHECO
include the availability of teachers and educational materials in isolated rural communities which did not
have schools in the past. The report also states that the PROHECO model can generate: (i) better
attendance of both students and teachers; (ii) parental support in rural schools; and (iii) a more efficient and
participatory system for education management, including accountability for public and community
resources earmarked for school improvement. Now, the community-based education management model
needs to be complemented with improvements in pedagogical processes, including multigrade
methodologies, curriculum application pertinent to rural and intercultural and bilingual communities, and
formative learning assessment and feedback to students, teachers and parents.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project will focus on the following education sector issues:
Quality and Efficiency Improvements in Preschool and Lower Primary Education. The project will
concentrate its support on the preschool and lower basic education level. Criteria used for this strategic
choice included: (i) the country's need to improve the quality of learning, retention and promotion of
children at the primary level; (ii) the IDA's previous support to primary education in Honduras, its
knowledge in early childhood care and education, and the experience with community strategies in basic
education in the region, and (iii) coordination with donors, which will support other aspects of the
education reforms, especially with the IDB which is supporting higher basic education (grades 7-9) and
developing a program for improvements in secondary education (grades 10-1 1-12).
Pedagogical Pertinence and Quality in Rural Preschool and Lower Basic Education (grades 1-6),
Including Schools in Intercultural and Bilingual Communities. Pedagogical pertinence and quality will
be achieved by: (a) multigrade teaching methods for rural schools with dispersed populations; (b) support
for intercultural and bilingual education in communities from the nine ethnic groups in Honduras; (c)
teacher training programs targeted to those working in rural, intercultural and bilingual communities; (d)
provision of updated instructional materials; and (e) on-going evaluations of teaching and learning in
schools.
-7-



Equitable Provision of Education Services and Universalization of Lower Basic (Primary) Education
Access in Rural Areas. The project will expand PROHECO as a proven strategy to reach the groups
traditionally excluded by the primary education coverage programs in Honduras (which have been
successful in reaching only 85 percent of the primary school age population in rural areas). To reach the
additional 15 percent of rural children without coverage, the country needs to combine traditional education
inputs (school construction, teacher availability and training, and educational materials) with social
interventions to guarantee the inclusion of the poorest and most isolated communities, participation and
self-determination of rural and indigenous families, and agile strategies to provide and sustain education
services in these communities.
Promotion and Support of a School-Based Management System for Rural Schools. Although
PROHECO successfully showed the benefits of parental involvement in hard-to-reach rural schools, the
rest of traditional rural schools in the country have not had a school-based management model. Thus, to
guarantee community support in traditional schools, the project will establish "school governments" with
the participation of parents, students, teachers and principals in more than 3,000 traditional, multigrade,
rural schools in Honduras. This "school government" in a traditional schools is called ADEL (Asociacion
de Desarrollo Educativo Local). The ADEL, with support of other education stakeholders in the
community, will assess school needs, prioritize improvements, and prepare school development plans.
These school plans (called in Honduras Proyectos Educativos de Centro, PEC) will receive Project
financing and will contribute to improving the quality of education in rural schools.
Strengthening Decentralization of Education Services at the Department and School District Levels.
As the education institutions closest to the school, Departmental education offices and school Districts must
improve the services they offer, such as: (i) the required pedagogical assistance; (ii) community
participation promotion; and (iii) school improvement support in rural areas. Therefore, the Govemment is
advancing its decentralization strategies in the education sector.  Departments and districts will be
responsible for channeling and monitoring education resources to schools, for "pedagogical in-classroom"
assistance to teachers, for supporting education quality supervision and evaluation, and for the promotion
and support of community participation and school-based management strategies.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would implement various strategies to achieve the following four objectives:
*   developing educational strategies and materials suited for multigrade rural schools, in line with the
national curriculum and supporting any necessary intercultural and bilingual adaptations;
*   attracting and retaining teachers in rural schools through community support in school
management and professional development incentives for rural teachers;
*   strengthening and expanding, in traditional rural schools, successful experiences of community and
school-based management; and
*   guaranteeing the quality support of local education offices (school districts and departmental
education offices) for the three above-mentioned objectives (multigrade pedagogical processes;
attracting and retaining rural teachers; and community participation and school-based
management).
-8 -



The strategies for achieving these objectives are divided in the following components : (i) Local School
Application of National Curriculum; (ii) Community-Based Provision of Preschool and Basic Education
Services (PROHECO Program); (iii) School-Based Management for Rural Communities; and (iv)
Strengthening of Institutional Support for Community Participation and School-Based Management
Programs.
I. Local Application of National Curriculum
This component will support the implementation of the national curriculum in rural multigrade,
intercultural and bilingual schools through the following sub-components and strategies. (The national
curriculum is being developed in the country with support of other donors and cooperation agencies.)
A.   Validation of the Nadonal Curriculum for Preschool and Lower Basic Education (grade I to
6) by Rural Teachers
This sub-component will support rural teachers' feedback regarding: (i) national curriculum reforms,
programs, methodologies, and tools for its implementation in rural, intercultural and bilingual schools; and
(ii) pedagogical strategies to address learning disabilities. In addition, this sub-component will support the
coordination of a similar teachers and education stakeholders' validation process in poor urban areas not
addressed by this project.
B.   Effective Application of Curriculum and Appropriate Educational Materials for Preschool and
Primary Rural Schools
This sub-component will (i) support the integration and implementation of various rural multigrade
teaching and preschool modalities in the country; (ii) provide the appropriate methodologies and didactic
mnaterials to implement multigrade pedagogical strategies in rural schools; and (iii) provide the appropriate
methodologies and didactic materials to implement intercultural and bilingual education strategies in rural
indigenous and Garifuna conmmunities representing all nine ethnic groups in the country.
C.   Student Learning Assessment and Education Quality Evaluation Strategies
This sub-component will (i) support design and implementation of a validation learning assessment; (ii)
develop and distribute student assessment guides for teachers in primary and preschool levels; (iii)
disseminate the student learning results (by school, subjects and grade levels) to districts and communities;
(iv) finance external bi-annual standardized assessments for 3rd and 6th graders to evaluate the quality of
education nationwide; and (v) evaluate innovative community-based education programs such as
PROHECO, Community Based Preschool Services (CCPREB) and Intercultural and Bilingual Education
(EIB).
D.   In-service Teacher Development and Training Programs
This sub-component will support (i) in-service university training programs for rural teachers, district
staff and teacher trainers. The training will concentrate on multigrade methodologies, learning evaluation,
school-based management and/or intercultural and bilingual education; (ii) quality enhancement programs
for community-based volunteers supporting teaching in preschool and intercultural and bilingual schools;
and (iii) in-classroom training and follow-up for rural teachers.
-9-



II.   Community-Based Provision of Preschool and Basic Education Services
This component will expand PROHECO, a commnunity-based program for provision of basic education
services (preschool and grades 1-6) to rural and remote communities and to intercultural bilingual
populations. PROHECO also provides incentive mechanisms to attract and retain teachers in these
communities.
A.   Strengthening and Expansion of the Honduras Community Education Program (PROHECO)
This sub-component will support (i) organizing community education councils (AECOs) in 600 remote
rural communities; (ii) creating new PROHECO schools in those 600 rural communities, and (iii)
attracting and retaining at least 720 new basic education teachers (grades 1-6) and 600 preschool
volunteers in these new PROHECO schools. Teacher retention would be supported through various
community-based incentives, such as contractual relations between parental conmmittees and teachers,
support of school by parents, and social support of teachers' basic needs by the community.
B.   Creation of Intercultural and Bilingual Schools using the PROHECO Model for Community
Participation and Parental Involvement
This sub-component will adapt PROHECO strategies to the education needs of the nine ethnic
communities of Honduras. It will support (i) creating new AECOs and PROHECO schools in at least 200
intercultural and bilingual communities; and (ii) attracting and retaining 200 EIB-trained lower basic
education teachers, 200 EIB volunteers, and 200 preschool volunteers. Volunteers will be selected from
the local community (guaranteeing cultural and linguistic relevance). Financial transfers, to be managed
by parental committees, will support paying teachers, volunteers, and purchasing non-durable school
materials (chalk, paper, pencils, etc.). The project will ensure that the curricular, pedagogical, learning
assessment and teacher training interventions pertinent for intercultural and bilingual education (detailed in
Component I, above) reach and impact these newly opened schools.
III.   School-Based Management for Rural Communities
This component aims at creating an effective school organization strategy in rural areas through the
involvement of principals, teachers, parents and students to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their
schools. It adapts the school council model of PROHECO to the needs and existing organizational
structures of traditional rural schools (most of them also multigrade with one, two or three teachers
attending all 6 primary grades). School councils, in both PROHECO and traditional rural schools, will
prepare school-based improvement projects (called Proyectos Educativos de Centro, PEC), and will
manage financial transfers to support implementation of the PEC.
A.   Development of a School-Based Planning and Community Participation System in the Rural
Sector
This subcomponent will (i) support the organization of school councils (to be called ADEL --
Asociaciones de Desarrollo Educativo Local) in rural communities for traditional multigrade schools;
and (ii) train school council members to improve school management capacity, education planning, and
administration of financial transfers for school improvement activities.
B.   School-Based Design and Implementation of the Education Improvement Projects (Proyectos
Educativos de Centro - PEC)
This subcomponent will (i) support planning of school improvement activities by AECOs (school councils
of PROHECO schools) and ADELs (school councils of traditional schools) through the development of
- 10-



school projects (Proyectos Educativos de Centro - PEC); (ii) transfer financial resources to AECOs and
ADELs to carry out their PECs; and (iii) provide training on school improvement to teachers and parents
through teachers' self-help groups (Centros de Aprendizaje Docente) and workshops for parents (Escuela
para Padres).
IV.  Strengthening of Institutional Support for Community Participation and School-Based
Management Programs
This component will strengthen the SE (Secretaria de Educacion) including its decentralized offices
(Departmental Education Offices and School Districts) to guarantee effective support for community
participation and school-based management strategies for the rural education sector in Honduras.
A. Central Support of the Community Participation and School Based Management System in the
Rural Sector
This sub-component will: (i) strengthen the central units of the SE which support school organization and
community participation in the rural sector; and (ii) support the Unidad Tecnica de Transformacion de la
Educaci6n Nacional (UTEN), which will coordinate new education investment programs and manage the
national Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign for education reforms.
B. Strengthening the Capacity of Departmental Education Offices to Plan Educational Needs and
to Monitor Community-Based Education Programs
This sub-component will: (i) support the design and implementation of an information system, including
education statistics, human resources, physical resources, financial information and school maps for the
programs financed by the project (PROHECO, CCPREB, and EIB); (ii) finance the training, acquisition
and installation of equipment to improve the administrative efficiency of depairtmnental offices in
monitoring and evaluating results of education programs; and (iii) establish a financial administrative
system to monitor, legalize and audit financial transfers for school improvements channeled directly to
schools, communities and education districts.
C.    Strengthening Capacity of Education Districts to Support Curricular Applications and
Community and School-Based Management
This sub-component will: (i) complete the basic infrastructure needs of the eighty six school districts that
have the largest percentage of rural, intercultural and bilingual schools; (ii) provide equipment (computers,
furniture and vehicles) to support these districts' new role in the promotion, organization, training and
technical assistance activities for community participation and school-based management; and (iii)
strengthen the school district professional teams by training them as "agents of change" to support
multigrade teaching, intercultural and bilingual education, community involvement and school-based
management.
Indicatie              Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
.________ _________ ________ .____.____ . (US$M)  Total  (US$M)   financing
1. Local Application of the National    Primary         9.71      20.3       8.91      21.5
Curriculum (Preschool and Basic    Education
Education- grades 1 to 6)
- 11 -



2. Community-Based Provision of    Primary            14.49       30.3     11.13      26.8
Preschool and Basic Education      Education
Services
3. School-Based Management for Rural Community         9.96      20.8       8.96      21.6
Communities                        Action Program
4. Strengthening of Institutional  Institutional      11.23       23.5     10.09      24.3
Support for Community Participation    Development
and School-Based Management
Programs
5. Contingencies                   Unidentified        2.41        5.0      2.41       5.8
Total Project Costs                  47.80     100.0      41.50     100.0
Total Financing Required                    47.80     100.0     41.50      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project focuses on two key aspects of policy and institutional reforms in the Honduran
education sector: (i) community participation and school-based management; and (ii) decentralization of
education services to departments and school districts. The country's education reforms emphasize the
democratization of decision making within the education sector, especially at the community and school
levels.
Recent changes in the education sector's legal and administrative framework have allowed transfers of
public funds to community-based organizations. In the case of PROHECO, law (Decreto) No. 266-98 of
October 30, 1998, gave school councils with parental membership (Asociaciones Educativas
Comunitarias, AECO) legal status to manage public funds for school operations. The project will support
the implementation of this key policy, and it will help expand an adapted school council model (
Asociaciones de Desarrollo Educativo Local, ADEL) to the rest of traditional rural schools (schools in
which services are not provided by the community, but by the traditional public education system).
A prior IDA-financed education project supported the creation of departmental education offices and school
districts in Honduras.  School districts, in particular, have a pivotal role in supporting quality
improvements in schools, yet district teams have not been strengthened to provide the pedagogical and
participatory support needed for the new school-based management models. Thus, the project will ensure
that departmental offices, school districts and communities have the capacity and necessary resources to
support their schools in improving classroom leaming and student attendance and promotion.
3. Benefits and target population:
(a)    Social and economic benefits:
* An increase in rural preschool coverage from 38.8 percent in 2000 to 43 percent in 2005, or 15,000
new students attending (or 5 percent of the existing 5 year old rural population). This would be
possible through opening 800 new preschool sections with an average of 18 students each.
* An increase in rural primary education (grades 1-6) net coverage from 85 percent in 2000 to 93 percent
in 2005, or 28,800 new students attending (or approximately 8 percent of the existing 6-11 year old
rural population). This would be possible through opening 800 new multigrade schools with an
average of 46 students each.
- 12-



* Modem school management and teaching and learning methodologies to improve social interaction
among students, between adults and children, and between the community and the school.
* Intercultural and bilingual education focused not only on appropriate methodologies for ethnic groups,
but also on nationwide knowledge of the cultural richness of Honduras.
* In addition to the socio-pedagogic returns resulting from increased equity in education opportunities
and positive social interactions, the expected economic benefits of the project can be quantified in terms
of increased earning potential based on each additional year of schooling - workers can earn an
additional US$45 annually by each year of basic education schooling.
(b)    Institutional benefits:
*   Increased support from school and community actors in the delivery of education services.
* Increased accountability of public institutions to ultimate users (schools and communities).
* Improved services provided by SE units located closer to the school: department education offices and
school districts.
*   A coordinated approach across levels (community, districts and central agencies) to implement and
monitor internationally supported projects.
m   An appropriate number of highly professional and pedagogical personnel in departmental education
offices and school districts.
* Appropriate administrative tools to support community participation reforms in the education sector.
(c)    Poverty reduction and target population: The project aims to improve the quality and pertinence
of educational services in the following traditionally excluded groups:
* Poor and marginalized rural communities
* Preschool students (ages 5-6)
* Nine ethnic groups
* Overage and late-entry students
By expanding access to basic educational services at the preschool and primary education levels (grades
1-6), this project will benefit approximately 45,000 new school-aged children in targeted rural areas and
contribute to the universalization of basic education in Honduras.
Around 4000 rural communities, including 800 intercultural and bilingual groups, will be organized to
support and monitor school performance, benefiting over 300,000 children in rural communities.
Although the interventions of this project are targeted to poverty afflicted and excluded groups in rural,
intercultural and bilingual communities, the proposed education and participatory reforms will eventually
result in improvements to all schools in the country, thereby reaching all school-going children.
- 13-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Secretariat of Education (SE) would have overall responsibility for project implementation. A small
and highly specialized team of financial and procurement managers will be responsible for leading IDA and
government processes for using IDA credit funds. This administrative team will be located within the
Technical Unit for National Education Transformation of the SE (UTEN - Unidad Tecnica de
Tranformaci6n de la Educaci6n Nacional), guaranteeing direct access to the SE leadership, its general
administrative offices and technical departments.
The project will require technical assistance from individual long-term consultants and from national and
intemational organizations. This TA will be provided by NGOs, higher education institutions (public and
private universities) and firms. The performance of technical and administrative staff hired by the project
will be monitored to guarantee the contracting of the best services possible in the country or the region.
The project will be implemented over a period of five years, beginning in 2001 and ending in 2006.
At the school level, school and community education councils (ADEL and AECO) will execute a large part
of project resources both to operate schools and to implement school improvement subprojects (Proyectos
Educativos de Centro - PEC). AECOs and ADELs will sign an agreement with the SE, which will detail
their responsibilities in school management and the implementation of school improvement activities to be
detailed in their school subprojects (PECs). Upon approval by the SE, the Project will transfer a portion of
credit proceeds to the AECO and ADEL for implementation of their school-based management and
improvement activities. Under PROHECO, Honduras has already successfully tested transferring financial
resources to school councils (AECOs); a financial audit conducted by an international audit firm in 2000
found highly transparent and efficient use of funds by the AECOs. The project will also strengthen school
districts (local supervisory offices of the SE) organization and train and provide technical assistance to
ADELs and AECOs.
Executing agencies:
The SE will coordinate and monitor the implementation of the different components at the national and
departmental levels. An Administrative and Financial Unit (UAF) to be established within UTEN will
manage all administrative requirements of the IDA credit. The SE has already carried out a competitive
process to select a consultant to provide administrative and technical assistance and training in project
management to the UAF.
In the decentralized components of the project (school improvement subprojects and school financial
transfers), school councils (ADELs and AECOs) will be responsible for their own planning, project
execution, financial and procurement management. Appropriate financial and output accountability
systems will monitor decentralized processes.
The National Pedagogical University (Universidad Pedagogica Nacional Francisco Morazan- UPNFM)
of Honduras will implement the extemal evaluations of education quality and the in-service training
program proposed within the project (the SE and the UPNFM will sign a co-executing agency agreement to
this effect). The co-executing role of the UPNFM follows from (i) its built-in capacity for external
evaluation of education, standardized testing, and in-service teacher training; and (ii) the Govemment
efforts of the past decade to guarantee that the UPNFM provides efficient and high quality external
education evaluations and teacher training within the Honduran education system.
- 14 -



The performance of all executing entities will be closely monitored for good project implementation and to
ensure achievement of the project development objectives.
Project coordinator:
The Technical Unit for National Education Transformation (UTEN) will be responsible for the monitoring
and evaluation of the various projects supporting the overall country plan for education reforms. There
will be one Project Coordinator within the UTEN to directly oversee the Community Based Education
Project. The UTEN, as part of the SE Education Reform Team (which also includes the directors of the
SE's technical departments), will monitor project processes, physical progress of activities, outcomes of
components and subcomponents, and achievement of project objectives on a regular basis. The details of
the monitoring and evaluation system are detailed in Annex 12.
Project financial management and auditing. IDA's Regional Financial Management Unit (LCOAA)
conducted a project financial management (FM) assessment, which concluded that the project did not have
a system satisfying IDA's financial management requirements. An action plan was consequently agreed
upon, as explained in Annex 6. Substantial completion of the FM action plan will be a condition of credit
effectiveness. Shortly after effectiveness, an independent audit firm acceptable to IDA will be engaged to
carry out the yearly audit, in accordance with terms of reference approved by IDA. The extemal auditors
will make quarterly visits.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Targeted support to pedagogical needs of rural schools versus broad curriculum reforms
*   Originally, the project was to be involved in all aspects of broad curriculum reforms, including
definition of standards, content of subject areas, broad guidelines for lesson plans, etc. However, the
Government decided national curriculum reforms were better supported by institutions with local
presence already supporting, in coordination, the development of the National Curriculum (such as
USAID, GTZ and the Spanish Cooperation Agency). Thus, the proposed project will concentrate on
specific curriculum application in rural areas. This will include multigrade teaching strategies,
contextualization of leaming (i.e., making use of rural contexts to explain and exemplify curriculum
concepts and subject content), pertinent educational materials and teacher training.
Targeted support to local education offices and community-based education management versus
broad institutional development efforts
*   The project concept proposed investments in the general structural and managerial reforms of the SE.
However, institutional assessments recommended that this project focus on the local institutional level
to incorporate lessons learned from local and community education management, within the scope of
broader institutional reforms supported by the Government's Public Sector Modemization Program.
The project supports decentralized and community participation models (already being implemented in
the Honduran education sector) by providing resources for decision making and self-improvement to
the most isolated rural schools and for intercultural and bilingual communities.
Community-based preschool education versus traditional Preschool education services
* The project considered opening formal preschool grades in traditional Basic Education schools.
However, the fiscal sustainability and economic impact analysis showed that expanding preschool
- 15 -



services through formal programs is financially precarious and unsustainable Also, experience shows
that Honduras can expand preschool coverage effectively and efficiently through community models.
Thus, the project will continue to support community-based preschool programs by opening preschool
sections with community volunteers in existing and new PROHECO schools. The project will
guarantee training in finance and materials in order to guarantee the quality of service provided by
community-based preschool teaching volunteers.
Market approach to publishing and editing textbooks versus development and protection of in-house
capacity of Secretariat of Education
*   In previous projects, there was an attempt to develop the capacity in the SE to design and edit
educational materials. However, this strategy was not efficient and the quality of educational materials
produced was low. Within this project, educational materials, such as textbooks, teachers' guides and
student workbooks, will be selected from those available in the regional or worldwide market. Even for
some locally focused materials (i.e.social studies, history and culture) the development of textbooks
and materials would be contracted from experienced and internationally competitive publishers and
editing companies, based on locally provided specifications.
Decentralized provision of consumable school materials versus centrally procured
3 Originally, basic teaching and learning materials, such as paper, pencils, notebooks, didactic materials,
etc, were procured centrally. However, through examining previous lessons learned, it is evident that
centrally provided consumable classroom materials reached schools late and absorbed additional
financial resources due to prolonged warehousing and inefficient distribution. The strategic choice
made by this project is to decentralize the purchasing of these materials to the school level, and to
support teachers in developing in-house basic didactic materials, especially at the preschool level.
External evaluation of education quality versus internal self-assessments by the Secretariat of
Education
- The SE was considering not having an external quality evaluation unit, and instead proposed the
development of a self-evaluation function within its structure. However, technical studies during
project preparation confirm the importance of having an independent agency to evaluate the quality
outcomes of the education system. Thus, the project will support external, bi-annual standardized
testing at the end of the first two basic education levels (3rd and 6th grade). In turn, the learning
evaluation functions assigned to the SE will concentrate on (i) formative student learning evaluations;
(ii) strengthening teachers' capacity to assess their students' learning; and (iii) feedback to schools and
teachers to improve assessed areas of learning difficulty in children.
Expansion of school-based management initiatives in the rural sector versus targeted focus only in
PROHECO schools
*   Originally, the project's participation strategies focused only on consolidating PROHECO. However,
the social and institutional assessments confirm the readiness of traditional rural schools and
communities to embrace a community participation and school-based management strategy, as well.
Thus, the project will pilot the creation of school councils in traditional schools (to be called ADELs,
Asociaciones de Desarollo Educativo Local) and the adaptation of the PROHECO model in
intercultural and bilingual communities through allowing parental associations in the nine ethnic
communities of Honduras to manage their schools and select intercultural and bilingual teachers and
community volunteers.
- 16 -



Training and education of parents involved in school-based management activities versus no direct
investment in this area
*   The project will support parental participation in rural schools by providing parents with access to
relevant training and adult education. Originally, this intervention was not considered, given the basic
education focus of the project. However, since parents' involvement is PROHECO's bedrock of the
community participation strategy, providing them with training and education was considered a key
factor for the quality of parental involvement and support of preschool and basic education for their
children.
Multi-level support of improved efficiency and transparency of educational inputs versus central
support only
*   Stakeholder consultations during project preparation proposed a multi-level approach for project
monitoring, rather than focusing on training and technical assistance for the SE. Thus, to support the
country's objective of improved governance and efficient use of public resources, the project will
develop the capacity of the SE, the departmental education offices, school districts and communities to
store, deliver, and monitor the use and maintenance of physical goods and inputs to schools.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Increased collaboration has developed between the World Bank, the IDB and key bilateral donors to define
the curricular needs of basic and secondary education, the benefits of community participation models,
strategies for rural education access, and management improvements throughout the entire education
system. The following table presents sectoral issues in Honduras being addressed by other projects and
international agencies:
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Poor quality of basic education services Basic Education Project    S             S
Deficient budget and financial    PSM/SAC and PSMITAC               S             S
management systems
Weak public sector institutions and    PSM/SAC and PSMITAC          S             S
excessive role of the state
Poor delivery of health services  Health Reform Project             S             S
Poor performance of infrastructure    Transport Sector Rehab.       S             S
Other development agencies
Expansion of Secondary Education    IDB
(grades 7-9 and 10-12) and School
Based Management in Secondary
Schools
National curriculum guidelines and  Spanish Cooperation and
standards                         USAID
Improvement of teaching and learning  JICA
of Mathematics and Science in schools
- 17-



Curriculum development in          GTZ
Mathematics and Spanish for first
graders in rural schools
Improvement of informal Early      UNICEF
Childhood Care and Education
Improved management capacity,     IDB
planning and transparency of SE
Improved Education Planning,       GTZ, USAID, UNDP and
Information Systems and Statistical    Swedish Development Agency
Data of SE
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Existing IDA-Supported Education Project in Honduras (Project Completion Date: December 30,
2000)
The lessons learned and reflected are drawn from experiences in similar Bank-supported projects
successfully implemented in Central and Latin America as well as from previous education projects in
Honduras.
The mid-term evaluation of the previous IDA-supported education project in Honduras, PROMEB, pointed
out a number of issues that have been taken into account in the proposed new project. First, in rural areas
and among disadvantaged groups the quality of education services continues to be poor and requires further
support. PROMEB invested significantly in pedagogical inputs, such as educational materials, teacher
training and student evaluations. Nevertheless, management was overcentralized and lacked decision
making at the school level.
Second, PROMEB attempted to resolve all institutional problems at all levels. Institutional development
investments were broad and fragmented. The SE resisted transferring education management functions to
its departmental offices and school districts. Based on this experience, the new project will support key
changes through management interventions at levels closer to schools, especially departrnental education
offices and school districts. In turn, the project will support the SE's focus on normative and evaluation
functions, rather than direct management and control of all educational inputs.
Positive lessons from PROMEB were also considered. The evaluation of the community based strategy
(PROHECO), initially supported by PROMEB, indicates that this is a successful strategy to increase
education access in rural areas. Initial evidence of PROHECO's benefits include availability of education
services in very isolated rural communities which never had a school, attracting and retaining teachers in
isolated rural areas which traditionally were at a disadvantage in attracting teachers, increased attendance
of both students and teachers, and increased community participation and parental involvement in schools.
The new project is doubling the aggregated total of PROHECO schools in the country today (800 schools
by the end of the year 2000), with a coverage of approximate 30,000 students, at the preschool and lower
basic education (grades 1-6).
- 18 -



Finally, other successful programs by PROMEB, such as the Unit for the External Evaluation of Education
Quality (UMCE), the Continuing Teacher Training Program (PFC), and the support for Community-Based
Preschool Programs (CEPENF)--are key inputs for the comprehensive education reforms promoted in
Honduras today. The proposed Community Based Education Project will support the sustainability and
integration of these programs, and guarantee that all education inputs reach the school as a comprehensive
package, and that parents and communities have a voice in determining their education needs and in
supporting their schools.
Other Projects in The Central American Region
Central American countries are increasingly sharing lessons learned in education.  The community
participation model through which parents manage schools, pay teachers and supervise student and teacher
attendance was originated in El Salvador (EDUCO Program). The Salvadorian experience has provided a
framework from which community participation programs in other countries may be developed (i.e.
Guatemala and Honduras). Although each model is different based on local needs, in general, lessons and
risks can be identified based on shared experiences. Common lessons include the importance of gaining the
support of teacher unions, which are traditionally opposed to education management changes, as well as
institutionalizing community participation within the legal and financial framework of the public education
system.
Bank-financed education projects in Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Costa Rica are also dealing
with similar issues regarding teacher training, student evaluations and rural education, particularly
multigrade teaching. These project experiences were considered during project preparation through
exchange of lessons learned and technical support across Central American countries.
Lessons Learned in Latin America and Elsewhere
Education reforms, community participation, quality improvements, and early childhood care and
education, among others, are issues being addressed worldwide.  In Latin America, examples of
school-based management interventions in Brazil, Uruguay and Colombia have been studied. These
programs show evidence of the benefits of parental and community participation in school improvement
activities. Some risks, such as raising expectations, extremely bureaucratic procedures for school-based
management, approval of school improvement plans and financial disbursements to schools, and resistance
by traditional education management actors to shifting power to schools have also been assessed. This
project takes into consideration these lessons learned, and is prepared to face and overcome the potential
risks.
Also, early childhood care and education (ECCE) programs in Mexico, Trinidad and Tobago and Brazil
were identified as possible examples of informal, community-based ECCE strategies. Lessons were
learned in rural education and multigrade methods from Escuela Nueva in Colombia, NEU in Guatemala
and Escola Nova in Brazil. Finally, a teacher training programs in Chile offered important lessons from the
merger between academic training, applied leaming and teacher-based classroom research.
Coordination Among Donors and Projects Supporting the Education Sector
Perhaps one of the most important lessons learned is the need to foster a sense of teamwork between the
Govemment, IDA and other development agencies in Honduras. This is an essential ingredient to the
success of any comprehensive reform. Thus, the project's design, preparation and implementation are part
of a coordinated effort of donor agencies and projects supporting different needs of the education sector
- 19 -



reforms in Honduras. IDA has participated in the Goverment-led "Round Table of Donors in Education"
(MERECE -- Mesa Redonda de Cooperantes en Educaci6n), which provides an important platform to
coordinate international assistance strategies and to liaise directly with other international agencies
supporting complementary aspects to the project. Project preparation and its technical and feasibility
studies have also incorporated recommendations from other Bank-supported studies currently under
preparation, such as the Poverty Assessment Report, the Public Expenditure Review, the Infrastructure
Assessment findings, and other pertinent studies relevant to this operation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government is fully committed to the reform of the education system, as indicated by the following:
*   The establishment of broad national consultations on education reform, led by the Foro Nacional de
Convergencia (FONAC).
*   The formation of a committee to support coordination of international assistance in the education sector
(MERECE).
*   Official recognition of a proposal for the transformation of the education system endorsed by
institutions from the public, private and NGO sectors.
*   Broad participation in national project identification workshops, conducted by the World Bank, to
develop a more concrete proposal for education investments based on broad consensus.
* Continued support for community participation strategies at all levels of government, as evidenced by
the successful launching of PROHECO, the expansion of PRAF (Programa de Asistencia Familiar -
another community-based program that supports the education needs of poor families through family
grants), and steps for the creation of school governments and community participation strategies in
traditional schools (Asociaciones de Desarrollo Educativo Local --ADELs ).
*   Government support for decentralization in the education sector, and integrating efforts across sectors
(public modernization, financial reforns, and social development).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*   Direct IDA support in the launching of PROHECO and in exchanging experiences in community
participation across Central American countries.
*   Bank experience in preschool and basic education development in the region.
*   Bank experience in rural education modalities, including multigrade teaching, active leaming and
student participation.
* IDA experience in Honduras, both before and after Hurricane Mitch, testing different ways to increase
the impact of IDA supported projects, the efficiency of government institutions and the transparency of
administrative procedures.
*   On-going IDA support to the SE to strengthen the services provided by its departmental and district
offices and to facilitate coordination with other social sector loans from IDA and other international
agencies/lenders.
*   Successful experiences in community-based monitoring and audits of project inputs to schools.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$8.2 million; ERR = 11 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Cost Benefit Analysis (of School-Based Management Investments Only). The economic evaluation of
- 20 -



the project looked at the costs and benefits of the planned school-based interventions: creation of school
councils (AECOs and ADELs); hiring of preschool volunteers and; implementation of school-managed
improvement subprojects.
The Cost-Benefit analysis only applies to the school-based management interventions, which are considered
the most important innovation in this project to improve education access and efficiency.  The
corresponding NPV and IRR results of this economic analysis do not cover project investments at the
national level: . (i) strengthening curriculum application through multigrade strategies and contextualization
of leaming and instructional materials for rural schools; (ii) strengthening departmental and district support
for community-based education; and (iii) developing methodologies for intercultural and bilingual education
(EIB). These national interventions are validated through cost-effectiveness analysis and studies that show
their positve impact on improving the quality of education. Investments at the national level within the
project amount to a total of $US32 million (or 64 percent of total project costs).
Cost-benefit analysis of the community and school-based interventions was carried out to establish the rate
of return in four scenarios:
1. Where a PROHECO school is built enabling children, who would otherwise be out of school, to get
primary education.
2. Where a PROHECO school replaces a failing traditional school.
3. Support for establishment of a preschool class through the community-based volunteer model.
4. Support for establishment of school-based management councils (ADELs) in traditional schools.
Benefits: In each of the scenarios, the benefit stream is estimated as the impact of the project's intervention
on the future income stream of the cohort.
Costs:
*   In the first scenario, the increase in future income resulting from improved educational attainment is
compared to the costs of providing education, including both providing the school building and the
revenue costs, and the eamings foregone during schooling.
*   In the second scenario, the outcome depends on the difference between the cost of providing schooling
under PROHECO and that of a traditional school, coupled with the differences in educational outcomes
between the two and their impact on incomes.
   In the third scenario, the critical consideration is the balance between the cost of the preschool year and
the impact of preschool education on primary education outcomes, which in turn feeds into changes in
income.
*   In the final scenario, the question is whether the cost of grants to ADELs for school improvements are
justified by the benefits in the form of improved performance and outcomes and the resulting income.
Summary of conclusions and recommendations.
The study of the economic return to the Honduras Community Based Primary Education Project considered
the project's "fit" with the main sector strategic issues. The study reviewed the dimensions of the proposed
interventions, and modeled the conditions under which the proposed investments would have acceptable
rates of retum.
Sector strategy and dimensions of the project: The project addresses important sector issues in primary
coverage, efficiency and effectiveness and is, in general, well dimensioned. However, closer consideration is
needed regarding the establishment of 800 new PROHECOs in rural communities, since primary education
is nearly universal. At the same time, these 800 new schools would not only provide new access, but also
- 21 -



may replace 'failed traditional schools in remote rural areas. Natural increase in demand through
population growth (see annex 5) has also been considered.
Economic rates of return: In the absence of historical data for their impact on primary education
efficiency and flow rates, it is not possible to make firm ex-ante predictions of the IRR of the project's
planned interventions. However, it is possible to consider whether the improvements in perfonnance needed
to generate an acceptable IRR seem reasonable. In general, all the interventions show possibilities of
acceptable rates of return.
1. Where no school presently exists, the rate of return on establishing a PROHECO school is 11 percent,
even if it is not more efficient than traditional primary schools in Honduras.
2. Where a PROHECO school replaces a traditional one, the economic return is positive under all
scenarios because PROHECO's unit costs are slightly lower than those of a traditional school. If the
PROHECO school achieves a high improvement in flow rates, the IRR is 19 percent.
3. The IRR for support to preschool classes depends on the degree of improvement in flow rates at the
first grade level that results from this intervention. With a high improvement, there is an IRR of 10
percent but if flow rates do not improve the IRR is below the acceptable range.
4. The IRR for support to ADELs depends on the improvement in flow rates across the board in primary
grades. With high improvements, ADELs report an IRR of 10.3 percent but if flow rates do not
improve the IRR is below the acceptable range.
The project's school-based interventions have a positive Net Present Value (NPV) for all scenarios
discounting at 5 percent and 10 percent, but not at 12 percent. Therefore, the overall rate of return is
around 11 percent In the most probable scenario of a moderate improvement in the flow rate, and the
benefits discounted at 10 percent annually, the school-based investments have NPV of over 123 million
Lempiras or US$8.2 million.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The examination of the fiscal impact of the project is based on a review of public expenditure for education
from 1990 to 1999 and projection of GDP growth, govemment expenditure, education expenditure, and
school-age population from 2000 to 2015. The analysis used three scenarios which differed in the GDP
growth rates.
While all three scenarios accepted a GDP growth rate of 5 percent between 2000 and 2001, the high
growth scenario assumed the continuation of 5 percent growth between 2002 and 2015, the medium growth
scenario assumed 3.5 percent, and the low growth scenario used 2 percent. All three assumed government
expenditure as a percentage of GDP to be 24 percent between 2000 and 2002, and 22.5 percent from 2003
through 2015. The three scenarios differed in the share of SE budget as a percentage of total government
budget. The budget for pre-primary, primary and secondary education was derived from per student
spending multiplied by projected enrollment in public education at these levels.
The counterpart funds of the project will amount to $6.3 million over 5 years. The recurrent cost to be
financed after the life of the project include (i) 920 new PROHECO basic education teachers at a cost of
52.44 million lempiras per year; (ii) 800 new preschool volunteers at a cost of 10.4 million Lempiras per
year; and (iii) 200 EIB volunteers at a cost of 2.6 million lempiras per year. The total is 65.5 million
lempiras or US$4.4 million per year.
- 22 -



To give an additional level of comfort, this analysis took into account the new IDB Secondary Education
Project's counterpart funding during the project and recurrent cost financing afterwards. The IDB credit is
$20 million for four years, and counterpart funding is $2.6 million. Since the IDB project primarely
finances capacity building, the recurrent cost is expected to finance only 200 new teachers at an estimated
36,000 Lempiras per person per year.
The projections show substantial differences among the three scenarios in the amount of GDP, government
budget, SE budget, and share of each subsector within the SE budget. However, the counterpart funds and
the recurrent costs after the end of the project represent only a small share in all of the scenarios - ranging
from 0.3 percent of GOH budget during the first year of project implementation for both IDA and IDB
projects, to 1.2 -1.6 percent of all three scenarios. Given the relatively small share of these counterpart
funds and recurrent costs, the project seems sustainable.
3. Technical:
The following technical studies supported the design, quality and sustainable impact of the activities
financed by the project:
*   A study of the first two years of implementation of PROHECO, including its benefits and risks.
*   Extemal evaluation of education quality, existing capacity and the areas for future support.
* A study of the intercultural and bilingual education program financed by the prior IDA-supported
Project.
*   A  study of the In-Service Teaching Program  (Programa de Formacion  Continua, PFC)
co-implemented by the National Pedagogical University of Honduras (UPNFM).
-   Review of the Community-Based Early Childhood Care and Education Service Delivery Programs.
*   Review of the rural education services modalities, including multigrade teaching and participatory
child-centered strategies.
4. Institutional:
The Institutional Assessment included (i) the consideration of cost-effectiveness criteria to design the
decentralized provision of support services to schools, and (ii) a project implementation capacity
assessment of each of the central and local institutions involved in project execution.
Cost-Effectiveness Criteria
The following cost-effectiveness lessons were considered in terms of the decentralized execution of the
project through local education offices (departments and districts):
*   Central distribution of textbooks and other instructional materials showed high inventories
costs due to long warehouse storage, inefficient distribution, and lack of local participation and
transparency.
*   High numbers and salary costs of non-specialized staff at the central level (SE), who are not
willing to travel or relocate closer to schools.
*   Slow and highly politicized process of re-engineering at the central level, including resistance
to organizational changes, which absorbed considerable financial resources, limited outcomes,
and blocked efficient services for schools.
*   Departmental education offices and school districts require additional support for existing
investments in infrastructure and human resources, to make their services fully operational.
*   Worldwide school development research shows that administrative and pedagogical services
from institutions closest to schools are more pertinent and efficient.
- 23 -



Project Implementation Capacity:
The Government project preparation team, supported by external consultants and IDA staff, conducted an
implementation capacity assessment, with the following objectives:
*   Identify those actions necessary to achieve successful and sustainable implementation of the project;
*   Assess the organizational capacity of the SE and key implementing units to successfully implement the
activities defined by the project;
*   Propose actions, strategies and policies required to strengthen project implementation units; and
*   Contribute to the understanding, ownership and commitment of actors involved in implementing the
new project.
The participatory strategies included workshops and in-situ focus groups with schools, departmental and
district staff in several regions of the country. The analysis covered global objectives/strategies and
specific activities of each unit responsible for implementing key project activities. Specific analytical
dimensions included: (i) organizational settings; (ii) leadership; (iii) human, physical and financial
resources; and (iv) work practices (see Annex 13).
The assessment concluded that the key executing agencies will be able to implement the project provided
that:
*   the UTEN has a high quality core team to start project implementation and coordination of activities;
*   on-going and in-situ technical assistance is provided to gradually strengthen procurement and financial
activities;
*   a gradual implementation of project activities controls the results of the project supported innovations,
specially the ones related to quality improvements, such as the multigrade methodologies, the expansion
of the PROHECO model, and the creation of school councils (ADELs) in traditional rural schools;
*   the Government complies with the action plans for both procurement and financial management,
closing capacity gaps before project effectiveness; and
*   the project undertakes further capacity building steps during its first year of implementation , as
detailed in the tables in Annex 13.
Assessment of units which will be involved in project implementation
*   Secretariat of Education: At the central level, the evaluation confirmed that many SE staff are
resisting change, lack skills, and are not always willing to work closer to schools and conmnunities.
Nonetheless, a group of SE leaders have a positive vision and are guiding the proposed education
reform policies and strategies. The assessment of SE units which will be involved in project
implementation (Direcci6n General de Educaci6n, Unidad de Gesti6n Escolar, Direcci6n General de
Servicios Pedag6gicos, Departamento de Tecnologia Educativa, de Diseno Curricular, la Direcci6n
General de Evaluacion de la Calidad) recommended the use of existing human resources, while
providing the needed technical assistance, financial and material resources to carry out project
activities. Knowledge and know-how transfer will stengthen the skill base of the SE and will motivate
its personnel.
*   Technical Unit for National Education Transformation (UTEN - Unidad de Transformacion
Educativa Nacional): UTEN coordinates the education reform investment activities, seeking to assure
synergies among projects and programs under execution. Technical staff for the UTEN will be selected
through competitive procedures and will receive support from external consultants during project
implementation. An Administrative and Financial Unit (UAF) within the UTEN will be responsible for
- 24 -



coordinating the administrative procedures of the Project. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the
UAF will be established and staffed from a national pool of highly qualified financial, procurement and
monitoring specialists.
*   Departmental Education Offices: The institutional assessment pointed out some of the weaknesses in
the Department education offices which will be addressed by the institutional development components
of the project, including the: (i) need to incorporate more skilled professionals in pedagogical, planning
and evaluation areas; (ii) lack of adequate technology and equipment for planning and monitoring
functions; and (iii) need to strengthen the supervision and monitoring functions to support the district
level. Despite these deficiencies, existing departmental staff are highly enthusiastic and supportive of
community participation strategies. The project will provide resources to close the human and physical
resources gap and build managerial and leadership capacity.
*   School Districts: The implementation capacity analysis determined school districts need to support
more than 50 percent of overall project tasks and activities. In terms of leadership and human
resources, school districts seem to have a concrete vision of their role and are very motivated. District
staff are knowledgeable of school needs and are in direct contact with teachers. Nonetheless, they lack
information technology and supervision skills and have limited financial and material resources,
including physical space and transportation. The project's School Districts Strengthening
sub-component addresses these needs, providing them infrastructure, equipment, vehicles and even
financial resources to support their functions in promoting, organizing, training and providing technical
assistance to schools.
*   PROHECO  Coordination Unit: The assessment confimed the high level of commitment and
enthusiasm of the PROHECO team. However, it identified areas to be strengthened, in light of the
expansion and consolidation of the program. The assessment called for: (i) training and capacity
building for PROHECO leaders at the central and departmental levels; (ii) improving implementation
planning, programming and supervision; and (iii) developing an active impact evaluation and
monitoring system.
*   UPNFM (Universidad Pedagogica Nacional, Francisco Morazan): The assessment concluded that
the UPNFM has developed a clear vision of its goal and functions in the education sector, mainly as a
provider of high quality training for teachers, education research and evaluation. The university
leadership has provided a clear path for quality improvements and for international feedback, including
seeking international university standards for accreditation and participating in intemational
inter-university technical capacity improvement agreements.  The evaluation of the Education
Evaluation Quality Unit (UMCE), within the UPNFM, confirmed the quality of services rendered to
the education system, and concluded that the evaluation capacity developed is one of the best in the
Central America region. In terms of administration capacity, the external financial and administrative
audits of various projects and contracts managed by the university have been satisfactory. The
Government of Honduras seeks to continue to support the increased capacity of the UPNFM to
guarantee on-going high quality teachers' training and education quality evaluation.
- 25 -



4.1 Executing agencies:
At the central level, the project executing agencies are the:
*   SE: as an overall coordinator;
*   Administrative and Financial Unit (UAF) of the UTEN: administrative matters for financial
management and procurement procedures of IDA credits funds;
* National Pedagogical University, Francisco Morazan (UPNFM): implementation of the external
evaluation and teacher training subcomponents; and
*   Ministry of Finance: providing counterpart funds and expediting requests for replenishments of the
Special Account.
At the local level, the two key executing agencies are the
*   School Districts, as part of the SE: support all aspects of community organization and school-based
management; and
*   Community and School Associations (ADELs and AECOs): management of project funds and other
inputs to schools.
4.2 Project management:
The Community-Based Management Project incorporates successful experiences from the latter part of the
previous IDA- supported education project including:
* a highly qualified cadre of administrative professionals in financial management and procurement hired
from the private sector;
*   continuous communication and coordination with the Ministry of Finance, for readily available credit
and counterpart funds; and
*   decentralized executing mechanisms used at the district, community and school levels, successfully
tested under the ongoing project.
For project implementation, a highly qualified procurement team within the UAF of the UTEN will be
hired, and its performance will be constantly monitored and evaluated by the SE, the Ministry of Finance
and the Bank. The SE will hire a technical assistance agency to provide support in project implementation.
A competitive process has been already carried out to identify an international agency with the best
technical and financial proposal.
4-3 Procurement issues:
Procurement issues and problems with the existing education IDA credit were assessed and addressed.
Chronic problems include lack of capacity in procurement staff, who had education sector experience but
were not administration or procurement specialists and had no private sector experience. In addition, the
agency hired to support the procurement processes had limited time to provide technical assistance or to
build capacity within the education sector, focusing instead on processing paper work and payments.
The procurement assessment found that the procurement process in Honduras appears more developed than
in earlier IDA-financed projects. Nonetheless, the overall risk is high. Thus, IDA will provide close
procurement supervision from the onset until implementation pace reflects satisfactory performance (see
Annex 6 for details).
- 26 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
The weak institutional capacity of the public sector in Honduras has traditionally affected its financial
management capacities. The project will not only guarantee appropriate financial and audit systems, but
will support the transparency and accountability of project inputs through decentralized processes and
community oversight of inputs received by schools. The new project guarantees administrative staff with
private sector experience and clear knowledge of Government and IDA financial procedures, as well as a
full functioning management information system.
In accordance with IDA's policy OP/BP 10.02, the LCR Financial Management Unit (LCOAA) reviewed
the project's financial management system. The review focused on the assessment of the internal controls,
planning, budgeting, accounting, financial reporting system and audit arrangements (see Annex 6 for
details).
It was concluded that the project did not have yet in place a system satisfying IDA's financial management
requirements; hence, an action plan was agreed with the Government (see Annex 6), to reach financial
arrangements satisfactory to IDA before credit effectiveness. The action plan aims at allowing the project
to implement a functional financial management system that provides, with reasonable assurance, accurate
and timely financial information via Project Management Reports (PMRs).
Until the project is considered capable of producing PMRs in an accurate and timely fashion,
disbursements will be based on traditional procedures, including the use of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) with thresholds matching those of prior review for procurement (See Annex 6, Table B).
Reimbursement of other expenditures would require submitting full documentation to IDA. Retroactive
financing would not exceed an equivalent amount of $3 million for expenditures incurred within the year
preceeding the signature of the Loan Agreement, for activities related to the validation and adaptation of the
national curriculum, training related to these activities and the creation of AECO-PROHECO schools.
4.5 Legal Issues:
Financial Transfers to PROHECO schools for Payment of Teachers and Community Volunteers. The
financing of PROHECO teachers and community volunteers plays a key role in the strategies for
community participation; school development; and availability, retention and productivity of teachers in
rural areas. Therefore, based on OMS 1.21 (Financing of Recurrent Costs), recurrent costs of PROHECO
teaching staff will be financed out of the proposed credit proceeds on a declining basis, allowing the
government to absorb them progressively.
Legal Status of School Management Associations (AECO and ADELs). PROHECO follows
appropriate legal requirements to establish Community Education Committees (AECOs). The SE, via an
agreement with the AECO members, legally conforms the AECO (providing "personeria juridica"),
allowing it to manage and account for the use of public funds. Law (Decreto No. 266-98 of October 30,
1998) sets forth the legal framework, responsibilities and functions of AECOs. A similar law for the
formation of the ADELs was drafted and sent to Congress for its approval. The issuance of said law
(including the regulations to said law) for the creation and operation of the ADELs is a condition of
disbursement for the respective ADEL investments under the project.
- 27 -



Inter-Institutional Agreements Between SE and Other Project Implementation Entities. As part of the
strategy of inter-institutional alliances in the social sector, the Francisco Morazan National Pedagogical
University (UPNFM) will implement the teacher training and external evaluation sub-components of the
project. An inter-institutional implementation agreement will detail the functions and responsabilities of
each party. The UPNFM will mantain separate accounting and files for the project and will be part of the
annual external financial audits. The signing of said agreement is a condition of effectiveness.
Selection of the UPNFM as an implementing agency within the project is justified by: (i) its coordination
with Government efforts during the past decade to build the capacity to carry out external evaluations of
the education system; (ii) the UPNFM's excellent track record in implementing the standardized testing for
Basic Education and, thus, monitor the quality of education in the country (through its "Unidad de
Medicion de la Calidad de la Educaci6n"); (iii) the UPNFM's innovative teacher training strategies, which
include state-of-the-art research facilities, distance education methods, teaching satellites in all territorial
departments in Honduras, and in-classroom follow-up of its trainees to guarantee application of
pedagogical methods.
Sound Management Practices and Performance Agreement of Project Technical Staff   Project
irnplementation success relies heavily on the performance and commitment of the technical staff hired to
manage the different aspects of project execution. To this effect, the SE will include a performance clause
in every contract. The Government and IDA agreed to annually monitor the performance of technical staff
funded by credit proceeds.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Major Issues: The project presents no major environmental issues nor is it heavily involved in infrastructure
construction. The project will complement the school infrastructure program already underway through the
Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS) by supporting community participation processes to define
appropriate education infrastructure needs. The operational and the AECO manual state that school
district infrastructure, including schools built by FHIS, the community, or other public or private agencies,
will not cause any resettlement of population. The approval of the Operational Manual and the AECO
Manual by IDA is a condition of effectiveness.
The social assessment carried out identified the environmental education needs of some communities
(especially ethnic groups), which will be addressed in the component for local adaptation of the national
curriculum and related instructional materials, teacher training and school development projects.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
*   Community participation and self assessment by rural communities
* Socio-environmental considerations of local curriculum
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
- 28 -



The rapid rural assessment and stakeholder consultations undertaken by the Government and IDA used a
participatory process to collect data and analyze the education needs of rural communities, including
environmental education requests, especially in ethnic communities. The consultation strategies included:
*   Town Meetings
*   Focus Groups
*   One on one interviews with community leaders
*   Meetings with national institutions and NGOs working with ethnic groups and poor rural communities
*   Visits to a sample of communities representing the nine ethnic groups and isolated rural communities
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Project Impact Evaluation will include assessment of the application of the adapted curriculum and
teaching strategies in terms of social and environmental awareness and actions of teachers and students
participating in the project.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The Project Participation Plan was designed on the basis of the following social issues:
*   Social acceptance and support for PROHECO and its community participation strategies.
* Requests from ethnic groups for inter-cultural and bilingual education programs.
*   Requests from stakeholders from community participation in monitoring the delivery of project inputs
to schools.
:   Involvement of NGOs and Organized Community Groups in project related activities; especially in the
provision of community-based preschool services.
Social Assessment A Rapid Rural Appraisal (RRA) was conducted in November 2000, as a joint effort
of the Government of Honduras and IDA. Four teams of social scientists and education specialists visited
49 communities in 19 municipalities of 11 departments. The appraisal included included a review of the
pertinence of existing programs such as PROHECO and the Intercultural Bilingual Program (EIB), and the
feasibility of introducing these programs in new communities. The RRA consulted communities on the
pertinence of community-based preschool centers (CEPENF, CCIE) and also surveyed the feasibility of
introducing School Councils (Asociaciones de Desarrollo Educativo Local-ADEL) and school
improvement projects (PECs) as a means of decentralizing educational and financial resources directly to
communities.
The sampled communities are located in the departments of Santa Barbara, Copan, El Paraiso, Francisco
Morazan, Olancho, Valle, Choluteca, Atlantida, Col6n, Gracias a Dios (Mosquitia) and Bay Islands. Focus
groups were conducted in all communities with teachers, parents, students and the Indigenous Federations.
Interviews were carried out with School Principals, Department and District Directors, NGOs working in
education, and indigenous authorities. In communities with indigenous populations, the RRA consulted
beneficiaries regarding the demand for Intercultural Bilingual education, Spanish/bilingual teachers, and
the introduction of PROHECO-EIB preschool and basic school in communities not yet covered by the
program (See Annex 11).
- 29 -



Some of the conclusions of the Social Assessment are:
PROHECO
*   This decentralized, community-based program is widely accepted, as the best answer to educational
needs, particularly in hard-to-reach rural areas;
*  Teachers in PROHECO communities are much more satisfied with the high level of collaboration and
support from the communities than those in traditional school settings. However, PROHECO teachers
still show apprehension regarding job stability and teachers' benefits (i.e. retirement, access to loans);
*   According to school district Directors, drop-out rates, repetition rates, students and teachers'
attendance records, and community participation in school life in PROHECO schools exceeds those of
traditional schools;
*   There are still many extremely poor regions in the country (i.e. Mosquitia, and slums of Bay Islands)
where PROHECO has not been introduced; in these areas, the community-based program could help
solve numerous problems (i.e. teachers' absentism, lack of school supplies, long distances walked by
children at high risk).
Community-Based Preschool Education (CEPENF)
*   Only 38 percent of Honduran children attend preschool, and half of them attend CEPENFs in rural and
periurban areas;
*   CEPENFs are highly valued by parents and teachers;
- The informal status of CEPENF volunteers and the financial dependence on NGOs are significant
concerns;
-   There is consensus on keeping the preschools attached to primary schools.
School Government in Traditional Schools (ADELs) and Education Improvement Projects (PEC)
3   All the communities consulted welcomed the idea of the introduction of school councils in traditional
schools and of the community-managed projects (PEC) in traditional and PROHECO schools.
Intercultural and Bilingual Education (EIB) and Indigenous Development Plan
o  There is urgent demand for EIB in ethnic communities (Miskito, Garifuna, Chorti, Pech, Tawahka,
Tolupan, Creole).
3   The Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, agreed with the SEP, recommends (i) reorganization of the
SE's National Education Program for Ethnic Communities (PRONEEAAH) and the decentralization of
the program to the district level; (ii) a comprehensive in-service Teachers' Training Program; (iii)
evaluation of existing grammar texts, teacher and student manuals and dictionaries in seven languages;
(iv) a monitoring and evaluation system to measure student progress; and (v) an impact evaluation
during the mid-term review.
*  The Indigenous Development Plan is incorporated into the design of the project. Each project
component will have a specific application for inter-cultural and bilingual education. The Project is
innovative as it mainstreams indigenous development in the project's implementation strategies and
development objectives, guaranteeing that the curriculum reforms, pedagogical methods and
community participation strategies reach the country's nine ethnic groups.
On-going Social Evaluations
*   The social assessment recommends mid-term  impact evaluations of the different programs
(ADEL-PECs, EIB) in 2003, and an impact evaluation of PROHECO by December 2001. The impact
evaluations would try to measure not only equity (education for all), efficiency (student and teacher
performance, student age-appropriateness), and cost-effectiveness relative to remoteness (students and
teachers), but also the social capital produced by the decentralized community-based PROHECO,
ADEL and EIB in the beneficiary communities.
- 30 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project preparation has used the existing country venues for stakeholder and community consultations,
including the Foro Nacional de Convergencia (FONAC), NGO umbrella organizations, and municipal and
community town meetings. All feasibility studies have included participatory data collection, analysis and
feedback tools. During project implementation, close to 70 percent of project funds will be executed by
community education councils, school governments and school districts. Administrative mechanisms,
including social audits of project inputs, are incorporating decentralized and community participation
strategies.
The introduction of each community-based program (PROHECO, PECs, CEPENF, EIB) includes a
consultation/ socialization process which requires not only acceptance by the community, but also
appropriation of the program and commitment for sustainability. All these programs seek to educate and
empower the communities to share the responsibility of education with the State.
For the structuring of the Intercultural Bilingual Program, a program specialist from each autochthonous
federation (Lenca, Chorti, Garifima, Miskito, Tolupan, Pech, Tawahka, Nahoa, Creole) will coordinate
actions with the corresponding district authorities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Project identification followed the consultation process of FONAC and met with other NGO umbrella
organizations (e.g., Interforos) and district and school stakeholders. Project preparation continued the
consultation process. The terms of reference for all firms and consultants that carried out feasibility
studies called for the use of participatory data collection, analysis and feedback instruments. The social
assessment (Annex 1 1) documents this participatory process during project preparation. A participation
strategy for the execution of the project has been already developed.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Within the key executing agencies (see institutional arrangements) the following participatory processes,
procedures, expertise and instruments have been and will be created:
*   At the level of the Secretariat of Education, the PROHECO office has a proven system and
organization to promote and guarantee community organization, decision making and management
of human and financial resources.
*   At the departmental and district levels, the project is providing training in community participation
processes, and is integrating an expert in community promotion and technical assistance into each
local teams .
*   At the community level, the project will strengthen the successful creation of the Community
Education Associations (AECOs), which have already accumulated experience in managing public
resources for their schools; it will also create homologous school organizations in traditional
schools (ADELs).
*   For the structuring of the Intercultural Bilingual Program, a program  specialist from each
autochthonous federation (Lenca, Chorti, Garifina, Miskito, Tolupan, Pech, Tawahka, Nahoa,
Creole) will be hired by the SE as a liaison between the SE and the linguistic group. The
reorganization of EIB at the central level and the implementation of the Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan (IPDP) will require the consensus of all the ethnic specialists, their federations
and the SE.
- 31 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The monitoring and evaluation strategy for social development outcomes has been prepared (see Annex
12). The project will monitor the expected social outcomes (commitment to education, social involvement,
interpersonal relations among school and community actors, etc.) resulting from the project's participation
strategies and mechanisms, information, consultation and community management.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicabilitl
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    * Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Indigenous and Afro-Honduran populations are targeted beneficiaries of the Project. Representatives and
community actors of the country's nine ethnic groups were consulted during project identification and
preparation. As a result, all project components have provisions for the implementation of the Indigenous
Development Plan already agreed with the Governnent (see Annex 11).
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the decentralization and community participation reforms will largely depend on their
success on the ground and how stakeholders are informed of, involved in, and accountable for the outputs
and outcomes of their schools. Participation and decentralization strategies change the distribution of
power and decision making, provoking resistance from traditional actors. "Championing" the successes and
being open about the challenges of community-based and school-based management strategies (and taking a
collective approach to resolve them), can help bring sustainable changes in institutional cultures and in
people's perceptions. To support this change efforts, a social communication program was planned as part
of the information, education and consultation (IEC) strategy for the Project.
Project preparation has focused on its financial sustainability. Cost-effectiveness of the investments and
the transparency in the use of credit and government funds are expected to reduce unsustainable financial
inefficiencies. Especially, project preparation assessed the cost-benefits of the proposed community
education strategies, including the sustainability of its recurrent costs. This study compared favorably the
costs of community participation to its substantive pedagogical, social and even economic benefits.
Furthermore, the education quality reforms require an integration of inputs provided to schools: (i)
textbooks based on the new curriculum; (ii) teachers trained on curriculum application and adaptation, (iii)
- 32 -



appropriate use of pedagogical methods and educational materials; (iv) student evaluations accompanied by
dissemination and improvement strategies; etc.  In many cases, these inputs have been provided
independently. If schools receive fragmented and uncoordinated quality interventions, the sustainability of
its impact is jeopardized. In this project, community-based processes will support local strategies-for
which education service providers will be accountable-to guarantee that educational inputs are integrated
and, its impact, sustainable.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Support from key education stakeholders     M         The Participation and Consultation Plan and the
IEC Strategies target key education stakeholders
to gain and/or maintain the support for the
objectives and interventions of the project
Technical advice to ground educational      M         Technical assistance will focus on
reforms at school level                               implementation of reforms at school and
classroom level, not on academic studies
Appropriate support to local education      M         Incentives at the SE and other central offices
offices (departmental education offices,              aimed to promote appropriate support for local
school districts and schools)                         education offices
Parents will send their children to school  M         The involvement of parents in opening new
if supply is increased                                schools guarantees they want to and will send
their children to school
Economic crisis will not draw children out  M         Financial support of school development in poor
of schools to work.                                   communities will help mitigate economic
pressures
From Components to Outputs
Agreement on National Curricular            M         The Project provides resources to support the
Reforms                                               on-going national curricular reforms in the
country and for validation of these reforms by
teachers and other key stakeholders
Integration of quality education inputs     S         The Project focuses the identification and
(materials, training, leaming assessment,             control of educational inputs at the school level.
parental involvement, etc.)                           The monitoring systems will guarantee that
schools receive an integrated package of
resources for school improvement.
Understanding of Need for both Extemal      S         The Project supports both extemal evaluations
Evaluation of Education Quality and                   and intemal leaming assessments, and promotes
Internal Leaming Assessments.                         coordination between them
Trained Teachers Remain in Rural Areas      S         The Project provides incentives in the form of
opportunities for professional development and
support of teachers by communities to promote
retention of teachers in isolated rural areas
- 33 -



Delays to approve the legal framework to    M         The Project supports the creation of school
allow the creation of ADELs                           governments in traditional schools. The draft
legislation has been sent to Congress. There is
widespread support for greater community
participation in school management in
Honduras.
Authority to carry out decentralization     S         The Project will support change management
and school management reforms delegated               interventions at the central level to foster
to local offices and communities.                     changes in centralized institutional culture and
resistance.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Community Participation strategies and school-based management models, during their early stages of
implementation traditionally received criticism by teacher unions. In Honduras, teachers unions were
initially suspicious of PROHECO, perceiving the program as a "privatization" of education and being
skeptical of management of education resources by schools. To minimize the risks of such initial criticism,
the Government and the SE undertook, and will continue to implement, the following activities:
*   Actively clarified any mis-information about PROHECO and dissemined the positive pedagogical,
social and democratization results of the Program, through workshops, the media, and one-to-one
meetings with teacher union leaders.
*   Incorporated within the new Project an Information, Education and Consultation (IEC) to pro-actively
respond to the needs of all actors involved in the community education programs; and to support an
open, transparent and easily accesible system of information to prevent misperceptions and reduce
resistance to positive management changes in the education sector.
* Promoted exchange of international experiences in school based management and participatory
education models, for all key actors in the education system, including SE staff, teachers, teacher union
leadership, and legal and regulatory entitites.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Operational Manual and AECO Manual approved by IDA;
*   Signed inter-institutional agreement between the Universidad Pedagogica Nacional Francisco
Morazan (UPNFM) and the Secretaria de Educaci6n (SE) for the UPNFM co-implementation of the
teacher training and extemal evaluation of education quality subcomponents of the project.
*   UAF established and adequately staffed;
*   Implementation of financial management arrangements satisfactory to IDA;
*   Employment of independent auditors by the Borrower to carry out the yearly audits of project records
and accounts.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*   The legal agreement includes as a condition for disbursement of funds to the ADELs the approval of:
(a) a law (including its regulations) that will provide legal support to the creation and operation of these
school councils and that said law is in full force and effect; and (b) the ADEL Manual, reviewed by
and acceptable to the Association.
- 34 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
L 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
*   Completion of Action Plan for Financial Management System Readiness
*   Executive Agreemenit for Legal Status of ADEL
*   Signed Inter-Institutional Agreement between SE and the National Pedagogical University (UPNFM)
for thc Teacher Training and External Evaluation of Education Quality
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
D 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Ll 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Joe'l E. Reyes        v5 ieY Coll                                   Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country Manager
- 35 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
HONDURAS: HN/COMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
Key Perormance
Hiea yft     Xbeivs                  Indlcators           MOting  & Evaluation            CriticaAssumpons
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:             Sectorl country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To support the Government's  Health, education and labor   Periodic Living Standard      Economic situation continues to
reconstruction and transformation statistics               Measurement Survey (LSMS)   improve, continued political
program, with a strong emphasis                            analysis                      support, and country
on reducing poverty, improving                                                           reconstruction continues as
the quality of human capital and                                                         planned.
strengthening the social safety
net.
Project Development          Outcome I Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
Improve the quality of         *  Increased enrollment rates  I.Evaluations from the Unit for   The Government will maintain its
preschool and lower basic         in rural preschool and   External Evaluation of the    commitment to the community
education (grade 1-6 ) in         lower basic education by 5 Quality of Education (UMCE) in  based education strategies,
targeted poor rural,               and 8 percentage points   the UPNFM.                  providing adequate support and
intercultural and bilingual        respectively.                                        funding.
communities.                                ~~~~~~~~~2. Periodic LSMS analysis
communities..                                                      
3. Impact evaluation report.
*  Increased early entry and   4. UTEN evaluation of education
promotion and reduced    coverage and performance (based
repetition and dropout  on national educational statistics).
rates in rural schools
(baseline data 1999).
*  Improved performance in   Comparison with available 1999
standardized test scores in  base line data.
Spanish and Mathematics
for 3rd and 6th grade
students from mainly rural
multigrade schools
*  Improved results in
students evaluations of
social achievements and
self-esteem (non-cognitive
development).
*  Improved teachers
productivity measured by
attendance and days of
work (baseline data 1999)
*  Changes in perception,
attitude and behavior in
key actors involved in the
schools: principals,
teachers, students and the
community
*  Availability and relevance
of education learning
materials for rural schools.
- 36 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives ,            Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation         Critial Assumptions
Output from each             Output Indicators:            Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component I                                                1. Report on the validation   1. Support from key education
Subcomponent A.                                            process presented by the SE.  stakeholders
National curriculum validated    1. Report from teachers validating
and tools developed to implement the curricular options proposed by
it in Preschool and Basic    the SE;                                                     2. Technical advise provides
Education.                   2.Available and validated                                   grounding of education reform
pedagogical guidelines to identify                         vision at the local level.
learning disabilities;
3. Study on curricular,
pedagogical and other associated
needs of urban poor schools.
Component 1                                                                              3. SE, Department staff and
Subcomponent B                                                                           project pedagogical advisors
Application of the curriculum   1. Available and validated                               proved appropriate support to
and use of the educational   preschool pedagogical                                       school districts, communities and
materials in rural schools for  adaptations and didactic                                 school principals and teachers.
preschools and basic levels.   materials for 1,200 preschool
teachers and 30,000 students;
2. Available and validated
multigrade pedagogical
adaptations and didactic
materials for 4,500 lower
basic education (grades 1-6)
teachers and 300,000 students;
3. Available and validated
intercultural and bilingual
pedagogical adaptations and
didactic materials for 1,200
intercultural and bilingual
lower education teachers and
45,000 students and 400
intercultural and bilingual
preschool teachers and 15,000
students.
- 37 -



Component I
Subcomponent C
Availability of an appropriate  1. Available and validated
evaluation system of the  student assessment guidelines Evaluation Reports from the
quality of education and the   and instruments for preschool evaluation department
legal framework to support it. and grades1-6;        (Direcci6n General de
Evaluaci6n, Secretaria de
2. Available and disseminated Educaci6n) and the UMCE (in
results of bi-annual      the UPNFM).
standardized test scores for
3rd and 6th graders in the
4,000 rural and EIB
communities targeted by the
project.
Component I
Subcomponent D
Training of teachers,     1. Completed training and
volunteer teaching assistants  performace assessments in    Supervision reports from the
working in preschool and  pedagogical methods and    District offices.
lower basic education schools community participation for
and technical experts at  500 district staff, 400 teacher
district level on         trainers (from "escuelas
implementation of the new    normales"), 1,200 preschool
curricula and new teching    community volunteers, 300
methods.                  intercultural and bilingual
community based volunteers,
and 2,900 lower basic
education rural teachers, and
600 intercultural and bilingual
teachers.
- 38 -



H. Community-Based
Provision of Preschool and
Basic Education Services
Subcomponent A              1. Creation of PROHECO
Expansi6n and Strengthening  Schools and Training of AECOs  Annual technical evaluation,  1. Sufficient community
of PROHECO                  in 600 communities in rural areas produced by UTEN, on   support and funding
and in 200 intercultural and  PROHECO schools            2. Parents will send their
bilingual communities,                                   children to school if supply is
2. Hire and retain 720      Supervision report from     increased
PROHECO teachers (grades 1-9) District offices.          3. Adequate supply of
and 600 preschool volunteers                             education providers and
3. New education services for                           NGOs for the preschool
1,200 preschool students and                            programs.
27,600 for lower basic education
1. Creation of PROHECO
Subcomponent B              Schools and Training of AECOs
Creation of PROHECO         in 200 intercultural and bilingual Annual technical evaluation,
Intercultural and Bilingual    cormnunities,            produced by UTEN, on
Schools                     2. Hire and retain 200      PROHECO schools
intercultural and bilingual
teachers (grades 1-9), 200
intercultural and bilingual
preschool volunteers, and 200
intercultural and bilingual
community volunteers.
III. Strengthening
School-Based Management
Subcomponent A
Organization of School      n. Creation and training of 2,800  Annual technical evaluation,  1. Approval of the legal
Govemments in rural schools  schools and 400 ADELs in   produced by UTEN, on         framework that allow the
(Asociaciones de Desarrollo  schools in intercultural and  traditional schools       creation of ADELs in
Educativo - ADEL)           bilingual communities.      administered by ADELs        traditional schools.
Subcomponent B
Design and implementation of 1. Planning and financing of
Projectos Educativos de     1,400 PECs by AECOs, 2,800    Consolidated report by
Centro - PEC                PECs by ADELs, 800 PECs in   departments to UTEN on
intercultural and bilingual  PECs progress.
communities
2. Strengthening of 400 teacher
learning centers (CADs) and
1,500 training centers for AECO
and ADEL parents (escuelas para
padres)
IV. Strengthening of
Decentralized Education
offices
- 39 -



Subcomponent A              1. Key central offices (such as UTEN annual report, based on
Stengthening Central Offices  UTEN, PROHECO and other) the district and department
Capacity to Support         staffed with high performing  periodic reports.
Community-Based Education  technical staff and appropriate
Programs                    guiding instruments (manual,
information systems, IEC
campaigns) for
community-based education
programs.
2. Available databases with
results for monitoring reports for
PROHECO, CCPREB,
intercultural and bilingual and
transfers for PECs;
3. Accounting systems and
aggregated financial
consolidations for Project
Management, Audit and WB
requirements;
4. Updated information and
inventories on project providing
inputs aggregated by schools,
district, department and national
level;
5. Successful implementation of a
national IEC campaign in support
of community participation and
school based management.
Subcomponent B                                          UTEN annual report, based on
Strengthen the institutional   1. Updated statistics by  the district and department
capacity of the Departmental  education program being   periodic reports.
offices to plan and monitor   implemented in the
education programs          department;
Monitoring reports aggregated
at the departmental level for
PROHECO, CCPREB,
intercultural and bilingual and
PECs tranfers;
2. Accounting systems and
aggregated financial
consolidations of legalized
expenditures form AECOs and
ADELs in the Department;
3. Updated information on
education inputs and
inventories aggregated and by
school, district and
department level.
- 40 -



Subcomponent C
Strengthen the institutional    I. Proper infrastructure and  Annual evaluation report,
capacity of the Districts to  equipment in at least 86 school   produced by UTEN, on
support curricular adaptations districts;                   coverage and performance of
and community participation. 2. Properly formed and trained   the education system.
district teams including a district
director and at least 3 district
technical officers (or "change
agents");
3. Positive comments by
community leaders, AECO and
ADEL members on the support
provided by their district director
and their technical officer;
4. Implemented systems and data
collection to feed educational
statistics and input inventories to
be aggregated at the departnental
level.
-41-



Hierarchy of Obectives             Itlcators            Moniting & SEvaluation          Criticil Assumptions
Project Components J         Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                Outputs)
I. Local Application of
National Curriculum for
Pre-School and Lower Basic
Education (grades 1-6).
1. Validation of the National US$0.57 mil.                                             1. Curricular refonns are
Curriculum                                                                             successfully agreed by
national education
2. Effective Application of the   US$4.32 mil.                                         stakeholders.
Curriculum and appropriate
Educational Materials for                                                              2. Educational inputs reach
Preschool and Primary Rural                                                            the school as a comprehensive
Schools                                                                                package and not
independently of each other
3. Student Learning Assessment  US$1.42 mil.                                            1. Evaluation and student
and Education Quality Evaluation                                                       learning results are feed back
Strategies                                                                             to the community, school and
students.
4. In service Teacher        US$3.39 mil.                                               1. Trained teachers remain in
Development and Training                                                               the education system and
Programs                                                                               teaching in the rural sector.
1. Strengthening and Expansion  US$11.05 million                                       1. Sufficient community support
of PROHECO                                                                             and funding
2. Parents will send their children
to school if supply is increased.
2. Creation of Intercultural and   US$3.44 million
Bilingual Schools with the
PROHECO model for Community
Participation and Parental
Involvement
Ill. School Based Management
for Rural Communities
1. Development of a
School-Based Planning and    US$0.63 million.                                           1. Sufficient community support
Community Participation System                                                         and funding
in the Rural Sector.
2. School-Based Design and
Implementation of Education  US$9.33 million
Improvement Projects
- 42 -



IV. Strengthening of
Institutional support for                                                                1. Authority to carry out
Community Participation and  US$4.1 million                                              functions delegated to appropriate
School-Based Management                                                                  levels (within the SEP and
Programs                                                                                 vertically to departnents,
1. Central Support of the                                                               districts, the community and
Community Participation and                                                              schools).
School-based management system US$1.95 million                                           3. Financial resources provided.
in the rural sector                                                                      4. Clear lines of authority across
levels.
2. Strengthening Capacity of
Education Departmental Offices
to Plan Educational Needs and to
Monitor Community-Based      US$5.18 million
Education Programs.
3. Strengthening Capacity of
Education Districts to Support
Curricular Applications and
Community and School-Based
Management
- 43 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
HONDURAS: HN/COMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Objectives and Components:
The general goal of the Honduras Community Based Education Project is to improve the quality of
preschool and lower basic education (grades 1-6) in targeted rural areas in Honduras, including the
improvement of the quality of intercultural and bilingual education in indigenous communities. More than
4,000 rural schools will be targeted, most of which are multigrade schools; 15% are in intercultural and
bilingual communities.
To Project would achieve this goal through the following four objectives: (i) developing educational
strategies and materials suited for multigrade rural schools, that are in line with the national curriculum and
supporting any necessary intercultural and bilingual adaptations; (ii) attracting and retaining teachers in
rural schools through community support and professional development incentives; (iii) strengthening and
expanding existing experiences of community and school-based management of rural schools, and (iv)
guaranteeing the quality support of local education offices (school districts and education departmental
offices) for the three prior objectives (pertinent curricular application and pedagogical processes; attracting
and retaining rural teachers; and community participation and school-based management).
The strategies oriented at achieving the above-mentioned objectives are divided in the following components
of the proposed project: (i) Local School Application of National Curriculum; (ii) Community-Based
Provision of Preschool and Basic Education Services; (iii) School-Based Management for Rural
Communities and (iv) Strengthening of Institutional Support for Community Participation and
School-Based Management Programs Project Supervision.
The project supports existing educational strategies in Honduras that have had success in student
evaluation, teacher training, community participation and decentralization. Most of these education
strategies were initiated by a prior IDA-financed education project (Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la
Educacion Bdsica, PROMEB). The new Project will strengthen the successful elements of PROMEB,
adapt them and expand them to the continuous needs in rural and intercultural schools in Honduras. Table
2.1 outlines the components of the new proposed project and the linkages with the prior IDA-supported
education project in the country.
- 44 -



COMPONENTS FROM                     COMPONENTS FROM PROMEB   STRENGTHENING, EXPANSION AND/OR
THE COMMUNITY-BASED                 (Prior Bank-Financed Education Project)     COMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                 BETWEEN BOTH PROJECTS
I. Local Application of National        1. Improving the Quality of Basic
Curriculum                              Education
*  Validation by Rural Teachers of the              (not addressed)            During the preparation of PROMEB, curricular
National Curriculum for Preschool and                                      guidelines from the early 1 970s were used.
Lower Basic Education (grades 1-6)                                         However, Honduras is now developing a new
national curriculum, with support of international
donors. This Project will support the final stage of
the SE's curriculum reform, by validating (i.e.,
obtaining feedback) the proposed curriculum with
teacher and other education stakeholders in rural
and intercultural and bilingual communities.
*  Effective Application of Curriculum  *  Textbooks and Didactic Materials    The new Project complements textbooks provided
and Appropriate Educational Materials                                      by PROMEB with educational materials for
for Preschool and Primary Rural                                            pedagogical adaptations required by multigrade and
Schools.                                                                   intercultural schools.
*  Student Leaming Assessment and       *  External Evaluation of Student      PROMEB help establish the extemal education
Education Quality Evaluation            Academic Achievement (Unidad de    quality evaluation unit (UMCE) at the National
Strategies                              Medicion de la Calidad Educativa --    Pedagogical University (UPNFM). This Project will
UMCE)                              continue to support the bi-annual standardized
national testing for Spanish, Math and associated
factors to learning. The Project also supports the
SE to implement its system for in-classroom
evaluation of student learning and pedagogical
feedback by and for teachers.
*  In-Service Teacher Development and   *  Training of Teachers (Programa de   The new Project continues the PFC program
Training Programs                       Formaci6n Continua - PFC)          initiated by PROMEB. The PFC will include a
training program for preschool and intercultural and
bilingual community volunteers, who do not have
..    fully accredited teaching credentials.
11. Community-Based Provision of       II. Institutional Strengthening
Education Services
*  Strengthening and Expansion of the   *  Teacher's Performance Improvement    PROMEB supported the launching and first phase
Honduras' Community Education           Program                            of PROHECO, within its component to Improve
Program (PROHECO)                                                          Performance of Teachers in rural areas. The new
Project expands PROHECO at the preschool and
lower basic education levels, and institutionalizes
its implementation (promotion, organization,
training and technical assistance) through the
support of school districts and departmental offices
of the SE.
*  Creation of Intercultural and Bilingual   *  Bilingual Education (part of component PROMEB supported the "normalization and
Schools with the PROHECO Model for      I above)                           systematization" of the Garifina and Misquito
Community Participation and Parental                                       languages, developed dictionaries, and financed
Involvement                                                                linguistic studies. This new Project guarantees all 9
intercultural communities in Honduras access to
pertinent, multicultural and bilingual education
services through the PROHECO model.
111. School-Based Management for Rural
Communities
*  Development of a School-Based                    (not addressed)            This new Project adapts the PROHECO school
Planning and Community Participation                                       council model for traditional rural schools (mostly
System in the Rural Sector                                                 multigrade). In these schools, the Project will
promote, organize and train School Councils
composed of teachers, parents and students, called
ADELs (Asociaciones de Desarrollo Educativo
Local).
-45 -



*  School-Based Design and                           (not addressed)              In PROMEB, the SE centrally managed all school
Implementation of Education                                                   inputs, with some inherent efficiency and
Improvement Projects (Proyectos                                               effectiveness weaknesses (such as long warehousing
Educativos de Centro -- PEC)                                                  time, uncoordinated services, and exclusion of the
most isolated rural schools). This Project will
channel financial resources directly to schools for
the implementation of their own school-based
improvement subprojects and will give priority to
the most excluded rural communities (mainly
multigrade and hard to reach schools).
IV. Strengthening Institutional Support for
Community Participation and
School-Based Management Programs.
*  Central Support of the Community       *  Reorganization of the Ministry of    PROMEB financed a reorganization of the
Participation and School-Based            Education's Central Offices         Secretariat of Education. The new Project will
Management System in the Rural                                                strengthen SE central units (UTEN, PROHECO,
Sector                                                                        Technical Departmnents, etc.) in policy and technical
assistance for community participation,
school-based management strategies, and
coordination of intemational assistance and
investment projects for education reform.
*  Strengthen the Capacity of            *  Strengthening Decentralized Services    PROMEB financed the construction of the
Departmental Education Offices to                                             departmental offices, equipment and new personnel
Monitor Community-Based Education                                             (on a declining basis -- they are now fully
Programs                                                                      incorporated into the government budget). The new
Project proposes to strengthen departmental
functions for education planning and monitoring of
education programs.
*  Strengthen the Capacity of Education  *  Strengthening Decentralized Services    PROMEB financed the hiring of school district
Districts to support rural curricular                                         directors (on a declining basis -- they are now fully
adaptations and community and                                                 incorporated into the government budget). The new
school-based management.                                                      Project proposes to strengthen district functions for
school and community support--especially for
curricular and pedagogical application and
school-based management.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$9.71 million
I. LOCAL APPLICATION OF NATIONAL CURRICULUM
This component will support the pertinent application of the national curriculum in rural multigrade and
intercultural and bilingual schools through the following sub-components and strategies: (The national
curriculum is being developed in the country through the support of other donors and cooperation
agencies.)
A.   Validation by Rural Teachers of the National Curriculum for Preschool and Lower Basic
Education (grade I to 6) -- US$0.57 million
Intervention. This sub-component will support rural teachers' feedback regarding: (i) the national
curriculum  reforms, programs, methodologies, and tools for its implementation in rural and intercultural
and bilingual schools, and (ii) the pedagogical strategies to address learning disabilities. In addition the
sub-component will support the coordination of a similar teachers and education stakeholders' validation
process of the National Curriculum in poor urban areas not addressed by this Project.
Implementation Strategy: The National Curriculum reform is an on-going strategy of the Secretariat of
Education. Therefore, the project will support the SE to carry out the final stage of the curriculum reform
process by providing financial and technical assistance to guarantee national curriculum validation by a
sample of teachers in the rural sector and the coordination with other excluded sectors not addressed by
the project, such as urban marginal schools. Financial and technical contributions would be made to SE's
-46 -



offices (curriculum, bilingual and intercultural education, etc.) and other projects managing this
macro-educational strategy.
Indicators and Targets: The general indicators for this sub-component are (for full details of monitoring
and impact evaluation system see annex 1 and annex 12):
1. Report of validation by rural and intercultural and bilingual teachers of proposed national curriculum
guidelines
2. Available and validated pedagogical guidelines to identify learning disabilities
3. Study on curricular, pedagogical and other associated needs of poor urban schools.
B.   Effective Application of Curriculum and Appropriate Educational Materials for Preschool and
Primary Rural Schools - US$4.32 million
Intervention: This sub-component will: (i) support the integration and implementation of various rural
multigrade teaching and preschool modalities in the country; (ii) provide the appropriate methodologies
and didactic materials to implement multigrade pedagogical strategies in rural schools; and (iii) provide
the appropriate methodologies and didactic materials to implement intercultural and bilingual education
strategies in rural indigenous and Garifuna communities representing all nine ethnic groups in the country.
Implementation Strategy: The Project will provide international and national technical assistance to
design and validate each of the respective curricular and pedagogical adaptations for (i) preschool, (ii)
multigrade and (iii) intercultural and bilingual education. Subsequently, the Project will finance the
required didactic materials, for both teachers and students, in each of these modalities.
Indicators and Targets: The general indicators for this sub-component are:
1. Available and validated preschool pedagogical adaptations and didactic materials for 1,200 preschool
teachers and 30,000 students
2. Available and validated multigrade pedagogical adaptations and didactic materials for 4,500 lower
basic education (grades 1-6) teachers and 300,000 students.
3. Available and validated intercultural and bilingual (EIB) pedagogical adaptations and didactic
materials for 1,200 EIB lower basic education teachers and 45,000 students, and 400 EIB preschool
teachers and 15,000 students.
C.   Student Learning Assessment and Education Quality Evaluation Strategies -- US$1.42 million
Intervention: This sub-component will: (i) support the validation by teachers of the new national learning
assessment and student self-assessment strategies; (ii) develop and distribute student assessment guides for
teachers in primary and preschool levels; (iii) disseminate to districts and communities the student learning
results--by school, subjects and grade levels; (iv) finance external bi-annual, standardized assessments for
3rd and 6th graders to evaluate the quality of education nationwide; and (v) evaluate the innovative
community-based education programs such as PROHECO, Community Based Preschool Services
(CCPREB), Intercultural and bilingual Education (EIB).
Implementation Strategy: The Project will implement activities (i)-(iii) through the SE's Evaluation Unit
and the departmental and district offices, providing international and national technical assistance to
design and validate the learning assessment system and making available to teachers student assessment
manuals and application training workshops. The external evaluation activities will be executed through
the External Evaluation Unit of the Quality of Education (UMCE) created by the previous World Bank
supported education project in the country.
-47 -



Indicators and Targets: The general indicators for this sub-component are:
1. Available and validated student assessment guidelines and instruments for preschool and lower basic
education (grades 1-6)
2. Available and validated student assessment manuals for 1,200 preschool teachers
3. Available and validated student assessment manuals for 4,500 lower basic education teachers
4. Available and validated student assessment manuals for 400 preschool teachers and 1200 basic
education teachers in intercultural and bilingual communities.
5. Available results of bi-annual standardized test scores for 3rd and 6th graders in the 4,000 rural and
intercultural and bilingual (15% of total) communities targeted by the Project
D.   In service Teacher Development and Training Programs -- US$3.39 Million
Intervention: This sub-component will support (i) in-service university training programs for rural
teachers, district staff and teacher trainers. The training will concentrate on multigrade methodologies,
learning evaluation, school-based management and/or intercultural and bilingual education; (ii) quality
enhancement programs for community-based volunteers supporting teaching in preschool and intercultural
and bilingual schools; and (iii) in-classroom training and follow-up for rural education teachers.
Implementation Strategy: The Project will implement the teacher training activities (i and ii) through the
existing Continuing Education Model (Programa de Formaci6n Continua -- PFC) executed by the
Pedagogical University and supported by their local satellite teacher training institutions. The training
delivery mechanism will be a mixed approach through distance strategies, school-based projects and some
lectures on weekends by training staff decentralized at easy to reach locations across the country. These
staff development programs will include incentive mechanisms for rural teachers, through priority will be
given to those teachers working in the most isolated and poverty stricken areas.  Also, the top
academically placed trainees will participate in intemational ex-change programs and field visits during
vacation (for example to rural, multigrade and community participation education programs in nearby El
Salvador and Guatemala). District staff and leading teachers from the in-service university training
programs will support the on-job-training program for rural teachers, making use of the existing teacher
leaming circles (Centros de Aprendizaje Docente -- CADs).
Indicators and Targets: The general indicators for this sub-component are:
1. Training in Community Participation and School Based Management for 500 district staff.
2. Specialization training for 400 teacher trainers (from "escuelas normales")
3. Quality Enhancement Program ("diplomado") for 1,200 preschool community volunteers
4. Quality Enhancement Program ("diplomado") for 300 intercultural and bilingual community based
volunteers
5. PFC university training for 1,600 teachers specialized in multigrade methodologies.
6. PFC university training for 1,300 teachers specialized in other areas (curricular adaptation, student
evaluation, community participation, etc.)
7. PFC university training for 600 teachers specialized in intercultural and bilingual education.
-48-



Project Component 2 - US$14.49 million
II. COMMUNITY-BASED PROVISION OF PRESCHOOL AND BASIC EDUCATION
SERVICES
This component will expand PROHECO, a community-based program  for provision of basic education
services (preschool and grades 1-6) to rural and remote communities and to intercultural bilingual
populations.  PROHECO  also provides incentive mechanisms to attract and retain teachers in these
communities.
A.   Strengthening and Expansion of the Honduras' Community Education Program (PROHECO)
-US$11.05 million
Intervention: This sub-component will support (i) organizing community education councils (AECOs) in
600 remote rural communities; (ii) creating new PROHECO schools in those 600 rural communities, and
(iii) attracting and retaining at least 720 new basic education teachers (grades 1-6) and 600 preschool
volunteers in these new PROHECO schools. Teacher retention would be supported through various
community-based incentives, such as contractual relations between parental committees and teachers,
support of school by parents, and social support of teacher basic needs by the community.
PROHECO is a community-based education management program created to provide education services
in hard-to-reach rural areas, and, in addition, to solve problems regarding: (ii) low student efficiency, (ii)
low productivity of rural teachers, and (iii) lack of educational inputs. The table below present a summary
of problems experienced by targeted PROHECO communities and how the model attempts to provide
solutions.
STRUCTURAL EDUCATION PROBLEMS OF ISOLATED RURAL COMMUNITIES
AND SOLUTION ELEMENTS PROPOSED
BY THE PROHECO MODEL
Structural Educational Disadvantages      Evidenced Negative Outcomes       Solution Elements Proposed by PROHECO
Model
Low Student Efficiency                   *  Late entry to the education system   *  Schools In (or closer to) Isolated Rural
*  Overage Students                        Communities
*  Repetition                          *  Parental Involvement to Support Student
*  Drop-out                                Early Entry and Permanence in School
*  Less years of overall schooling     *  Multigrade Strategies to Provide Increase
Education Services
Low Productivity of Teachers             *  High Tum Over                        *  Contractual model between parental
*  More School Close Days                  committees and teachers guarantees
*  Less Hours of Teaching                  schools opened during school days and
*  Isolated Teachers                       complete hours of teaching.
*  Personal and Social Costs of Teachers  *  Community supports basic personal and
social needs of teacher
*  Incentives provided to teachers, including
available monthly teaching consumable
materials and some economic or in-grant
Lack of Educational Inputs               *  Lack of School Infrastructure        *  Expedited Process for School Opening
*  Lack of basic consumable teaching   *  State (through monthly financial
materials (chalk, paper, pencils, etc.)  transfers) and Community contributions
*  Lack of school security and maintenance  for teaching materials
*  Community support in school security
and maintenance
Implementation Strategy: The Project will implement this sub-component through the already proven
implementation strategies of PROHECO for community promotion, organization and training of parental
committees (Asociaciones Educativas Comunitarias -- AECO), and technical assistance. Without prior
- 49 -



school services, AECOs are naturally formed by community parents that organize themselves to open a
school, select a teacher, and subsequently support and monitor teacher performance. This Project
institutionalizes the promotion, organization, training and technical assistance of AECOs through the SE's
district offices, to which PROHECO promoters will belong. Also the Project will emphasize that the
curricular, pedagogical, learning assessment and teacher training interventions, detailed in the Component
I above, reach and impact PROHECO schools. All PROHECO schools receive financial transfer to
support paying teachers and preschool volunteers, as well as for buying non-durable schools materials
(chalk, paper, pencils, etc.). PROHECO school transfers would be absorbed by the Government on an
incremental basis during the life of the Project. The table below presents the formula for financial
transfers for PROHECO schools, which incorporates preschool sections under a cost-effective community
volunteer strategy:
FORMULA OF ELIGIBLE EXPENDITURES FOR PROHECO SCHOOL TRANSFERS
Cost for One School Year
Eligible Expenditure                                     Amount
Salary of Basic Education Teacher (grades 1-3 and grades 4-6)  * 56,300 lempiras (US$3,753)/yr
Financial Bonus for Preschool Section Volunteer      *  13,000 lempiras (US$866)/yr
*  (financial incentives given to community volunteers in charge of
preschool sections -- does not include yearly training and
professional development)
Transfer for Consumable Teaching Materials           *  1,500 lempiras (US$ I 00)/yr
* (financial transfer to buy basic consumable school items such as
chalk, paper and pencils)
Indicators and Targets: The general indicators for this sub-component are:
1. Successfully organize and train 600 new AECOs
2. Successfully open 600 new PROHECO schools in remote rural areas.
3. Successfully hire and retain 720 PROHECO teachers for lower basic education (grades 1-9)
4. Successfully hire and retain 600 preschool volunteers
5. Provide new education services for at least 12,000 preschool students (an average of 20 per section)
and 27,600 lower basic education students (an average of 46 per school).
B.    Creation of Intercultural and Bilingual Schools with the PROHECO Model for Community
Participation and Parental Involvement - US$3.44 million
Intervention: This sub-component will adapt PROHECO strategies to the education needs of the nine
ethnic communities of Honduras. It will support (i) creating new AECOS and PROHECO schools in at
least 200 intercultural and bilingual communities, and (ii) attracting and retaining 200 EIB-trained lower
basic education teachers, 200 EIB volunteers, and 200 preschool volunteers. Volunteers will be selected
from the local community (guaranteeing cultural and linguistic relevance).
Implementation Strategy: The Project will implement this sub-component by adapting PROHECO
strategies to form parental committees in the 9 ethnic communities of Honduras; supporting these parental
committees in selecting teachers and volunteers within their cultural and linguistic communities; and
providing financial transfers to be managed by the parental committees to support paying teachers,
volunteers, and buying non-durable schools materials (chalk, paper, pencils, etc.). Also the project will
emphasize that the curricular, pedagogical, learning assessment and teacher training interventions
pertinent for intercultural and bilingual education (detailed in Component I above) reach and impact these
schools.
Indicators and Targets: The general indicators for this sub-component are:
1. Successfully organize and train 200 new AECOs in intercultural and bilingual communities without
school
- 50 -



2. Successfully open 200 new PROHECO school in intercultural and bilingual communities.
3. Successfully attract and retain 200 qualified EIB teachers for lower basic education.
4. Successfully attract and retain 200 EIB teaching volunteers from the local community.
5. Successfully attract and retain 200 EIB preschool volunteers from the local community.
Project Component 3 - US$ 9.96 million
III. SCHOOL-BASED MANAGEMENT FOR RURAL COMMUNITIES
This component aims at creating an effective school organization strategy in rural areas through the
involvement of principals, teachers, parents and students to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their
schools. It adapts the school council model of PROHECO to the needs and existing organizational
structures of traditional rural schools (most of them also multigrade with one, two or three teachers
attending all 6 primary grades). School councils, in both PROHECO and traditional rural schools, will
prepare school-based improvement projects (called Proyectos Educativos de Centro, PEC), and will
manage financial transfers to support implementation of the PEC.
A.    Development of a School-Based Planning and Community Participation System in the Rural
Sector-- US$0.63 million
Intervention: This subcomponent will: (i) support the organization of school councils (to be called ADEL
-- Asociaciones de Desarrollo Educativo Local) in rural communities for traditional multigrade schools,
and (ii) train school council members to improve their school management capacity, education
improvement planning, and administration of financial transfers for school improvement activities.
Implementation Strategy: In rural communities where school services are already provided by traditional
means by the Government, a new type of school govemance will be created: Asociaci6n de Desarrollo
Educativo Local (ADEL). The ADEL would be composed not only by parents, but also by existing
teachers and students. The two key govemance roles of the ADEL, that of president and treasurer, will be
shared by both the principal (or head teacher) and parents. The following table shows the different
composition, roles and functions of AECOs (to be created under component II) and ADELs: (For detailed
review of functions and school management procedures see drafts of AECO and ADEL organization and
financial transfers management manuals already in project files.)
- 51 -



Organization of School Based Associations in the Rural Sector of Honduras
Organizational Elements                 Very Isolated Areas Without School Services Other Rural Areas Where School Services
Are Already Provided Through Traditional
Means
Legal Name of the Organization:           *  AECO   --  Asociaci6n   Educativa   *  ADEL  -- Asociaci6n de Desarrollo
Comunitaria                             Educativo Local
Member Composition:                       *  Parents                              *  Principal, Teachers, Parents and Students
Organizational Structure:                 *  Parents share roles of president, treasurer,  *  Principal and Parent share respectively
secretary, auditor and support members  the role of president and treasurer. Other
("vocales")                            parents, students or teachers share the
roles of secretary, auditor and support
members ("vocales").
Functions:                                *  Select and Pay Teachers              *  Promote parental involvement in school
*  Promote parental involvement in school    *  Monitor teacher and student attendance
*  Monitor teacher and student attendance  and performance
and performance                     *  Manage funds for non-durable school
*  Manage funds for non-durable school     materials
materials                           *  Manage funds for implementation of
*  Manage funds for implementation of      school improvement activities (PECs --
school improvement activities (PECs --  see subcomponent below)
see subcomponent below)
Indicators and Targets: The general indicators for this sub-component are:
1.     Successfully organize and train 2,800 new ADELs, and
2.      Successfully organize and train 400 new  ADEL in intercultural and bilingual communities with
existing school services.
B.      School-Based Design  and Implementation  of Education  Improvement Projects (Proyectos
Educativos de Centro - PEC)-- US$9.33 million.
Intervention: This subcomponent will: (i) support planning of school improvement activities by AECOs
(school councils of PROHECO schools) and ADELs (school councils of traditional schools) through the
development of school projects (Proyectos Educativos de Centro -- PEC); (ii) transfer financial resources
to AECOs and ADELs to carry out their PECs, and (iii) provide training on school improvement to
teachers and parents through teachers' self-help groups (Centros de Aprendizaje Docente) and workshops
for parents (Escuela para Padres).
Implementation Strategy: The Project will support the planning process of AECO and ADELs to identify
and fulfill school needs through their PECs ("Proyectos Educativos de Centro"). Since most of the Project
targeted communities are in extreme poverty, community contributions (including labor, local materials,
and some parental and teacher financial contributions) are not enough to imnplement fully school
improvement efforts. Thus, the Project will provide financial transfers to support the implementation of
the PECs. On average each AECO or ADEL will receive about US$700 to implement its PEC during its
first year of implementation and to complement community provided financial and/or in-kind resources. In
subsequent years, during the life of the Project, schools with active PECs willl receive about US$100 a
year to support continued implementation of the school activities derived from their approved school
improvement subprojects. Communities and schools with important education innovations that raise the
quality and standards of education, and that can serve as samples to others, may apply for additional funds
on a competitive basis.
- 52 -



An example of a possible PEC is presented in the table below:
Menu of Possible Investments Supported b Financial Transfers to AECOs and ADELs
Educational Improvement Objective                          Example of Elgible Expenditures
Applied and Contextualized Learning                          *  Educational materials and tools for technical, ecological, artistic
and/or extra-curricular activities.
Multicultural and Bilingual Education                        *  Multicultural events; school based activities to promote oral
history, traditional language or local costumes; etc.
Physical Education and Health                                *  Sport goods for Physical Education; primary health campaigns;
students' nutrition activities; school first aid kht, etc.
School and learning space organization.                      *  Development  of  teacher  and  student  made  didactic
materials,didactic decoration of classroom walls and spaces for
learning, etc.
Complementary Education Materials                            *  Reading Materials, small school libraries, abacus, posters, etc.
School Environment                                           *  Improvements to the teaching and learning environment.
General Guidelines                                         Non Eligible Expenditures
*  ADELs and AECO  should  continue to promote  other   *  Total use of financial transfer in only one type of activity or
contributions by the community to complement financing of their  expenditure
PEC.                                                    *  Non educational goods or services
*  All expenditures should be for school use and should provide   *  Deluxe products exceeding basic need
tangible changes in the school environment and/or pedagogical   *  Expenditure not based on consensus of the ADEL, AECO and the
practices                                                  larger school community
All ADELs (as is the case with AECOs) will receive legal status as institutions within the education sector
able to receive, manage, and monitor public funds. An account will be opened in the closest bank under
the name and legal status of the ADEL or AECO. Funds will be monitored by all ADEL or AECO
members. Bank checks will be signed by at least two of the three registered firms (the president, the
treasurer and the auditor). ADELs and AECOS will be audited on a random sample basis. So far during
the past two years, random audits of AECOs have provided evidence that public funds are managed in a
fully transparent manner and that the school associations are accountable and monitored by the
community at large. (For detailed review of functions and school management procedures see drafts of
AECO and ADEL organization and financial transfers management manuals already in project files.)
The training program for AECO and ADEL members will include strategies and tools for school
improvement, community-based  planning, procurement  and  financial management.    An  existing
mechanism to support exchange of experience and self-help by teachers called CAD (Centros de
Aprendizaje Docente) will be strengthened to support the school-based management strategies in rural
areas. No more than 10 small rural schools will conform each CAD. For parents, the Project will support
the establishment of "escuelas para padres" (parent schools), which will be supported by CAD members
and volunteer training. Some methodologies of adult training already existing in Honduras will be adapted
for the parental schools supporting the rural school-based management strategies.
Indicators and Targets: The general indicators for this sub-component are:
1.  Successfully implement 1400 PECs by AECOs
2.  Successfully implement 2,800 PECs by ADELs
3.  Successfully implement 800 PECs by ADELs or AECOs in intercultural and bilingual communities
4.  Positive results of procurement and financial audits in random  samples of AECOs and ADELs
5.  400 CADs activated to support rural school-based management activities.
6.  1,500 parental schools activated to support parents involved in school-based management activities.
Project Component 4 - US$11.23 million
IV.   STRENGTHENING  OF INSTITUTIONAL  SUPPORT  FOR  COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATION AND SCHOOL-BASED MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
This Component will support the institutional structure to guide the community participation and
- 53 -



school-based management system for the rural sector in Honduras. The strategy will make strong use of
decentralized structures created during the last four years in the education sector, including departmental
education offices and school districts. In addition, the Project will support the consolidation of the central
structures that are supporting the on-going education reforms ("transformaci6n educativa") in the country.
Also, the central coordination of PROHECO will become an integral part of the Secretariat of Education,
Departmental Offices and Districts (during the past two years, it was an independent project with its own
implementation unit). By doing so, PROHECO becomes in essence the institutionalized model for
improving access, efficiency and teaching productivity in isolated, rural areas in Honduras.
A. Central Support of the Community Participation and School Based Management System in the
Rural Sector-- US$4.1 million
Intervention: This sub-component will: (i) strengthen the central units of the SE which support school
organization and community participation in the rural sector; and (ii) support the Unidad Tecnica de
Transformacion la Educacion Nacional (UTEN), which will coordinate new education investmnent
programs and will manage the national Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign for
education reforms.
Implementation Strategy: The Project will foster support of central offices of the SE to the school-based
management strategies by financing the availability of human resources and their training as "change
agents" that champion and support community participation through proper policies, guidelines and
national events. Selected SE staff will be trained in all aspects of community organization, such as AECO
and ADELs, and in school-based improvement programs, such as PECs. These SE staff will become
"change agents" by training and gaining support for the school-based management and community
participation models from other central units in the Secretariat of Education, Ministries, Teacher Unions
and other key central education actors.
Also, a newly created unit, UTEN (Unidad de Transformaci6n Educativa), will have the faculty to
coordinate the investment programs and international assistance related to the education transformation of
the country. As such, the UTEN will house the Administrative and Financial Unit (AFI) that would
manage procurement and financial processes for both multilateral Banks (IDA and IDB), with their
respective staff assigned to each project to guarantee full time support for the administration and direct
coordination with Bank technical units. The UAF of the UTEN will guarantee adherence to the
Operational Manual and the Decentralized Operational Manuals guiding this Project's implementation
(first drafts are available for review in the Project Preparation Files). The Project will finance the UAF's
operating costs include staffing, technical assistance needs, equipment, mid-term and project-end
evaluations, and financial and procurement audits for PROHECO, EIB, CCPREB and school-based
management programs. Finally, the Project will finance the UTEN's implementation of a national IEC
campaign in support of community participation and school-based management.
Indicators and Targets: The general indicators for this sub-component are:
1. Fully formalized and active central units in the SE to support policy, guidelines and central
negotiations for community participation and school-based management.
2. A full function UTEN and its Administrative and Financial Unit with high quality staff evidenced by
extemal annual job performance reviews and evaluations.
3. Available data bases with results of monitoring reports for PROHECO, CCPREB, EIB and Transfers
for PECs
4. Accounting Systems and Aggregated financial consolidations for Project Management, Audit and
World Bank Requirements
- 54 -



5. Updated information and inventories on Project provided inputs aggregated by school, district,
department and national levels.
6. Successful Implementation of a national IEC campaign in support of community participation and
school-based management.
B. Strengthening Capacity of Education Departmental Offices to Plan Educational Needs and to
Monitor Community-Based Education Programs -- US$1.95 million
Intervention: This sub-component will: (i) support the design and implementation of an information
system, including education statistics, human resources, inventory of assets of physical resources,
financial information and school maps for the programs financed by the project (PROHECO, CCPREB,
and EIB); (ii) finance the training, acquisition and installation of equipment to improve the administrative
efficiency of the Departmental offices in monitoring and evaluating results of education programs; and (iii)
establish a financial administrative system to monitor, legalize and audit financial transfers for school
improvements channeled directly to schools, communities and education districts.
Implementation Strategy: The implementation of this subcomponent basically guarantees the monitoring
and evaluation role of departments for the three first components of the Project -- (i) curricular application
and educational materials, (ii) provision of community-based education services (PROHECO, EIB and
CCPREB), and (ii) creation and implementation of AECOs, ADEL and PECs. Four years ago, Education
Departments were created to increasingly assume functions previously held at the central level, especially
in education planning (for which education statistics need to be collected), managing personnel actions
(such as teacher leave and transfers), and monitoring and evaluation of education programs implemented
in each of the 18 departments of the country. Each department has a pedagogical unit, a teacher support
unit, a monitoring and evaluation unit, and an administrative and financial management unit. These units
would have specific monitoring and evaluation responsibilities within the three previous components of
this Project. All materials resources provided to departmental offices will request specific monitoring and
evaluation products for the PROHECO, EIB, CCPREB and school-based management programs.
Indicators and Targets: The general indicators for this sub-component are:
1. Updated statistics on school enrollment, student age population and beneficiaries by each education
program being implemented in the department
2. Monitoring reports aggregated at the departmental level for PROHECO, CCPREB, EIB and
Transfers for PECs
3. Accounting Systems and Aggregated financial consolidations of legalized expenditures from AECOs
and ADELs in the Department
4. Updated information on education inputs and inventories by aggregated by school, district and
departmental levels.
C.    Strengthening Capacity of Education Districts to Support Curricular Applications and
Community and School-Based Management - USS5.18 million
Intervention: This sub-component will: (i) support small infrastructure needs (approximately US$10,000
per district) of the 86 school districts that have the largest percentage of rural, intercultural and bilingual
schools; (ii) provide equipment (computers, furniture and vehicles) to support these districts' new role in
the promotion, organization, training and technical assistance activities for community participation and
school-based management; and (iii) strengthen the school district professional teams by training them as
"change agents" at the district level to support multigrade teaching, intercultural and bilingual education,
community involvement and school-based management.
- 55 -



Implementation Strategy: The implementation of this subcomponent guarantees the support of school
districts for the three first Project components - (i) curricular and pedagogical application, (ii) provision
of community-based education services (PROHECO) in hard-to-reach rural areas and ethnic communities,
and (iii) adaptation of school council in traditional rural schools (ADEL) and implementation of
school-based improvement projects (PECs). Each school district has a director (Director Distrital) and at
least three technical officer. School districts staff are motivated, in close contact to schools (although with
limited means) and willing to improve the services they provide to their communities, especially the
poorest and most isolated. However, each school district supervises from 100 to 300 schools and each
technical officer manages from 30 to 50 schools. To support human resources capacity at the district
level, the Project will finance district level change agents in school-based management, community
organization and the application of multigrade teaching, EIB, and preschool education.
Also, the institutional assessment during Project preparation identified the lack of financial and material
resources at the district level. Thus, the Project supports to close this gap. These material and financial
inputs will enable districts to better support the community-based organization, training and technical
assistance required of their schools and communities.  During the first year or Project operation each
technical officer (or district change agent) will be responsible for the promotion, organization, training and
technical assistance of at least 5-10 ADEL and/or AECO.
Indicators and Targets: The general indicators for this sub-component are:
1. Small infrastructure improvements (e.g., additional office space, expanded meeting rooms, and
rehabilitated facilities) and equipment in at least 86 school districts.
2. Properly formed and trained district teams including a district director and at least 3 district technical
officers (or change agents).
3. Positive comments by community leaders, AECO and ADEL members on the support provided by
their district director and their respective technical officer.
4. Implemented systems and collection of data to feed educational statistics and input inventories to be
aggregated at the departmental level.
- 56 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
HONDURAS: HNICOMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
Local       Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million    US $million   US $million
I. Local Application of National Curriculum                  5.32          4.39         9.71
A. Validation by Rural Teachers of the National Curriculum
for Preschool and Lower Basic Education (grades 1-6)
B. Effective Application of Curriculum and Appropriate
Educational Materials for Preschool and Primary Rural Schools
C. Student Learning Assessment and Education Quality
Evaluations
D. In-Service Teacher Development and Training Programs
11. Community-Based Provision of Preschool and Basic        14.49          0.00         14.49
Education Services
A. Strengthening and Expansion of the Honduras' Community
Education Program (PROHECO)
B. Creation of Intercultural and Bilingual Schools with the
PROHECO Model
III. School-Based Management for Rural Communities           9.96          0.00          9.96
A. Development of a School-Based Planning and Community
Participation System
B. School-Based Design and Implementation of Education
Improvement Projects
IV. Strenthening of Institutional Support for Conimunity     8.20          3.03         11.23
Participation and School-Based Management Programs
A. Central Support of the Community Based and
School-Based Management System in the Rural Sector
B. Strengthening Capacity of Education Departmental Offices
for Education Planning and Monitoring Community-Based
Education Programs
C. Strengthening Capacity of Education Districts to Support
Curricular Applications and Community and School-Based
Management
Total Baseline Cost                                         37.97          7.42        45.39
Physical Contingencies                                      2.41                        2.41
Price Contingencies                                        0.00           0.00          0.00
- 57 -



Total Project Costs                   40.38      |     7.42           47.80
Total Financing Required                     40.38            7.42           47.80
Local         Foreign           Total
Projet Cost By Category                        US $million    US $million      US $million
Works                                                                  0.95             0.00            0.95
Goods (including printing services)                                    3.19             4.42            7.61
Consultants' Services                                                  3.78             2.00            5.78
Training                                                               5.70              1.00           6.70
AECO-PROHECO School Transfers                                         12.40             0.00           12.40
AECO Grants                                                            3.40             0.00            3.40
ADEL Grants                                                            5.00             0.00            5.00
Project Incremental Operating Costs                                    5.96             0.00            5.96
Total Project Costs         40.38             7.42           47.80
Total Financing Required          40.38              7.42          47.80
[dentifiable taxes andduties are O (US$n) andthe total project cost, net oftaxes. is 47.8 (US$m). TherefoTe, the project cost sharing ratio is S6.82%of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 58 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
HONDURAS: HN/COMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
1.      Introduction
This annex summarizes the economic evaluation of the Honduras Community Education Project; considers
the sector context for the project, drawing on the findings of the on-going PER study; looks at the
dimensioning of the project; reports the methodology and findings of cost benefit analysis for four of the
main interventions; and summarizes the main conclusions and makes recommendations for the SE strategy
of the project.
2.      Sector context
Data collected during the initial stages of preparation of the World Bank's Public Expenditure Review for
Honduras highlighted the following problems in primary education: (i) most poor children go to school, but
the system fails them and half of them drop out without completing primary; (ii) 7% of children of primary
education age, in mostly hard to reach rural areas, are still out of school.
According to household survey, 93% of all children aged 7 through 11 attend school (Table 1). Even
among the bottom quintile of households, 89% of children in this age reange attend school. However, only
70% of the cohort aged 15 in 1999 had passed 6th grade. Those failing are, overwhelmingly, the poor. In
the bottom quintile, only 50% of the cohort aged 15 in 1999 had graduated from primary education,
compared with 87% in the top quintile. The PER study concluded that an important cause of failure to
complete primary education is late entry, due in part to access difficulties in remote areas, leading to
children being overage and dropping out when they enter adolescence, before completing 6th grade.
Secondly, 7% of children in the primary age range are still out of school. The estimated number of 7 to 11
year old out of school in March 1999 was 56,101, equivalent of an average need of 1870 classrooms. Part
of this is due to drop-outs following grade failure, and part is due to continuing access problems in remote
areas of the country.
Table I - Estimated number of children out of school, March 1999
Age          7      8    9    10    11  Average
Quintile            % matriculated
I (poorest)   84    89   90   91    91    89
2            89    93   94   94    93    93
3            86    94   94   93    88    91
4            92    99   97   98    94    96
5 (richest)    98    97   97   98    98    98
Total        90    94   94   95    93    93
Equivalent
Number of children out of school   Total  sections
I (poorest)  5,419  3,726 3,387 3,048  3,048  18,628   621
2           3,726  2,371 2,032 2,032  2,371   12,531   418
3           4,742  2,032 2,032 2,371  4,064  15,241   508
4           2,425  303  910  606  1,819   6,064   202
5 (richest)    606   910  910  606   606    3,638   121
Total      16,918 9,341 9,270 8,664 11,909  56,101  1,870
Urban                                     11,220    374
Rural                                     44,881   1,496
Notes. Based on official population projections for 1999 and March 1999 EPMPM data.
- 59 -



In response to these problems, the Government, with the support of the prior IDA-supported education
project (PROMEB), established the PROHECO program, with a mandate to improve primary education
access in remote rural communities.
As well as expanding coverage in remote areas, the PROHECO model aims to attract and retain teachers
and to improve the attendance fo both teachers and students by involving the parents and community in
opening and supporting the school. Local community associations called Asociaciones Educativas
Comunitarias (AECOs) run the PROHECO schools. Parents have a decisive role in the administration of
the school, including the hiring of the teacher. The SE assigns the AECO with legal status to carry out
these functions, using delegated authority from the President of the Republic. Public funds are transfered to
the AECO to pay for the salaries of the PROHECO teaching staff. Parents donate their time and effort for
the administration of the school, so that formally these are "semi-official" schools - the first time this has
existed at primary level.
PROHECO teachers are paid according to the Estatuto del Docente, and since they are mostly new
graduates at the bottom of the scale, their monthly pay is just over L.3,000 (about $200). Unlike
mainstream SE staff, they do not go onto the SE payroll or acquire a "plaza" through an acuerdo
executivo, which thereafter is theirs by right. The PROHECO post belongs to the community and the
teachers are contracted by the AECO, which receives a transfer of public funds in order to pay them. To
date (October 2000) 809 PROHECO schools have been created, covering just over 20,000 children.
Building on the experience and lessons learned of the PROHECO project, the Community-Based Education
Project aims to improve the quality and relevance of preschool and lower basic education (Grades 1-6) for
targeted poor and traditionally excluded communities. The project components include: locally developed
quality improvement strategies for pre-school and basic education with emphasis on the needs of poor and
rural populations; strengthening and expansion of community based preschool and basic education
(PROHECO); and strengthening of departmental and district level support and supervision.
Main Assumptions:
School Based Interventions. The specific community and school-based interventions to be financed by
the project are the following:
1.    Improve educational quality by promoting schoo-based quality improvement strategies for
preschool and basic education, working with AECOs (in the PROHECO model) and with Asociaciones de
Desarrollo Educativo Local (ADELs), in "official" schools. The AECOs and ADELs will be involved in
the development of School Improvement Plans and will administer resources to provide additional support
for teachers. In total 3,200 schools will be supported in this way. Within this total, 400 schools will be in
indigenous communities, where the support will be geared to establishing bilingual intercultural education
(Educaci6n Intercultural Bilingue, EIB). There will also be 800 ladino AECOs, and 2000 ladino ADELs.
The estimated total cost of this component is US$4.15 million.
2.    The creation of 1200 new pre-grade sections using a community-based model utilizing local
teaching volunteers. The estimated total cost of this component is US$4.3 million.
3.    Creating 800 additional PROHECO schools (896 sections). This will include new schools in rural
communities with access problems, and the transfer to the PROHECO model of failing traditional schools
in such areas. Within this total 200 will be EIB schools in indigenous communities. The estimated total cost
of this component is US$10.6 million.
- 60 -



Table 2 summarizes the project's planned interventions at school level. It should be noted that the project
also plans national level activities to strengthen the curricular application (through multigrade strategies
and contextualisation of learning) and instructional materials for rural schools, to strengthen departmental
and district support to community-based education, and to develop methodologies for EIB.  The
Cost-Benefit analysis is only done for the school-based management interventions, which is considered the
most important innovation of these project. The other national level interventions, whose cost totals US$32
million, are not analyzed in the cost-benefit analysis presented here.
Table 2 - Principal planned school - level interventions for CBE
Project
No of schools per year
Accum. Students
Year: 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005  total  (total)
1.Strengthening existing schools
AECOs                 15  62  423  300   0    800 28,800
ADELs                 15 156 1,070 759   0   2,000 92,000
EIB                   15  32  210  143   0    400 24,000
Sub total             45 250 1,703 1,202   0   3,200 144,800
2.Preschool provision  18 150  601 431   0   1,200 30,000
3.Creating new schools
PROHECO Ladino        10 200  200  190   0    600 18,000
PROHECO EIB            5  50  100  45   0    200 12,000
Sub total             15 250  300 235   0    800 30,000
4.Total                60 500 2,003 1,437   0   4,000204,800
The demand for new rural sections. In 1999, the number of children aged seven to eleven who were out
of school was just over 56,000. Of this total, 44,881 were in rural areas (Table 1). This estimate predates
the creation of 809 PROHECO schools in rural areas during 1999 -2000, which extended coverage in rural
areas to 20,000 more children. This would suggest that, nationwide, roughly 24,880 children are still out of
school in rural areas.
The creation of 800 new PROHECO schools (including 200 EIB schools with 2 sections each) will result
in 1,000 new multigrade sections (classroom) of 30 students each creating approximately 30,000 additional
places. This is apparently more than the needed number to get to 100% rural coverage; however, some of
the new PROHECO schools will take over from failing traditional schools in the project's agreed area of
influence (remote rural communities) and some margin for natural increments in coverage are considered.
Cost benefit analysis. The economic evaluation of the project looked at the costs and benefits of the
planned school-based interventions to establish their economic rate of return. Cost benefit analysis was
carried out to establish the rate of return for four scenarios:
1. Where a PROHECO school is built enabling children who were otherwise out of school to get primary
education.
2. Where a PROHECO school replaces a failing traditional school.
- 61 -



3. Support to the establishment of a preschool class through the community-based volunteer model.
4. Support to the establishment of school-based management committees (ADELs) in traditional schools.
Benefits: In each of the scenarios, the benefit stream is estimated as the impact of the project's intervention
on the future income stream of the cohort.
Costs:
1. In the first scenario, the increase in future income from improved educational attainment is set against
the costs of providing the education (including both providing the school building and the revenue
costs) and the earnings foregone during schooling.
2. In the second scenario, the outcome depends on the difference of the cost of providing schooling under
PROHECO and traditional provision, coupled with the differences in educational outcomes between the
two and their impact on incomes.
3. In the third scenario, the critical consideration is the balance between the cost of the preschool year and
the impact of preschool education on primary education outcomes, which in turn feed through into
changed income streams.
4. In the final scenario the question is whether the cost of grants for school improvement to ADELs are
justified by the resulting benefits in the form of improved performance and outcomes and the associated
income.
Cost-Effectiveness indicators:
Data and methodology
Cost estimates: In each case the analysis is limited to the fiscal costs of the project. No effort was made to
estimate private costs, apart from the opportunity cost of time in school (which is treated as a difference in
the benefit).
For scenarios I and 2, PROHECO provided data on the real revenue and capital cost of its programs. The
cost of alternative traditional programs was estimated based on Secretary of Education (SEP) data. For
traditional provision a 10% mark-up was applied for central administrative costs; for PROHECO this was
reduced to 5% as personnel administration is undertaken by the AECO, not SEP. Total revenue costs per
student-year in traditional schools were estimated at L.1,474 (a figure scarcely sufficient to pay for the
teacher's salary). In PROHECO, they are estimated at L. 1,429. The capital cost of a one classroom school
building is L. 1,273,000 (FHIS data); it was supposed that this would have a residual value of 80% at the
end of 6 years (i.e. the building would have a lifetime of 30 years).
For scenario 3, the additional cost due to the project is the cost of transfers to support preschool sections.
The planned transfers are L. 13,000 per year as an incentive grant to the volunteer teacher, plus L.6,500 for
teaching materials, giving a total of L. 19,500 per year for a section of 25; that is, L.780 per student/year.
For scenario 4 the cost includes the training and manuals needed to set up the ADELs (L.3,000) plus the
annual transfer to the ADELs under the CBE project, budgeted at L.11,550. The average number of
students per ADEL is estimated at 36 (based on 88% single section schools and 12% two-section schools
and an average section size of 32). This gives an additional cost of L.321 per student under the ADEL
model, compared with traditional provision.
Benefits: In all the scenarios the estimated benefit of the project is based on projected increases in future
incomes arising from improved primary education attainment. The EPHPM (March 1999) was analyzed to
establish the average labor income of all persons in the workforce whose educational level is up to 6th
- 62 -



grade of primary; those who have completed any years of secondary education are excluded from the
analysis.
The results of this analysis are reported in Table 3. They show, for example, that a person aged between
20 and 24 will earn on average L.9,456 a year if they have zero education; while if they have completed
primary they will earn L.16,960, a difference of 79%. The difference generally rises through time; for a
person in their late-thirties it is 112%; for someone in their late forties, it is 126%. The same database was
used to extrapolate backwards from earnings of 10 to 14 year olds in order to estimate earnings for children
of 8 and 9 years of age (no data are registered in the survey for these ages).
Table 3 - Average annual labor income of employed
and self - employed people by age group and level of
primary attainment
Completed years of primary education  Difference
*  Age  -        1-2      3-5       6      6vs.0 -
Annual income in Lempiras        %
10- 14       5,315    4,915    6,209    7,744    46
15- 19       8,992   10,142    9,446    11,615   29
20 - 24      9,456   12,744   13,976    16,960   79
25 - 29     12,421   15,936   13,073    17,972   45
30 - 34     11,615   18,055   16,442   21,052   81
35 - 39     11,047   15,136   18,401   23,438   112
40-44       12,078   19,244   19,949   25,211   109
45 - 49     11,635   16,879   24,322   26,317   126
50- 54      12,539   19,739   21,158   31,250   149
55 - 59     10,050   18,763   24,420   28,244   181
60 - 64      8,330   12,443   14,918   19,684   136
Total       10,948   15,827   16,536   19,062    74
Source: EPHPM, March 1999. Only individuals with labor income (either
from employment or self employment)
Shadow prices: Since the exchange rate is not severely distorted, no shadow-price conversions were made
to either the cost or benefit streams.
Modeling improved primary outcomes: A model was established for a cohort of 30 children, using flow
rates from traditional schools in rural parts of the departrnent of Lempira as the benchmark for the study.
Table 4 shows the flow rates at each grade level and the results in terms of the educational status of the
cohort. The existing flow rate leads to only 71% of the children who originally matriculated in first grade
graduating from primary education. A reduction of 33% in the gap between baseline performance and a
flow rate of 100% would lead to 83% of the cohort graduating from 6th grade; and a 66% reduction of the
gap would lead to 93% graduating.
- 63 -



Table 4 - How improved flow rates increase
the % of children graduating from primary
Flow rate
% of gap between baseline and
1000/o that is closed
Grade        0%      33%     66%
1         77%      85%     92%
2         83%      89%      94%
3         86%      91%      95%
4         90%      93%      97%
5         91%      94%      97%
6         93%      95%      98%
%passing 6th grade  71%   83%      93%
No data yet exist on the impact of the project's community-based methodologies on efficiency and
effectiveness in primary education (i.e. on pass-through rates). Similarly, no data exist on the impact of
pre-grade attendance on the probability of passing first grade. Therefore, the analysis modeled the rate of
return in order to show what ranges of values would result in an acceptable rate of retum.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Case where PROHECO establishes a new school: The IRR for establishing a new PROHECO school
where none presently exists is 11.0%, even if there is no improvement in the flow rate. This shows that
even at present productivity rates, primary schools are reasonable investments.
Table 5 - Economic evaluation of a new PROHECO school
Improvement in flow rate/I
High, zero
building
Zero   Moderate  High     cost
NPV, 12%         -96,679  -87,262  -77,693   67,371
NPV, 10%         117,475  146,413  172,635  308,843
NPV, 5%         1,812,964 1,997,373 2,154,823 2,259,687
IRR               11.0%    11.1%    11.3%    12.8%
Note: 1/ A Moderate improvement means that 33% of the gap between
baseline and 100% flow rates is closed; High, that 66% of the gap is closed.
The analysis also shows that increasing productivity doesn't make much difference to the IRR in this case.
With a moderate improvement in flow rates, the IRR is 11.1% and with a high improvement, the IRR is
11.3%. The reason is that the marginal difference in the earnings stream is offset in part by increased costs
(due to more student-years of education being supplied). The additional benefit does more than offset the
marginal difference in cost, tweaking up the IRR slightly as a result. However, overall, the outcome is still
dominated by the IRR on the basic project.
The IRR is affected by the high up-front cost of building the school classroom; when this is removed from
the analysis, the IRR in the "high improvement" scenario rises to 12.8%.
- 64 -



Table 6 - Sensitivity analysis of higher income
increases for the IRR of a new PROHECO school
Increase of impact on wages of
completing primary, compared with
EMHPM data:
0%    25%    50%   100%
Flow rate improvement             IRR
Zero                  11.0%  11.6%  12.1%  12.8%
Moderate              11.1%  11.7%  12.2%  12.9%
High                  11.3%  11.9%  12.3%  13.0%
Sensitivity analysis shows that the rate of return on the project would be increased if the impact on earnings
of increased primary attainment were higher (Table 6). If earnings were increased by 25% more than they
are at present, the rate of return (under all the flow rate scenarios) increases by 0.6%. This suggests that
the quality of education and its "fit" with the needs of the labor market are important considerations.
Case where PROHECO replaces a traditional school: This scenario, even if PROHECO does not
improve the flow rate, the project has a positive economic value due to the cost saving. This arises because
PROHECO's operating costs are a little lower than those of traditional provision, and in this case, no new
building is needed. The NPV with a discount rate of 12% is positive at L.5,171.
When PROHECO produces a high improvement in the flow rate, the NPV (12%) rises to L.6,852. In this
case the IRR is 19.4%.
In this context, it is important to indicate that, to date, flow rates in PROHECO schools have not been
superior to those registered in traditional schools. This underlines the importance of the complementary
initiatives to improve flow rates and educational outcomes in both traditional and PROHECO schools,
which are contemplated in the new project's other interventions.
Establishing a preschool year: The impact here depends on the improvement in flow rates at first grade
due to the child having been exposed to a pre-grade year.
Table 7 - Economic evaluation of a PROHECO school
taking over from a failing traditional school
Improvement in flow rate/ I
Zero       Moderate    High
NPV, 12%         5,171        5,519      6,852
NPV, 10%         5,479        8,076      11,415
NPV, 5%          6,393        23,967    40,171
IRR            Undefined    Undefined    19.4%
Note: 1/ A Moderate improvement means that 33% of the gap between
baseline and 100% flow rates is closed; High, that 66% of the gap is
closed.
As already commented, at present no empirical data exist that would allow us to predict this impact. All
that can be done is to show what ranges of improvement would result in acceptable returns.
- 65 -



Table 8 summarizes the results of the analysis. A considerable hike in first grade flow rates would be
needed to make the pregrade investment profitable. If the first grade flow rate improves slightly, the IRR is
positive at 5.7%; a moderate improvement reports an IRR of 8.7% and a high improvement, 10%. It is
recommended that the SE system of the project monitor the improvements in "with pregrade" schools
compared with "without pregrade" schools to quantify the real impact.
Table 8 - Economic evaluation of adding a preschool
section
Improvement in flow rate in first grade/I
Very Slight   Slight  Moderate   High
NPV,12%       -20,286    -19,707   -19,707   -15,171
NPV, 10%      -19,208    -17,213   -17,213    306
NPV, 5%       -7,818      6,229    6,229    134,752
IRR            3.8%       5.7%     8.7%      10.0%
Note: 1/ A Very Slight improvement means that 5% of the gap between
baseline and 100% flow rates is closed; Slight, 10%; Moderate, 33% and
High, 66%.
Support to ADELs: Here, the expenditure (estimated in L.344 per child per year) is incurred continually as
the child goes through primary school. The expected impact is improved flow rates throughout this period.
Table 9 - Economic evaluation of support to ADELs
Improvement in flow rate/i
Very Slight Slight Moderate High
NPV, 12%             -34,741  -33,834 -29,507  -23,153
NPV, 10%             -34,700  -31,147 -15,271   5,202
NPV, 5%              -20,028   5,859  118,754 256,603
IRR                   3.3%     5.4%    8.8%    10.3%
Note: 1/ A Very Slight improvement means that 5% of the gap between
baseline and 100% flow rates is closed; Slight, 10%; Moderate, 33% and
High, 66%.
As in the case of the preschool intervention, no empirical data exist that would allow us to predict this
impact at present. All that can be done is to show what ranges of improvement would result in acceptable
rates of return.
The pattem of retums on this intervention is similar to that for pregrade classes. Under the scenarios of
Moderate and High improvements in the flow rate, the IRR is respectively 8.8% and 10.3%. It is
recommended that the M&E system of the project monitor the improvements in "with ADEL" schools
compared with "without ADEL" schools to quantify the real impact.
Summary of conclusions and recommendations for M&E strategy: This study of the economic return
to the Honduras Community Based Primary Education Project has considered the project's "fit" with the
main sector strategy issues in primary education, has looked at the dimensioning of the proposed
interventions, and has modeled the conditions under which the proposed investments would have acceptable
rates of return.
- 66 -



Sector strategy and dimensioning of the project: The project addresses important sector issues in primary
coverage, efficiency and effectiveness and is, in general, well dimensioned. However a reservation is
expressed about the dimensioning of the component to establish 800 more new PROHECOs in rural
communities. Household survey data suggest that there may not be enough demand to absorb this quantity
of resources in new schools in rural areas. It is recommended that the project should be allowed to finance
the transfer of failed traditional schools to the new model, and that the project should be allowed to
intervene in urban marginal communities with coverage difficulties. If these are allowed, it should be
possible to use all the programmed resources effectively.
Economic rates of return: In the absence of historical data for their impact on primary education
efficiency and flow rates, it is not possible to make firm ex-ante predictions of the IRR of the project's
planned interventions. However, it is possible to consider whether the improvements in performance needed
to generate an acceptable IRR seem to be reasonable. In general, all the interventions are found to have the
possibility of acceptable rates of return.
*   Where no school presently exists, the rate of return on establishing a PROHECO is 11%, even if the
efficiency is no better than traditional primary efficiency in Honduras.
*   Where a PROHECO school replaces a traditional one, the economic return is positive under all
scenarios, because PROHECO's unit costs are a little lower than those of a traditional school. If the
PROHECO school achieves a high improvement in flow rates, the IRR is 19%.
*   The IRR on support to pregrade classes depends on the degree of improvement in flow rates at first
grade that results from this intervention. With a high improvement, there is an IRR of 10% but if flow
rates do not improve the IRR is below the acceptable range.
*   The IRR on support to ADELs depends on the improvement in flow rates across the board in the
primary grades. With high improvements, ADELs report an IRR of 10.3% but if flow rates do not
improve, the IRR is below the acceptable range.
Recommendationsfor M&E strategy: The data generated in the past by UMCE (performance in objective
tests of Spanish and Math at 3rd and 6th grade) are not sufficient to answer important questions related to
the new project's impact.
It is recommended that the M&E strategy for the project monitor the flow rates in all schools supported by
the project and in a matching set of samples of otherwise-similar schools that are not benefiting from the
project's interventions. Data should be gathered at all grade levels both for supply side indicators such as
teacher attendance and the availability of materials, and for outcome indicators including student
attendance, drop out and promotion rates. This should be done in the framework of a carefully designed
sample study of school performance under different project interventions, using matching "with project"
and "without project" schools. If necessary, resources should be shifted from the study of objective test
performance to finance this.
An interim report should be generated at the end of year 2. This will allow the real impact of the project's
interventions on the flow rate to be determined. The results of this analysis should be used to optimize
resource distribution during years 3 to 5 of implementation.
- 67 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
HONDURAS: HNICOMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
The context
Trends of public expenditure on education. Although Honduras is a small country with 6 million
population and a GDP per capita of $730, it has devoted a substantial and growing portion of public
resources to education. In 1999, total public expenditure on education amounted to 5.2 percent of GDP, or
21.4 percent of total government expenditure. Between 1990 and 1999, education spending increased faster
(55 percent) than either the GDP (27 percent) or government expenditure (32 percent). (Figure 1). Over
this period, between 45 and 50 percent of the total education expenditure was spent on primary education,
while about 14 to 18 percent was on secondary education and 25 to 30 percent on universities (Figure 2).
The large share of expenditure on primary education contributed to the high enrollment rates in primary
education.
Figure 1: Trends of GDP, Government Expenditure
and Education Expenditure
In Constant 1990 Lempiras
20000
150 0v                 
E
= 10000                  .2.
X 5000            S              w =
1990 1991 1992 1993 994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
l-- Education -U- Total expenditure    GOP
Figure 2: Intra-sectoral Allocation of Public
Expenditure on Education by Level
60
50  4    ~     ~     ~    , 
u30 -   ---Secondary
0 20                                       Universities
10
0.
ta~~~4           4N 1A 4 "2t; t\t0t
Between 1990 and 1999, enrollment in primary education grew by 21 percent and that in secondary
education by 18 percent (Figure 3). Per student spending in real terms increased in secondary education,
- 68 -



but declined in primary education during the middle of the decade, although it recovered towards the end.
(Figure 4).
Figure 3. Enrollment in Primary and Secondary
Education, 1990-99
1200
 1000 -
*  800-
.  600
u 400
  200
z    O 0
90 1991 1992 993 994 W95 996 997 1998 S99
| + Primary --Secondary I
Figure 4: Per Student Spending In Constant 1990
Lempiras, 1990-99
1000
800
.52600                               -.  Primary
E 400                                 -4--Secondary
200 
0
Projected growth of the school-age population and enrollment. At present, about 44 percent of
Honduras's population are under the age of 15, and 65 percent are under 25. This means that a large share
of the population needs education services. In 1999, gross enrollment ratios were 38 percent in pre-school,
107 percent in primary education, and 47 percent in secondary education. But these ratios encompassed
over-aged students and repeaters. Net enrollment ratio in primary education, which indicates the percentage
of the relevant age-cohort in specific levels of education, was only 90 percent. It was unclear what the net
enrollment of pre-school and secondary education was. To expand access and improve quality in future
would require additional resources over and above the current level of spending. Although the population
growth rates are projected to decline from 2.42 percent in 2000-2004, 2.07 percent in 2005-2009, and 1.82
percent in 2010-2015, the total school-age population will still increase modestly in absolute numbers.
Between 2000 and 2015, the pre-school population of 4-6 year-olds is projected to increase from 567,000
to 575,000, the primary-school-age population of 7-12-year-olds from 1.038 million to 1.162 million, and
the secondary-school-age population of 13-to-18-year-olds from 934,000 to 1.160 million. Unless public
spending on education will increase in real terms in the next 15 years to keep pace with the growth of
school-age population, per student spending will decline and the current enrollment ratios cannot be
- 69 -



maintained.
Figure 5 presents the projected age groups of 4-6, 7-12, and 13-18 from 2000 to 2015, as well as the
projected enrollment in pre-primary, primary and secondary education. The enrollment projection in the
pre-primary level was based on the actual data of 2000 and the historical annual growth rate of 11.4
percent in this level. At this rate of increase, the gross enrollment in pre-school would reach only 42 percent
from 2001 through 2015. As regards primary education, enrollment was projected to maintain the gross
ratio of 109, taking into account the repeaters and over-aged students in the system. With respect to
secondary education, the projection used the historical growth rate of 4.7 percent at this level. At this rate
of increase, gross secondary enrollment would increase to 56 percent in 15 years' time. In summary,
interventions are needed to accelerate the rates of increase in enrollment in pre-primary and secondary
enrollment. The project provides such an intervention for raising pre-school enrollment.
Figure 5: Projected School Age Population and
Enrollment by Level, 2000-2015
1400
1200 *
800
o 600
S400 E?
- 200   ~ -  -  -  '  
t  o z - )  O z >    CD   CD Car D   ai 'o   CD    CD  {D; 
2    o c    o- N  N  ,  v N (W <    N N
- 4-6 age group -4-7-2 age group    1-18 age group
Pre-primary   )- Primary   -+--Secondary
Fiscal Impact of the Project
The analysis of the fiscal impact of the project was conducted within the above mentioned context.
It worked out three scenarios: high, medium, and low economic growth (Tables 1, 2, and 3). All three
scenarios used the actual, 1999 data of the GDP, government expenditure and expenditure of Secretariat of
Education (SE), and the enrollment data of 1999 and 2000 as the bases for projection. These scenarios
differed in the growth rates of the GDP. While all three scenarios accepted the GDP growth rates of 5
percent between 2000 and 2001, the high growth scenario assumed the continuation of 5 percent growth
between 2002 and 2015, the medium growth scenario, 3.5 percent, and the low growth scenario, 2 percent.
All three assumed the government expenditure as a percentage of GDP to be 24 percent between 2000 and
2002, and 22.5 percent from 2003 through 2015. The three scenarios also differed in the share of SE
budget as a percentage of total goverm-nent budget. The assumptions are presented at the bottom of the
tables and will not be repeated in the text. The budget for pre-primary, primary and secondary education
was derived from per student spending multiplied by proiected enrollment in public education at these
levels. The basis of enrollment projection was the projected growth of the school-aged population. The
education budget of each subsector was assumed to grow at the rates of the GDP of the respective
scenarios.
The counterpart funds of the project were based on the figures in the PAD. The recurrent cost to be
financed after the life of the project include (i) 920 new PROHECO basic education teachers at a cost of
57,000 lempiras (52.44 million) each a year; (ii) 800 new preschool volunteers at a cost of 13,000 lempiras
(10.4 million) each a year; and (iii) 200 EIB volunteers at a cost of 13,000 lempiras each year (2.6
- 70 -



million). The total is 65.4 million lempiras or US$4.4 million. To give an additional level of comfort, this
analysis took into account the new IDB Secondary Education Project's counterpart fund during the project
and recurrent cost financing afterwards. The IDB credit is $20 million for four years and counterpart fund
is $2.6 million. Since the IDB Project mostly finances capacity building, the recurrent cost is expected to
finance only 200 new teachers at an estimated 36,000 lempiras per person per year.
The projections show substantial differences among three scenarios in the amount of GDP,
government budget, SE budget, and share of each subsector within the SE budget. However, the
counterpart funds and the recurrent costs after the end of the project represent only a small share in all of
the scenarios.
The intra-sectoral allocation of the SE budget in 1999 was 2.5 percent to pre-primary, 40 percent to
primary, and 18.5 percent to secondary, totaling 61 percent. Tertiary education accounted for about 20
percent of the SE budget, while administration and other programs took up the rest. Table 1 shows that in
the high growth scenario, the primary education budget would be reduced from 40 percent of the SE budget
to 22 percent between 1999 and 2015. The pre-primary budget would rise from 2.5 percent to 3.1 percent
in 2008, and then fall to 2.4 percent by 2015. The secondary education would decline from 18.5 percent of
the SE budget to 16.5 percent. In total, the budget for these three subsectors would be reduced from 61
percent to 41 percent of the SE budget in 15 years' time. GOH financing of the World Bank Project will
increase from 0.2 to 4.4 percent of the combined pre-primary and primary education budget within 15
years, and that of the IDB Project will decline from 1.3 to 0.7 percent of the secondary education budget.
Together, the two Projects would increase from 0.3 to 1.2 percent of the total budget of the Ministry of
Education between 2001 and 2015. As long as the higher education budget remains within the range of
20 to 25 percent, there would be additional resources to finance the recurrent cost after the life of the
project, improve quality, and expand pre-school and secondary education.
Table 2 displays the medium growth scenario. As the total education budget is smaller, the budget
shares of pre-primary, primary, and secondary become higher, accounting for 2.9, 28, and 20 percent by
2015, respectively. Together, the budget for these subsectors represents 49 percent of total SE budget, a
reduction from 61 percent in 1999. The share of GOH counterpart funds and recurrent cost after the end of
the World Bank and IDB Projects would slightly increase from 0.3 percent in 2001 to 1.4 percent of the SE
budget. There will still be additional resources to expand and improve education, if tertiary education stays
within bound. Also, because GOH financing of the World Bank and the 1DB projects represents only a
relatively small portion of the budget of each subsector, the additional shares as a percentage of SE budget
changed very little.
Table 3 presents the low growth scenario. As the overall education budget shrinks further, the shares
of pre-school, primary education, and secondary education will increase to 3.2, 30, and 22 percent,
respectively, by 2015. These represent 55 percent of total SE budget. The share of GOH counterpart funds
and recurrent cost after the end of the World Bank and IDB Projects would slightly increase from 0.3
percent in 2001 to 1.6 percent of the SE budget. While the available resources would be much more
limited, if higher education stays within the range of 20-25 percent of the SE budget, there would still be
sufficient resources to cover the recurrent cost of both World Bank and IDB projects, and to finance limited
expansion and irnprovement of education. Therefore, the projects are sustainable even in a low growth
scenario.
- 71 -



Table 1: Fiscal Impact of the Project: High Economic Growth Scenario
GOP of         Central Govt.   MOE Budget  Pre-pnmary  Primary       Secondary    Pre- Primar Secon GOH fund  GOH fund GOH GOH GOH
prim. y     dary  for                 fund fund fund
____________  __________                                           ~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as  for
Year  Honduras        Budget                      budget      education    education     budg as %   as %   World Bank for IDB    % of as % WB
budget       budget       et as                                  pre- of   &
of   of    of    Project    Project   &    Seco as %
MOE MOE  MOE                          prim  ndar of
1999   76,563,000,000  18,468,600,000  3,300,000,000   83,900,000  1,330,200,000   609,200,000 2.5%  40.3%  18.5%
2000   80,391,150,000  19,293,876,000  4,826,500,000  133,300,000  1,487,500,000   617,600,000 2.8%  30.8%  12.8%
2001   84,410,707,500  20,258,569,800  4,963,349,601  143,352,153  1,601,616,458   683,434,932 2.9%  32.3%  13.8%   4,073,160 8,625,000 0.2%  1.3%  0.3%
2002   88,631,242,875  21,271,498,290  5,211,517,081  146,122,126  1,627,041,338   712,148,962 2.8%  31.2%  13.7%  29,407,170 8,625,000 1.7% 1.2% 0.7%
2003   93,062,805,019  20,939,131,129  5,130,087,127  148,942,213  1,649,159,617   742,052,404 2.9%  32.1%  14.5%  32,033,310 8,625,000 1.8%  1.2% 0.8%
2004   97,715,945,270  21,986,087,686  5,166,730,606  151,813,218 1,666,526,456   773,193,632 2.9%  32.3%  15.0%  23,493,180 8,625,000 1.3% 1.1% 0.6%
2005  102,601,742,533  23,085,392,070  5.194,213,216  154,955,751  1,685,870,067   809,533,732 3.0%  32.5%  15.6%  23,493,180 7,200,000 1.3% 0.9% 0.6%
2006  107,731,829,660  24,239,661,673 5,332,725,568  158,163,335  1,702,237,737   847,581,818 3.0%  31.9%  15.9%  65,440,000 7,344,000 3.5% 0.9%  1.4%
2007  113,118,421,143  25,451,644,757 5,344,845,399  161,437,316  1,714,141,498   887,418,163 3.0%  32.1%  16.6%  66,748,800 7,490,880 3.6% 0.8%  1.4%
2008  118,774,342,200  26,724,226,995  5,612,087,669  164,779,069  1,721,581,348   929,126,817 2.9%  30.7%  16.6%  68,083,776 7,640,698 3.6%  0.8%  1.3%
2009  124,713,059,310  28,060,438,345  5,892,692,052  168,189,996  1,727,533,228   972,795,777 2.9%  29.3%  16.5%  69,445,452 7,793,512 3.7% 0.8%  1.3%
20101 130,948,712,275  29,463,460,262 6,187,326,655  171,251,053  1,729,021,198 1,018,517,179 2.8%  27.9%  16.5%  70,834,361 7,949,382 3.7% 0.8% 1.3%
2011  137,496,147,889  30,936,633,275  6,496,692,988  174,367,823  1,729,021,198  1,066,387,486 2.7%  26.6%  16.4%  72,251,048 8,108,369 3.8% 0.8%  1.2%
2012  144,370,955,284  32,483,464,939  6,821,527,637  177,541,317  1,729,021,198 1,116,507,698 2.6%  25.3%  16.4%  73,696,069 8,270,537 3.9% 0.7%  1.2%
2013  151,589,503,048  34,107,638,186  7,162,604,019  180,772,569  1,729,021,198  1,168,983,560 2.5%  24.1%  16.3%  75,169,990 8,435,948 3.9% 0.7%  1.2%
2014  159,168,978,200  35,813,020,095  7,520,734,220  184,062,630  1.730,509.168  1,223,925,787 2.4%  23.0%  16.3%  76,673,390 8,604,666 4.0% 0.7% 1.1%
2015  167,127,427,110  37,603,671,100  7,896,770,931  187,412,570  1,729,021,198  1,281,450,299 2.4%  21.9%  16.2%  78,206,858 8,776,760 4.1% 0.7%  1.1%
Assumptions:
(1) GOP will grow in real terms by 5 percent from 2000 through 2015.
(2) The govemment expenditure will be 24 percent of GOP from 2000 to 2002, and 22.25 percent from 2003 through 2015.
(3) MOE's budget will be 25 percent of total govemment budget in 2000, 24.5 percent from 2001 to 2003, 23.5 percent in 2004 and 22.5 percent in 2005, 22 percent in 2006, and 21
percent afterwards.
(4) The budget of pro-prmary, primary and secondary educabon is driven by the growth of school-age populafion at 2.42 percent from 2000 to 2004, 2.07 percent from 2005 to 2009,
and 1.82 percent from 2010 to 2015.
Only public enrollment is projected. The budget of each subsector will grow at the same rate as GPD.
(5) The recurrent costs after the life of the World Bank project include (i) 920 new PROHECO basic educaton teachers at a cost of 57,000 lempiras (52.44 million) each a year;
(ii) 800 new preschool volunteers at a cost of 13,000 empiras (10.4 million) each a year; and (iii) 200 EIB volunteers at a cost of 13,000 limpiras each year (2.8 million).
The total is 65.4 million lempiras or USS4.4 million. It will grow at 2 percent per year.
(6) To ensure that the World Bank project is sustainable, this analysis also takes into account the counterpart fund during the project and recurrent cost financing aftewards of the lOB
project on secondary education.
The IDB project mostly finances capacity building. The recurrent cost is expected to fnance only 200 new teachers. The cost will grow at 2 percent per year.
- 72 -



Table 2: Fiscal Impact of the Projec: Medium Economic Growth Scenado
GDP of          GOH             MOE Budget   Pre-school  Primary budget Secondary     Pre-   Primary Seconda GOH fund  GOH fund  GOH   GOHt  GOK
budget                   budget        primer         ry      for                   fund  fund  fund
y                                           as           for
Year   Honduras         Budget                        based on    based on      based on      budget budget  budget  World Banlk for IDB   % of  as %   WB &
projected    projected   projected     as%   as%      as%                           prepr. Of    IDB
enrollment  enrdltment    enrolment    of    of MOE of MOE Project    Project    &        secon as%
MOE                                         pnmar dary  of
_ _   _   _       _     _                                                ~    ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MOE-
I9Gb 76,563,000,000   18,468,800,000   3,300,000,000   83,900,001   0           609,200,000  2.5%   40.3%   18.5%
2000   80,391,150,000   19,293,876,000   4,826,500,000  133,300,000             617,600,000  2.8%   30.8%   12.8%
2001   84,410,707,500   20,256,589,800   4,862,056,752  143,352,153  1,801,818,458    683434,932  2.9%   32.9%   14.1%   4,073,160  8,625,000  0,2%   1.3%   0.3%
2002   87,787,135,80S   21,068,912,592   4,845,849,896  145,422,9T7  1,619,256,451    708,741,551  3.0%   33.4%   14.6%  29,407,170  8,625,000  1.7%   1.2%   0.8%/
2003   90,859,685,553   20,443,429.249   4,804,205,874  148,226,145  1,641,230,965    738,484,844  3.1%   34.2%   15.4%  32,033,310  8,625,000  1.8%   1.2%   0.8%
2004   94,039,774,547   21,158,949,273   4,803,081,485  151,813,2181 1,666,526,456    773,193,632  3.2%   34.7%   16.1%  23,493,180  8,625,000  1.3%   1.1%t  0.7%
2005   97,331,166,657   21,899,512,498   4,817,892,749  154,207,173  1,677,725,767    805,622,941  3.2%   34.8%1 16.7%  23,493,180  7,200,000  1.3%   0.9%1 0.6%
200f  100,737,757,489   22,665.995,435   4.873,189,019  157,399,261 1,694,014,367    843,487,220  3.2%   34.8%   17.3%  65.440,000  7,344,000  3.5%   0.9%   1.5%
2007  104.263,579,002   23,459,305,275   4,926,454,108  160,857,426  1,705,860,621  883,131,119  3.3%   34.6%   17.9%  66,748,800  7,490,88   3.6%   0.8%   1.5%
2008  107,912,804,267   24,280,380,960   5,098,880,002  163,963,035  1,713,264,530    924,638,281   32S%   33.6%   18.1%  68,083,776  7,640,698  3.6%   0.8%   1.5%
2009  111,689,752,418   25,130,194294   5,277,340,80   167,377,463  1,719,187,657    968,096,281  3.2%   32.6%   18.3%  69,445,452  7,793,512  3.7%   0.8%   1.5%
2010  115,598,893,751   26,009,751,094   5,462,047,730  170,423,754  1,720,688,439   1,013,598,806  3.1%   31.5%   18.6%  70,834,361  7,949,382  3.7%   0.8%   1A%
2011   119,644,855.032   26,920,092,382   5,653,219,400  173,525,466  1,720,668,439   1,061235,856  3.1%   30.4%   18.8%  72,251,04B  8,108,369  3.8%   0.8%   1.4%
2012  123,832,424,958   27,862,295,618   5,851,082,079  176,683,629  1,720,668,439   1,111,113,941  3.0%   29.4%   119.0%  73,696,069  8270,537  3.9%   0.7%S  1.4%
2013  128,166,559,831    28,837,475,962   6,0565,869,952  179,899,272  1,720,668,439   1,163,336,296  3.0%   28.4%   19.2%  75,169,990  8.435,946  4.0%   0.7%   1.4%
2014  132,652,389,426   29,846,787,621   6,267,825,400  183,173,438  1,722,149,221   1,218,013,102  2.9%/.  27.5%   19.4%  76,673,390  8,604,668  4.0%   0.7N    1 .4%
20151 137,295223,055   30.891,425,187   8,487,199,289  166,507,195  1,720,688,439   1,275,259,718  2.9%   26.5%1 19.7%  78,206,858  8,776,760  4.1%   0.7%   1.3%
Assumptions:
(1)GDP witl growin real tems bySpercentin 2000 and 2001, 4 percent n2002, 3.5 penrentfrom 2003 through 2015.
(2) The govemrmnt expendiure Yall be 24 percent of GDP from 2000 through 2002, and 22.5 percent from 2003 through 2015.
(3) MOE's budget wig be 25 percent of total gDvemment budget in 2000, 24 percent in 2001, 23 percent in 2002, 23.5 percent in 2003, 22.7 percent in 2004, 22 percent in 2005, 21.5 percent in 2006,
and 21 percent afterwards.
(4) The budget of pro-primary, pnmary and seoondary education is driven by the gnwth of school-age popuatabon at 2.42 percent from 2000 to 2004, 2.07 percent from 2005 to 2009, and 1.82 percent
from 2010 Io 2015.
Only public enrollment is projected. The budget of each subsector vwill grow at the same rate as GPD.
(5) The recurrnt costs after bt life of the World Bank project indude (i) 920 new PROHECO basic educabon teachers at a cost of 57,000 lempiras (52.44 mrniton) each a year
(ii) 800 new preschoo volunteers at a cost of 13,000 empiras (10.4 millon) each a year, and (iii) 200 EIB volunteers at a cost of 13,000 limpiras each year (2.6 milion).
The total is 65.4 mrillion lempiras or US54.4 milion. It will grow at 2 percent per year.
(6) To ensure that the World Bank proect is sustainabie, his analysis also takes into account the counterpart fnd during the prject and recurrent cost financing aftewards of the 1DB projec on
secondary educabon.
The IDB poject mos8y finances capacity building. The rrcurrent cost is expected to finance only 200 new teachers. The oost will grow at 2 percent per year.
- 73 -



Table 3: Fiscal Impact of the Project: Low Economic Growth Scenario
GDP of        GOH           MOE Budget Pre-school   Primary      Secondary   Pre- Primar Second GOH fund   GOH fund  GOH  GOH  GOH
budget      budget      budget       prim y     ary    for                   fund  fund  fund
ary                                    as          for
Year   Honduras       Budget                    based on    based on     based on    budg budge budget World Bank for IDB    % of  as %  WB s
projected    projected  projected    et as t as % as %                       pre-  of   IDB
enrollment   enrollment   enrollment   of  of    of MOE Project    Project    &    Secon as %
MOE MOE                                primar dary  of
I              I    _ _     _ _ _      i,MOE
1999  76,563,000,000 18,468,600,000 3.300,000,000   83,900,000 1,330,200,000  609,200,000 2.5% 40.3%   18.5%
2000  80,391,150,000 19,293,876,000 4,826,500,000  133,300,000 1,487,500,000  617,600,000 2.8% 30.8%   12.8%
2001  84,410,707,500 20,258,569,800 4,862,056,752  142,669,524 1,593,989,713  680,180,479 2.9% 32.8%   14.0%   4,073,160  8,625,000  0.2%  1.3%  0.3%
2002  87,787,135,800 21,068,912,592 4,845,849,896  145,422,977 1,619,256,451  708.741,551 3.0% 33.4%   14.6%  29,407,170  8,625,000  1.3%  1.2%  0.8%
2003  89,542,878,516 20,147,147,666 4.533,108,225  148,226,145 1,641,230,965  738,484,844 3.3% 36.2%   16.3%  32,033,310  8,625.000  1.8%  1.2%  0.9%
2004  91,333,736,086 20,550,090,619 4,623,770,389  151,813,218 1,666,526,456  773,193,632 3.3% 36.0%   16.7%  23,493,180  8,625,000  1.3%  1.1%  0.7%
2005  93,160,410,808 20,961,092,432 4,716,245,797  151,587,1148 1,649,220,718  791,935,173 3.2% 35.0%1 16.8%  23,493,180  7,200,000  1.3%  0.9%  0.7%
2006  95,023,619,024 21,380,314,280 4,810,570,713  154,725,002 1,665,232,569  829,156,126 3.2% 34.6%   17.2%  65,440,000  7,344,000  3.6%  0.9%  1.5%
2007  96,924,091,405 21,807,920,566 4,906,782,127  159,877,536 1,697,579,744  878,844,075 3.3% 34.6%   17.9%  66,748,800  7,490,880  3.6%  0.9%  1.5%
2008  98,862,573,233 22,244,078,977 5,004,917,770  163,187,001 1,704,947,712  920,149,746 3.3% 34.1%   18.4%  68,083,776  7,640,698  3.6%  0.8%  1.5%
2009 100,839,824,697 22,688,960,557 5,105,016,125  166,564,971 1,710,842,086  963,396,784 3.3% 33.5%   18.9%  69,445,452  7,793,512  3.7%  0.8%  1.5%
2010 102,856.621,191 23,142,739,768 5,207,116,448  169,596,454 1,712,315,680 1,008,676,433 3.3% 32.9%   19.4%  70,834,361  7,949,382  3.8%  0.8%  1.5%
2011 104,913,753,615 23,605,594,563 5,311,258,777  172,683,109 1,712,315,680 1,056,084,225 3.3% 32.2%   19.9%  72,251,048  8,108,369  3.8%  0.8%  1.5%
2012 107,012,028,688 24,077,706,455 5,417,483,952  175,825,942 1,712,315,680 1,105,720,184 3.2% 31.6%  20.4%  73,696,069  8,270,53T  3.9%Y  0.7%1 1.5%
2013 109,152,269,261 24,559,260,584 5,525,833,631  179,025,974 1,712,315,680 1,157,689,033 3.2% 31.0%   21.0%  75,169,990  8,435,948  4.0%  0.7%1 1.5%
2014 111,335,314,646 25,050,445,795 5,636,350,304  182,284,247 1,713,769,273 1,212,100,417 3.2% 30.4%   21.5%  76,673,390  8,604,666  4.0%  0.7%1 1.5%
2015 113,562,020,939 25,551,454,711 5,749,077,310  185,601,820 1,712,315,680 1,269,069,137 3.2% 29.8%   22.1%  78,206,858  8,776,760  4.1%  0.7%  1.5%
Assumptions:
(1) GOP wilI grow in real terms by 5 percent in 2000 and 2001, 4 percent in 2002, and 2 percent from 2003 through 2015.
(2) The govemment expendiure will be equivalent to 24 percent of GOP in 2000 and 2002, and 22.5 percent from 2003 through 2015.
(3) MOE's budget will be 25 percent of total govemment budget in 2000, 24 percent in 2001, 23 percent in 2002, 22.5 percent from 2003 through 2015.
(4) The budget of pre-primary, primary and secondary education is driven by the growth of school-age population at 2.42 percent from 2000 to 2004, 2.07 percent from 2005 to
2009, and 1.82 percent from 2010 to 2015.
Only public enrollment is projected. The budget of each subsector will grow at the same rate as GPD.
(5) The recurrent costs after the life of the World i3ank project include (i) 920 new PROHECO basic education teachers at a cost of 57,000 lempiras (52.44 million) each a year;
(ii) 800 new preschool volunteem at a cost of 13,000 lempiras (10.4 million) each a year; and (iii) 200 EIB volunteers at a cost of 13,000 limpiras each year (2.6 million).
The total is 65.4 million lempiras or US$4.4 million. It will grow at 2 percent per year.
(6) To ensure that the World Bank project Is sustainable, this analysis also takes into account the counterpart fund during the project and recurrent cost financing aftewards of the
IOB project on secondary education.
The IDB project mostly finances capacity building. The recurrent cost is expected to finance only 200 new teachers. The cost will grow at 2 percent per year.
- 74 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
HONDURAS: HNICOMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January 1995 (revised January/August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 1999); and
the Special provisions (Section III) and special provisions stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA).
(1) Procurement Methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the
estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use
of each method are found in Table B.
Works
All works to be financed under this project are small works of replacement or rehabilitation of district
offices of SE. Individual costs of pre-grouped contracts are not expected to cost more than the equivalent
of US$150,000, up to an aggregate of US$0.95 million equivalent. Contracting of small works will be
spread over the project implementation period 2001-2004, as detailed in the Global Procurement Plan
(GPAC) for the project.
- 75 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Metho  (1)
Expenditure                     ICB              NCB         Other (2)          NBF         Total Cost
Category
1. Works                               0.00           0.00           0.95            0.00           0.95
0.00           000           0u85            0.00           0.85
2. Goods (including                    5.80           0.83           0.98            0.00            7.61
didactic materials
and printing services)                                          .
5.55           0.75           0.70            0.00           7.00
3. Consulting                          0.00           0.00           5.78                            5.78
Services                              .                                                        ,_...
0.00          0.00            5.78            0.00           5.78
4. Training                            0.00           00             6.70            0.00            6.70
_________________                      0.00           0.00           6.68            0.00           6-68
Miscellaneous
5. AECO-                               0.00           0.00          12.40            0.00          12.40
PROHECO School
Transfers (school
operational costs,
including teaching
staff and non-durable
goods)
O0             0.00           9.88            0.00           9.88
6. AECO-                               0.00           0.00           3.40            0.00           3.40
PROHECO Grants
(School Improvement
Subprojects)
_________________       Q::::0.00       0.00            30                             3.00
7. ADEL Grants                         0.00           0.00           5.00            0.00            5.00
(School Improvement
Subprojects)
O0M0           0.00           4.00            0.00           4.00
8. Incremental                         0.00           0.00           5.96            0.00            5.96
Operating Costs            __
________________             0.00~~O        0.00            4.31            0  04. 1
Total:               5.80          0.83          41.17             0.00          47.80
:            5.55           0.75          35.201           0.00          41.501
(I) Cost figures have been rounded for purposes of this Table therefore figures may not add. Figures in parenthesis are
the amounts to be financed by IDA. All costs include contingencies.
(2) Procurement methodologies, where applicable, in this column include: (i) for small works: 3-quotations; (ii) for goods
and didactic materials: national or international shopping; (iii) consulting services: procedures described in respective
Section A of this Annex; (iv) school grants: national shopping for school materials; and (v) for incremental operational
costs, national shopping for consumable office materials and O&M of equipment or vehicles financed with proceeds from
credit. Teacher's salaries and other fixed operational costs (rents/utilities) are excluded.
(3) Includes cost of media time.
- 76 -



Goods
Goods procured under this project will include: vehicles (motorcycles and 4x4 pickups) for use by
supervisors of district SE's offices; computer equipment and software for MIS at central, departmental and
district levels; office equipment and furniture; didactic materials (teacher and student guides) to be
contracted at central level. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods have been grouped into bidding
packages of more than US$150,000 equivalent and procured following ICB procedures, using Bank-issued
Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Goods estimated to cost US$150,000 equivalent or less per contract,
up to an aggregate not to exceed US$900,000 equivalent, may be procured under NCB procedures, using
model bid documents based on the Bank's SBDs and agreed with IDA. Small amounts of goods, with
estimated values of under US$25,000 per contract that cannot be grouped, may be procured following
national or international shopping procedures as described in paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, up
to an aggregate of US$1,000,000.
Goods within school subprojects (PECs) will be contracted during implementation using shopping
procedures to be carried out directly by AECOS and ADELs (school councils), and financed with proceeds
from grants (donaciones) transferred to the AECOS and ADELs by SE, up to an aggregate of US$3.4
million and US$5.0 million equivalent, respectively. Grant transfers to schools projects are estimated at no
more than an annual transfer of US$1,000 per school and US$100 annually thereafter, for the life of the
project, benefiting existing and new project schools.
All procurement by central SE and AECOs and ADELs will be done following procedures agreed with IDA
in the DCA, with details stated in the Project Operational Manual (OM), the AECO Operational Manual
and the ADEL Operational manual.
Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following principle areas of expertise:
curriculum development and revision; pedagogical methodology; teacher training; design of information
systems; organizational development and institutional change management and strengthening; monitoring
and evaluation; social assessment; and participatory alternatives.  The cost of these services is largely
distributed as follows: (i) US$5.0 million for technical assistance and studies; (ii) US$1.0 million for IEC;
(iii) US$6.7 million for training; and (iv) US$2.5 million, and US$280,000 of national and international
individual consultants, respectively, who will be joining project teams in all areas of implementation,
training and supervision, including financing of key staff contracts in UTEN, for a total project cost of US$
15.48 million equivalent.
Firms
Contracts with firms estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more would be procured using QCBS
procedures, as described in Section II of Guidelines. IDA's Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) will be
used for all contracts above this threshold. Contracts below this threshold for small and simple services
estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or less may be procured by using LCS (as described in para. 3.6
of the Guidelines) for assignments of technical or educational nature, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$1.7 million equivalent. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$75,000 may be procured by
CQ (as described in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines) for no-critical technical assistance required to
support supervision or training of parent activities of ADECOs or ADELs, up to an aggregate amount not
- 77 -



to exceed US$1.7 million. Simplified forms of contract, as published by IDA, will be used for these
contracts.
Individuals
Consulting services for advisory, technical or institutional strengthening assistance and long-term key staff
in UTEN will be provided by individual qualified consultants. All services will be contracted competitively
by comparison of qualifications of at least three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions in
paras. 5.1-5.3 of the Guidelines, up to a total project aggregate of US$5.5 million. A simplified model
contract will be agreed for these contracts.
Training.  The project will finance training activities that include the cost of rents of installations and
other logistics required for training to be delivered as detailed in each project component.
(2) Prior review thresholds.  The proposed threshold for prior review is based on the procurement
capacity assessment of the project implementing unit and is summarized in Table B. In addition to this
prior review of individual procurement actions, the PAC and budget of the UTEN operating costs will be
reviewed and agreed by IDA annually.
Assessment of the A2encv's Capacity to Implement Procurement
The technical coordination and financial, procurement and administrative management would be housed
under the National Unit for Educational Transformation (UTEN). The UTEN is a unit of recent creation
within the SE under the direct overview of the Secretary of Education's Office. The UTEN overall role
would be to assist SE in institutionalizing the coordination of projects from its donor community.
An assessment of the procurement management capacity of the UTEN was carried out in December 2000
(the full assessment report is filed in the Office of the Regional Procurement Advisor). The assessment
proposed an action plan, including technical assitance support, to strengthen the organizational structure
and arrangements for UTEN, which is expected to be fully staffed and functioning no later than
effectiveness. The highlights of the assessment are as follows:
*   The procurement functions would be under the supervision  of the  Coordinator of the
Financial-Administrative Unit (UAF) in UTEN, one of four main coordinating units. The UAF
Coordinator would have direct line of responsibility to the Executive Director of UTEN.
*   Determination of procurement performance in the previous IDA-supported project showed poor results,
in spite of the presence of a procurement agent (PA)  The PA was unsuccessful at exerting a
satisfactory technical presence and transfer know-how to improve the procurement capacity of the
PCU.
*   On the basis of this infornation, for the new operation, SE through UTEN will be the center of activity
of IDA's project.
*   Thus, the role of the UTEN is considered critical to successful execution of the project since the SE is
trying an minovate approach to institutionalize project execution and eventually reducing its dependence
on the use of a PA in support of its procurement activities.
The UAF will assume the responsibility of all procurement activities and direct management of funds for
all components, except for specific activities in the area of grants (transfers to school councils) and
transfers to co-executing agencies (such as the UPNFM), and other non-procurement related activities in
the incremental operating costs categories. The procurement function will be performed by a Procurement
Officer (PO) assisted by a technical person, whose skills and experience include competencies in
- 78 -



international procurement and local law. This notwithstanding, there is the risk that the PO will experience
a learning curve lasting longer than six months.
The assessment determines that the UTEN will continue to require the assistance of qualified external
technical expertise in project adrninistration, in essence requiring the role of a Technical Agent (TA). This
technical and capacity building assistance would be required from project launching until the UTEN has
reached ample experience for successful implementation. To hire the external TA, a competitive selection
was made among qualified organizations (including UNDP) to advise and assist UTEN in key activities
related to the project components and in the UAF.
The principal risk associated with procurement relates to the speed by which the PO can be hired and
trained. To lessen the risk directly related to procurement activities, discrete actions have been considered
in the Action Plan (AP), already negotiated and agreed with the GOH. After the approval of the DCA by
the General Assembly of Honduras, the SE and its co-implementation agencies (UPNFM, ADELs and
AECOs), through confirmation by the Secretariat of Finance (SEFIN), will be fully responsible for the
management of procurement activities for their respective Project components, under the guidelines and
methods stipulated in the DCA. These and other administrative, procurement, and financial procedures and
controls have been included in the respective chapters of the Operation Manual of the Project.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Procurement Plan
A detailed Global Procurement Plan (GPAC) has been completed and agreed with the GOH. The GPAC
includes grouping of contracts for the life of the project, and as such, it also served as the basis for
aggregate amounts for the procurement methods in Table A. Before December 15 of each year the SE will
update the PAC with detailed inputs agreed with IDA under the Annual Operating Plan (POA). The PAC
for the first year of project implementation has also been completed and agreed with the SE and the GOH.
Frequency of procurement suDervision missions
In addition to the prior review by IDA to be carried out from its offices, the capacity assessment
recommends one supervision mnission after six months of project launching and one mnission yearly
thereafter (includes at least one special procurement supervision for post-review/audits annually).
- 79 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
(US$'OO)
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement         Contracts Subject
Category             Threshold               Method                   to
Prior Review
1. Works                  More than 1,500            ICB          * None expected.
Less than 1,500           NCB          * None expected.
Less than 150,000       3 Quotations    * First 2 contracts; first
(small works)    contract annually
* (Total: $200)
2. Goods, didactic         More than 150             ICB          a All
materials and                                                     * (Total: $5,800)
printing services.
25 to 150              NCB          * First contract in each
expenditure category
* (Total: $200)
Less than 25           Shopping       * None (Post review)
Less than 0.6      Shopping by School  - None (Grants transfers;
Councils      PECs audited periodically)
3. Consulting
Services                   More than 200            QBCS          a All
Firms                                                                (Total: $3,300)
Less than 200 but more        LC          u Between 200 and 75:
than 75                             ALL
* Below 75: TORs and
Short-list
* (Total:$1,700)
Less than 75             CQ           * TORs and Short-list
* (Total: 1,700)
Individuals                More than 35          3 Candidates       (oALL
*(Total: $500)
Less than 35         3 candidates     * ALL TORs or
Bi-annual contracting
plans by Component
* (Total: $1,100)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$14.5 million
Financial Management Assessment
In accordance with IDA's policy OP/BP 10.02, the LCR Financial Management Unit (LCOAA) reviewed
the project's financial management system. The review was focused on the assessment of the internal
control, planning, budgeting, accounting and financial reporting system, and audit arrangements. Details
can be found in the Financial Management Assessment Report dated December 15, 2000.
- 80 -



It was concluded that the project did not have yet in place a system satisfying IDA's financial management
requirements for the project; hence, a pertinent condition of effectiveness was recommended. Compliance
with the condition is expected upon substantial completion of the activities in the action plan described
below.
The complete action plan aims at allowing the project to implement a functional financial management
system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely financial information via Project
Management Reports (PMRs).
Financial management action plan
Area / Action                                                    Expected date          C.E.
1. Organization and staff
,I1 Redesigning of UTEN's organizational chart and implementation arrangements.                            Feb 01                     X
1.2 Preparation ofjob descriptions/terms of reference for financial management staff in UTEN.              Feb - Jun 01               X
1.3 Selection and appointment of financial management staff in UTEN.                                       Feb - Jun 01               X
1.4 Preparation and execution of the plan to incorporate current PROHECO unit into UTEN.                   Feb - Jun 01               X
1.5 Preparation of the annual plan for training and evaluation of the financial management staff           Feb - Jun 01
2. Procedural controls
2.1 Updating and distribution of the administrative procedures manuals.                                    Feb - Jun 01               X
2.2 Written procedures for control of assets and inventories.                                              Feb - Jun 01               X
2.3 Written procedures for independent and timely processing of community allegations.                     Feb - Jun 01               X
2.4 Written payroll procedures.                                                                            Feb - Jun 01               X
2.5 Written procedures for review and follow-up of audit (CGR, intemal, external) reports and recommendations.  Feb - Jun 01          X
2.6 Written procedures and inter-institutional agreement with the Pedagogical University for exchange of financial  Feb - Jun 01      X
information, transfer of funds, and documentation.
2.7 Preparation of pilot plan to decentralize, at departmental level, the review of expenditures' documentation from  Feb - Jun 01
AECOs and ADELs.
2.8 Definition of the internal auditing function in UTEN (ex-post approach)                                Feb - Jun 01
3. Flow of funds
3.1 Written flowcharts and procedures for the flow of funds from every financing source and for each project  Feb - Jun 01            X
component.
3.2 Opening of the Special Account in US$.                                                                 Jun 01
3.3 Opening of the bank account for counterpart resources: revolving fund in an amount sufficient to cover  Jun 01                    X
counterpart's required contribution for four months.
3.4 Satisfactory arrangements to simplify payments to INPREMA.                                             Jun 01                     X
-81-



4. Accounting
4.1 Updating of the accounting manual and chart of accounts, in view of the new project.                   Feb - Jun 01               X
4.2 Entering of the chart of accounts in the accounting MIS.                                               Feb - Jun 01               X
4.3 Enhancement of the transfers module in the accounting MIS.                                             Feb - Jun 01               X
4.4 Updating of the accounting MIS: incorporation of treasury process; subsidiary records for accounts receivable,  Feb - Dec 01
assets and inventories; security levels by user; technical and user manuals, etc.
4.5 Implementation of safeguards for protecting accounting documents from destruction and/or unauthorized  Feb - Jun 01               X
access.
5. Planning, budgeting and financial reports
5.1 Completion of the annual operational plan and monitoring indicators.                                   Feb - Jun 01               X
5.2 Preparation of annual budget classified by source/category/ component, in accordance with the Credit   Feb - Jun 01               X
Agreement.
5.3 Preparation of annual budget by line of expenditure. Discussion with SEFIN to simplify budget lines.   Feb - Jun 01               X
5.4 Budgets broken down quarterly.                                                                         Feb - Jun 01               X
565 Entenng of budgets in the accounding MIS.                                                              Feb - Jun 01               X
5.6 Wntten formats for quarterly (PMRs) and annual (for audit) financial statements.                       Feb - Jun 01
5.7 Written procedures for preparason, review and approval of financial statements and reports.            Feb - Jun 01               X
5.8 Preparation of first quarterly PMRs.                                                                   Oct - Dec 01
6. Externaieudit
6B 1   Preparation and submiter  of audit temos of reference and proposed short list of firms.             Feb -cJun 01               X
6.2 Appointrnent of extemal auditors.                                                                      Jul - Sep 01
(*) To be considered for compliance with FM condition of effectiveness
For monitoring purposes, the Secretary of Education will prepare monthly reports on the progress in
execution of the FM Action Plan.
Proiect Manaeement Rep)orts (PMRs)
Beginning no later than six months after effectiveness, the Borrower would prepare quarterly PMRs to be
submitted to IDA 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter. In accordance with formats to be agreed
with IDA, each PMR should comprise at least the following:
(i) a financial section that: (a) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the project, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for
the project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (b) shows separately
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the credit during the period covered by said report and
- 82 -



expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit during the six-month period
following the period covered by said report;
(ii) an output monitoring section that: (a) describes physical progress in project implementation, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (b) explains variances between the actual and
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) a procurement section setting forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Audit arrangements
Project accounts will be audited annually by independent chartered auditors acceptable to IDA, under terms
of reference to be approved by IDA. Certified copies of the audit reports would be furnished to IDA no
later than April 30 of the year following the period under review, with updates based on interim auditing
activities provided quarterly throughout the year.
Allocation of credit proceeds (see Table C). The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over an
implementation period of about five years, to be completed by June 30, 2006. The credit closing date would
be December 31, 2006. Disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set out in the World Bank's
Disbursement Handbook and LACI Implementation Handbook, as applicable. Disbursements would be
made against the following categories of expenditure:
- 83 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(US$)
Expenditure Category                       Amount                                Financing Percentage
1. Works                                              765,000            93%
2. Goods (including Educational Materials
and Printing Services)
(a) For Application of Curriculum, Student         6,000,000            100% of foreign expenditures, 100 % of local expenditures
Assessment, and Institutional Strengthening                              (ex-factory cost), and 87% of other items procured locally.
(b) For External Education Quality Evaluation                           100%/o of foreign expenditures, 100 % of local expenditures
and In-Service Teacher Training                       507,000            (ex-factory cost), and 87% of other items procured locally.
3. Consulting Services (including studies,
evaluations, IEC, and technical assistance)
(a) For Application of Cuniculum, Student          3,800,000            100%
Assessment, Creation of AECO-PROHECO, and
Institutional Strengthening.
(b) For Extemal Education Quality Evaluation        1,080,000           100%
and In-Service Teacher Training.
(c) For Creation and Organization of ADEL.          900,000             100%
4. Training
(a) For Application of Curriculum, Student         2,800,000            100%
Assessment, Creation of AECO-PROHECO, and
Institutional Strengthening.
(b) For Extemal Education Quality Evaluation        2,700,000            100%
and In-Service Teacher Training.
(c) For Creation and Organization of ADEL.          512,000             100%
5. AECO-PROHECO School Transfers                     8,883,000            100% until an aggregate amount of US$6,000,000 has been
reached, 60% until an aggregate amount of USS7,900,000 has
been reached, and 40% thereafter.
6. AECO Grants (For School Improvement               3,000,000            100% of amounts disbursed
Subproject, PECs)
7. ADEL Grants (For School Improvement               4,000,000            100% of amounts disbursed
Subprojects, PECs)
8. Incremental Operating Costs
(a) For Application of Curriculum, Student        3,500,000            100% until an aggregate amount of US$2, 100,000 has been
Assessment, Creation of AECO-PROHECO, and                                 reached, 60% until an aggregate amount of US$2,900,000 has
Institutional Strengthening.                                              been reached, and 40% thereafter.
(b) For External Education Quality Evaluation       641,000             100% until an aggregate amount of USS500,000 has been reached,
and In-Service Teacher Training.                                          60% until an aggregate amount of US$600,000 has been reached,
and 40% thereafter.
9. Unallocated                                       2,412,000
Total:          41,500,000
- 84 -



Retroactive financing, not exceeding an equivalent amount of US$3 million, will be accepted for
expenditures incurred within twelve months prior to the signature of the Development Credit Agreement,
for the financing of activities related to the validation and adaptation of the national curriculum, training
related to these activities and the creation and operations of AECO-PROHECO schools.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Credit withdrawal applications can be supported by SOEs with thresholds matching those of prior review
for procurement (Table B). Reimbursement of other expenditures would require submittal to IDA of full
supporting documentation.
Use of Project Management Reports (PMRs)
If the GOH shall so request, credit disbursements would be based on quarterly PMRs upon satisfactory
implementation of a system satisfying IDA requirements for PMR-based disbursements. Until then,
"traditional" disbursement procedures (e.g., reimbursements, direct payments, full documentation, SOEs)
would be used for credit disbursements.
Documents in support of SOEs andlor PMRs will be maintained by UTEN at least until one year after IDA
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last credit withdrawal was made. Such
documents must be made available for review by extemal auditors and IDA representatives.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements and timely project implementation, on behalf of the GOH, the SE would open
and maintain a Special Account in US Dollars at the Central Bank. The authorized allocation of the
Special Account is US$2.5 million. Proceeds from the Special Account will be disbursed for expenditures
including including direct transfers to ADECOs, ADELs, and UPNFM (and other expenditures not paid
from the account managed by the technical assistance and procurement agency supporting the UTEN). The
SE would have direct access to the Special Account upon the issuance of disbursement orders to the
Central Bank for all expenditures to be financed by IDA's credit proceeds deposited in the SA. All
withdrawals in the SA will be documented by UTEN for project expenditures, as agreed with IDA.
Revolvin- Fund (RF}. In parallel to the SA the GOH has agreed to open and maintain an account in the
Central Bank in the form of a Revolving Fund. The GOH will deposit in this RE the counterpart funds,
allocated each fiscal year in SE's budget, needed to cover the share of total project expenditures not
financed by IDA. The RF must be replenished quarterly to ensure timely and sufficient availability of
GOH's funds required to accompany all payments and other expenditures done through the SA or the direct
disbursements made by IDA. The Special Account, SOEs and PMRs would be audited in conjunction with
the annual independent audit of the project.
- 85 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
HONDURAS: HNICOMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       14                            11
First Bank mission (identification)              02/15/2000                   05/08/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      12/11/2000                    12/11/2000
Negotiations                                     01/30/2001                   03/05/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    03/22/2001                   06/01/2001
Prepared by:
Joel Reyes, Task Team Leader
Preparation assistance:
Samia Benbouzid, Natalia Moncada
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciatity
Joel Reyes                        Task Team Leader, Institutional Assessment
Ximena Traa                       Social Scientist, Social Assessment and IPDP
Kin Bing Wu                       Sr. EDU Economist, Economic Assessment
Manuel Vargas                     Financial Management Officer, Financial Assessment
Barbara Bruns                     Knowledge Coordinator, Educ. Reform and Mgmt; Peer Reviewer
Daniel Viens                      Sr. Education Specialist, Peer Reviewer
Madalena Dos Santos               Sector Leader, Institutional Assessment
Massimiliano Paollucci            Education Consultant, Project Cost
M. Rosa Puech                     Operations/Education Consultant, Project Preparation
Samia Benbouzid                    Language Team Assistant
Natalia Moncada                   Language Program Assistant
Reynaldo Pastor                   Sr. Counsel
Darlyn Meza                       Education Consultant, PROHECO/Technical-Pedagogical specialist
Nelly Weelock                     Consultant, Project Costs
Rebecca Santos                    Education Consultant, Financial Management
Rosa Estrada                      Procurement Analist, Procurement
Henry Forero-Ramirez              Information System Specialist
Ian Walker                        Cost Benefits Analysis
- 86 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
HONDURAS: HNICOMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. "Plan de Implementaci6n del Proyecto, Transformaci6n de la Educaci6n con Participaci6n de la
Communidad" - Prebasica y Basica (1 A 6 Grado)-(Gobierno de Honduras, Secretaria de
Educaci6n/Tegucigalpa, 7 de Noviembre de 2000)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. "Social Assessment and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan - PROHECO, ADEL and the
Intercultural Bilingual Program"
2. "PROHECO" (revisi6n)
3. "PROHECO: a un afio de los esfuerzos inciales" (PROHECO)
4. "La Unidad de Medici6n de la Calidad Educativa (UCME) y sus comienzos" - Gobierno de Honduras,
Secreataria   Educaci6n".
5. "El Programa de Formaci6n Continua: una experiencia alentadora" - Gobiemo de Honduras, Secreataria
de Educaci6n.
6.   " Educacion  Intercultural Bilingue: Educacion para la Diversidad, Sistematizaci6n  del
Sub-Componente"
7. "Project Costab"
8. "Honduras Community-Based Education Project: Financial Management Assessment Report". The
World Bank's Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Financial Management Unit. December 15, 2000.
C. Other
1. "Plan de Participaci6n para la Preparaci6n del Proyecto de Transformaci6n Educativa con Participacion
de la Comunidad de Honduras" & anexos: (i) Participacion Comunitaria; (ii) Concepto de proyecto; (iii)
Quehacer del Banco Mundial;
(iv) Filosofia e instrumentos de preparaci6n de proyectos; (vi) Propuesta de transformaci6n del sistema
educativo de honduras. Propuesta de asistencia financiera del banco mundia; (vii) Factibilidad del diseiio
del proyecto y Capacidad de implementaci6n.
2. "Operational Manual" (Ministry of Education)
3. "Asociaciones de Desarrollo Educativo Local (ADEL) - Manual de Organizacion y Funcionamiento de
las ADEL"
4. "Reglamento Especial de las Asociaciones Educativas Comunitarias (AECO)"
5. "Presentaci6n de Proyectos Educativos de Centro (PEC)"
6. "Instructivo para el Manejo de la Transferencias Financieras a las ADEL"
7. "Guia de Procedimientos Administrativos para el Funcionamiento de las AECOs"
8. "Manual de las Oficinas Distritales y Departamentales" (Borrador)
9. "Instructivo Transferencia a las Direcciones Distritales y Departamentales"
10. "Estrategia de Evaluaci6n de Impacto"
11. "Sistema de Informaci6n de Seguimiento y Evaluaci6n".
*Including electronic files
- 87 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
HONDURAS: HNICOMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
Mar-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                  disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                           IBRD         IDA                   GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig   Frm Rev'd
P057538        2001 ROAD RECONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT                   0.00      66.50                   0.00        0.00      66.26       0.00       0.00
P060785        2001 HN ECONOMIC & FIN.MANAGEMENT PROJECT                  0.00       19.00                  0.00        0.00      18.55       2.81       0.00
P064895        2001 HN/FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT               0.00      60.00                   0.00        0.00      60.48       0.00       0.00
P064913        2000 EMERG DISASTER MGMT                                   0.00      10.82                   0.00        0.00      10.51       0.00       0.00
P057350        1999 PROFUTURO                                             0.00       8.30                   0.00        0.00       6.13       2.10       0.00
P048651        1999 HNIFHIS IV                                            0.00      45.00                   0.00        0.00      13.986     19.56       0.00
P044343        1998 BIODIVERSITY PROJ                                     0.00       0.00                   7.00        0.00       4.66       4.54       0.00
P007398        1997 RURAL LAND MGMT                                       0.00      34.00                   0.00        0.00      12.60       9.04       9.01
P007387        1996 HN PUB SEC MOD SAC                                    0.00      55.00                   0.00        0.00      26.33       1.13      36.83
P007399        1995 HN- BASIC EDUCATION                                   0.00      30.00                   0.00        0.00       4.99       7.40       4.31
P007388        1993 TRNSPRT SCTR RHB                                      0.00      65.00                   0.00        0.00       4.95     -15.40       4.74
P007392        1993 HN/NUTRITION/HEALTH                                   0.00      25.00                   0.00       0.00        0.40     -10.41       0.16
Total:        0.00      418.62                 7.00         0.00      229.64      -18.34      55.06
- 88 -



HONDURAS
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               Camino Real Plaz               10.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     8.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995/98            Elcosa                          0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1986/99            Granjas Marinas                 6.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     6.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         16.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    14.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               Agropalma                       7000.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1999               Celtel Honduras                 5000.00   5000.00      0.00  15000.00
Total Pending Commitment:      12000.00   5000.00      0.00  15000.00
- 89 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
HONDURAS: HN/COMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Americo   middl          mi
Htonduras   & Canib.   income        Devotopment diamond
1999
Population. mid-vear (millionsl                           6.3        509     2094                    Life expectancy
GNP Per capita (Atlas method, US$)                        760      3,840      1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                          4.8      1,955     2.513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
PoDutation (%)                                            28        1.6        1.1
Labor force M                                             38         25         12      GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recernt etimate (tatest year vailable. 1993.99)                                    capita                         enrollment
Povertv (% of population betow national POv8rty linel      53
Urban poopultion (% of total ponulation)                   52         75        43
Life exDectancy at birth (vears)                           69         70        69
Infant mortalitvy eff 1,000 live births)                   36         31        33
Child rnalnutrition (% of childreft under S)               25          8        15                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of populationl          65         75        86
Illiteracv (% ofpopulation ape 1$5)                        26         12        16           _
Gross Primary enrollment ?% of school-ape populationr    ill         113       114                Honduras
Male                                                    110                  114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 112                   116     -
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1990                                .
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ biltlon,s)                             2.3       5.2        5.2        5A4
Gross domestic investmentlGoP                  26g8      191        30.8       329                       Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              36.6      29.0       47 2       42.9
Gross domestic savings/GOP                     22.0      13.7       24.6:      19.1
Gross national savings/GDP                     18.0       9.9       25.3       22,9
Current account balancetGDP                     -88      .7.9        55 5      10.0     Domestic
Interest Dayments/GDP                           2.7       0.9        3.         3 2       o                            Investment
Total debt/GOP                                 52.6      68.5       95.3      994       Savings
Total debt service/exports                     20.5      12,6       18.2       13.4
Present value of debtlGDP                                           61.4
Present value of debtlexports                     -                116.2
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      1998       199S   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                    2.4      3.2       2.9       -1,9        5.3         -      Honduras
GNP per caPita                        .0.7      0.8       0,4       -3.9        2.8                Lower-middle-income group
EXDorts of oords and services          0.5      1.5       0.3       -9.4       9.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                              3
Agriculture                                    25.6      21.1       19.2       16.2 
Industrv                                       24.4      24.7       30.4       31.9     20
Manufacturinq                                 15.1     15.0       18.6       19.6    1i j   \
Services                                       50.0      54.2       50.4       519       o            7.
Private consumption                            67.0      72.0       65.3      69.4    .10       94   95           97   98   99
General oovernment consumDtion                 10.9      14.3       10.1       11.4               -GVI           _GDP
Imports of goods and services                  41.4      34.4       53.3      56.7
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     2.4       2,4        -2.9      -8.7     is -
Industrv                                        2.9       3.5        4.2        4.0     10
Manufacturing                                  3.0      3.8        3.4        2.6       r
Services                                        2.3       3,5        5.6       -0.2
Private consumption                             2.8       3.0        3.4        0.8      s'                 96
General government consumption                  3.9      -0.6       21.7       10.9
Gross domestic investment                       0.0       8.0        2.8        4.7    -10
ImDorts of goods and services                   0.1       3.6        5.9        6.7             -     Expors           Imports
Gross national product                          2.5       3.7        3.3       -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 90 -



Honduras
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                  40
(% change)                                                                         r
Consumerprices                                        9.9      13.7     11.6    30
Implicit GDP deflator                       11.5      7.1      11.0     11.1    20
Government finance                                                               10i
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                                ..      ..      18.8     19.4             94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                        ..       ..       4.1      2.8            -GDP deflator   eCPi
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -1.7     -4.4
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millons)
Total exports (fob)                                  903      1,657     1,304    3o000
Bananas                                             352       176       38
Coffee                                              191       430      256     2.000
Manufactures                                ..
Total imports (cif)                           ..   1,045      2,445    2,718
Food                                        ..    172         364      397    1,000
Fuel and enerqy                                     146       214      256
Capital goods                               ..      220       615      724        0
93  94  90  96  97  99  99
Export prce index (1995=100)                   ..     98        94        90
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..     76        93        91                r Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    129        102       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GOP (%)
(US$ millions) 
Exports of qoods and services               838    1,061      2,476    2,312      0t
imports of goods and services               930    1,273      2,797    3,055
Resource balance                            -92    -213        -322     -743      4
Net income                                  -120    -240       -209     -160
Net current transfers                        14       43       241       365      -'
Current account balance                     -198    -410       -290     -538     12
Financing items (nat)                       218      364       458       880
Changes in net reserves                      -20      45       -168     -342    -16
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..     28        770    1,209
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)             2.0      2.0      13.4     14.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,184    3,386     5,002    5,356
IBRD                                       132     528       235       185                 G:482   A: 1S5
IDA                                        47       79       579       841                                B r41
Total debt service                           179     142        505      367           F:415
IBRD                                       14        1        68        65
IDA                                         1        0         6         7                                      21
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            21       71        163      210
Official creditors                         86       86         19      158        E: 1.486
Private creditors                          63       43       109       -35
Foreign direct investment                  28       51        84       222                                 1737
Portfolio equity                            0        0         .                                           1.3
World Bank program
Commitments                                35        0        59        61     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              32        2        64       273     8 - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        4        0        50        49     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                   29        2         14      224
Interest payments                          11        1        24        22
Net transfers                              17        1        -10      202
Development Economics                                                                                              919/00
- 91 -



Additional
Annex 11
Social Assessment and Indigenous Development Plan
The present assessment is a joint effort of the Government of Honduras and the World Bank team
(November 2000), and it includes a Rapid Rural Appraisal (RRA) of PROHECO, ADEL, preschools and
the Intercultural Bilingual Program in 49 communities of 11 departments. The RRA was conducted in
November-December 2000 by four teams of social scientists and education specialists deployed to 49
communities in 19 municipalities nationwide. The sampled communities visited are located in the
departments of Santa Barbara, Copan, El Paraiso, Francisco Morazan, Olancho, Valle, Choluteca,
Atlantida, Col6n, Gracias a Dios and Bay Islands. Focus groups were conducted in all the communities
with teachers, parents, Boards of Directors of AECOs, students and the Indigenous Federations.
Interviews were carried out with school principals, Department and District Directors, Mayors and
members of Municipal Councils, NGOs working on education, and indigenous authorities. The purpose of
the assessment was to consult with stakeholders on their perceptions of: (i) the effectiveness and cultural
appropriateness of delivery of PROHECO (basic education, preschool) and the community-based preschool
CEPENF program, (ii) the appropriateness and demand of ADEL (Education Development Associations)
to be introduced with this project, (iii) the introduction of EIB in traditional schools, and (iv) the creation of
PROHECO-EIB schools. Information was triangulated for accuracy.
Several assessments have been made by the Education Quality Measurement Unit (UMCE), the World
Bank Team, PNUD/CEPAL, the Agency for Personal Service Overseas (APSO) of Ireland and by
independent consultants, to assess the impact of PROHECO not only in terms of coverage, drop-out, and
repetition rates, but also in terms of cultural appropriateness, teachers' attendance rates, academic
scheduling, and parents' and teachers' satisfaction. The social assessment recommends mid-term impact
evaluations of the different programs (ADEL-PECs, EIB) in 2003, and an impact evaluation of
PROHECO by December 2001. An education census being conducted by UNDP nationwide is expected to
provide useful data on the current status of education in Honduras by the end of January 2001. The impact
evaluations should try to measure not only equity (education for all), efficiency (student and teacher
performance, student age-appropriateness), and cost-effectiveness relative to remoteness (students,
teachers), but also the social capital promoted by the decentralized community-based PROHECO, ADEL,
EIB in the beneficiary communities.
The Social Assessment has two parts. The first discusses the qualitative results of the Rapid Rural
Appraisal with regard to PROHECO, ADEL, and preschool education. The second part focuses on the
Intercultural Bilingual Program, to conclude with an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan for the
implementation of EIB at the national level.
Part I. Conclusions and recommendations of the Rapid Rural Appraisal for the PROHECO,
ADEL-PECs, and Preschools programs
1.    Situation of PROHECO schools up to December 2000. It's a general consensus that the
PROHECO model is an adequate solution to rural education in Honduras. To-date, eight hundred-twenty
(820) PROHECO schools operate in 190 municipalities nationwide. Three hundred eighty-six (386) of
those include preschool, and two hundred eighty-one (281) include up to sixth grade. PROHECO schools
provide education to 40,000 children, and employment to 1,109 teachers. The social assessment
recommends a major impact evaluation be carried out to compare results of PROHECO schools with those
in the traditional system.
- 92 -



2.     PROHECO and the social capital of communities. Consultations with communities indicate that
this community-based education system strengthens the social network of civil society. The fact that the
school is in the village is said to have improved the security, physical and mental health of students, parents
and teachers. Before PROHECO, children faced risky situations (rivers, cliffs, mud slides, theft, rapes)
when walking up to 8 Km per day to access a school. With PROHECO, significant bonds are created as
parents and teachers team up to support the students.
3.     Social, Economic and Geographic Pertinence of PROHECO Curriculum. The communities
involved demands a quality curriculum which is more pertinent to the immediate needs of remote fanner
communities where PROHECO operates. The imperative need of a revised national basic curriculum will
be solved by the proposed project.
4.     Community Participation and the creation of AECOs. Communities (parents, teachers,
authorities, civil society) have shown a desired level of accountability to manage their PROHECO schools.
Mayors and municipal authorities interviewed have supported PROHECO by providing facilities, housing,
or transportation for the teacher. No major issues were heard from the AECOs, as the disbursement
mechanisms put in place to-date work to their satisfaction. Parents and teachers celebrate the fact that they
are responsible for purchasing the educational materials. The assessment recommends a second round of
training be provided to 800 AECOs on their rights and duties.
5.     Shortage of Teachers in the school system. A major problem is the shortage of trained teachers
in multi-grade education. To-date, there are 359 AECOs organized in 12 different departments, and 13,000
children, looking for teachers.
6.     Perceived risk of becoming a PROHECO teacher. The social assessment found perceived risks
derive from lack of information on the rights granted to PROHECO teachers with regard to salary and
benefits. Teachers' Unions, threatened by PROHECO teachers' autonomy, continue to plant fears of job
instability and privatization.
7.    Infrastructure of PROHECO schools. Temporary buildings are being replaced by permanent
structures. FHIS built/contracted 532 schools in 13 departments. The newly installed system of "mutual
help" for local school construction must be assessed.
8.     Supervision system  and education quality controls. These systems need improvement. A
standard evaluation system of students and teacher performance must be put in place. Education authorities
at the Department and District levels must be trained.
10.    Preschool Education. Only 32% of preschool-age children have access to preschool education in
Honduras. About half of the centers are consideredformal as they have certified teachers. The other half, in
rural and periurban areas are community-based (CEPENF, CCIE), informal, and run by volunteers. The
latter requested formalization of their status. At present, there is resentment on the part of volunteers with
3-5 years experience, who have been displaced by 1,000 certified teachers assigned by the SE to their
posts. The financial sustainability of CEPENFs is also a concem as they are financed by NGOs.
Communities perceive that there is value added when children can attend preschool and have therefore
requested training in self-sustainability.
11.   Local Education Development Associations (ADELs) and School Education Projects (PECs).
One of the problems identified by teachers and school principals in meeting their educational goals is the
unavailability of timely financial resources to develop school projects. The social assessment consulted
with education authorities and communities on the strategies and mechanisms that would be needed to
decentralize financial resources directly to the ADELs for the implementation of demand-driven PECs, to
be prioritized by the community as part of their Annual Education Plan. There was general consensus in the
49 communities regarding the pertinence of this program. The social assessment recommnends the ADEL
bonus of US$100 per project be granted to communities based on performance. A community contribution
in kind may be required.
- 93 -



Part II. Indigenous Peoples Development Plan and the Intercultural Bilingual Program
The autochthonous population of Honduras account for 12.7% of the population. They are multi-cultural
and multi-lingual, originating in three different world regions: (i) Mesoamerican Maya-Aztec (Lenca,
Chorti and Nahoa); (ii) African Garifuna Creole; and (iii) South American Chibcha (Pech, Tolupan,
Tawahka, Miskito). Most of them have been identified as living in extreme poverty conditions (See Poverty
Map 2000). They are represented by nine Federations legally recognized by the GOH. Except for the
Lencas, all of them conserve their original language. The largest linguistic groups are the Miskito (pop.
60,000) and the Garifuna (pop. 300,000)
The EIB Program to December 2000
The first attempt for EIB was made in 1948 by Rev. Marx in Moskitia of the Morava mission with
Miskito-Spanish materials. A separate effort for a pilot bilingual project (Tol-Spanish) was made by De
Dennis at Montafia de la Flor. Both efforts were displaced by traditional education introduced by the SE in
Moskitia and Francisco Morazan in the '80s. When Honduras ratified ILO's Article 169 on the Rights of
Indigenous Peoples and Tribal Groups, the Confederation of Autochthonous Organizations (CONPAH)
signed with SE an agreement to institutionalize EIB, create a technical unit at the SE, and establish
guidelines for EIB in Miskito and Garifuna In 1995, the GOH requested support of the World Bank for the
implementation of EIB as part of the component "Improvement of the Quality of Education" (Credit
2694-HO). The National Program of Autochthonous Education (PRONEEAAH) was officially created in
1998, and a plan was drawn for EIB. Little has been accomplished to-date, due to lack of coordination of
the program.
Two efforts are noteworthy: (i) The Center for Bilingual Miskito Education (CEBIMH) signed a contract
with the SE in 1995 to administer a Pilot Bilingual project in 20 schools and 20 preschools; (ii) A
PROHECO-EIB pilot was launched by the PROHECO Unit of the SE in 2000, which includes
infrastructure of 10 schools built under the "Mutual Help" (community-based) program. Both programs
include teacher training and validation of materials. Both efforts need to be validated by the SE.
- 94 -



Table 1: Inventorv of Educational texts and materials developed. and oth rs needed for the EIB program
Lanquaae         Validated materials Produced                 Yet to be accomplished
Garifuna         Phonetic and syntactic agreements among dialects  Texts for preschool, first, second and third grade
Garifuna Grammar                             Validate and reprint existing materals
Cartilla for reading-writing for first grade
Miskito          Phonetic and syntactic agreements among dialects  Validate and repnnt existing materials
Miskito Grammar                              Texts for preschool, second, third grade
Miskito Diccionary edited
Cartilla for first grade
Text for Teaching of Spanish as Second Language
Short Story Collection "Kisinani"
Coloring book in Miskito
Tol              Tol Grammar, validated                       Validate and reprint existing materials
Cartilla for first grade                     Texts for preschool, first, second grade
Cartilla in Spanish for Tol speakers
Dictionary in Tol
Reading Book "Leamos Tol"
Short Stories in Tol
Creole           "Histona de los Negros de habla inglesa"      Decide whether Standard or Creole English to be
English         'Chata Talk' Reading text.                     used in grammar and texts
Validate and reprint existing materials
Texts for preschool, first, second arade
Tawahka          Phonetic and syntactic agreements among dialects  Validate and reprint existing materials
Tawahka Grammar                              Texts for preschool, first, second grade
Tawahka Diccionary
Pech             Cartilla for first grade                     Validate and reprint existing materials
Text for reading and wrting in Pech          Pech Diccionary
Pech Grammar
______________________________________________ Texts for preschool, first, second grade
Chorti           Drafted grammar incomplete                    Grammar. dictionary, cartillas
Nahoa and lenca   Nothing                                      Discover language heritage.
Source: EIB Unit at the SE, indigenous consultants and federations. Nov. 2000
The proposed Intercultural Bilingual Program 2001-2005
The EIB Unit and the WB preparation team prepared an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, agreed
with the Government, which will seek to facilitate the institutionalization and systematization of an EIB
Program in the SE of Honduras. The plan includes: (i) the institutionalization of EIB in ethnic traditional
schools; (ii) creation of PROHECO-EIB schools which include preschool; (iii) on-the-job teacher training
for EIB Certification; (iv) piloting of ADEL-PEC program in PROHECO-EIB schools; (v) adaptation of
the EIB curriculum based on the revised national basic curriculum; (vi) creation of the EIB student and
teacher performance evaluation system; and (vii) institutional arrangements for program administration at
the central, department, district and local levels. A point of departure may be the validation of the pilot EIB
program in Mosquitia, and the pilot PROHECO-EIB experience in Montania de la Flor, where teachers
were trained in EIB under the programs. In other EIB settings, bilingual teachers are self-trained in
bilingual education.
Objectives of the proposed Intercultural Bilingual Program
(i) To provide quality education to the autochthonous peoples of Honduras with professionals trained in
EIB and a culturally-appropriate curriculum adapted to the needs of the students.
(ii) To improve the learning school experience and results among ethnic groups.
(iii) To systematize the use of the local languages for meaningful academic instruction, adapting the
national curriculum requirements to a culturally significant learning experience.
(iv) To graduate EIB teachers capable of participating in sustaining, improving and institutionalizing an
EIB program that can adequately respond to the needs of the ethnic educational community.
- 95 -



Institutional arrangements of PRONEEAAH and EIB at the SE
At the central level, the GOH has agreed to the reorganization of the management unit of EIB under a
single coordination unit (Unidad Tecnica Central UTC) called PRONEEAAH-EIB to be staffed by: one
unit coordinator, three consultants (an Anthropologist, an Education Specialist, a Linguist), a
Procurement/contract Specialist and a Team Assistant. At the department level, the existing EIB units (
Unidades T6cnicas Departamentales y Distritales) would be strengthened along with their EIB volunteer
support groups.
Lessons learned from attempts to implement EIB at the national level
I. The traditional education program (Spanish) has not been able to resolve the issue of poor educational
attainment among bilingual indigenous population. The EIB program has proven to be more
appropriate.
2. The sustainability of the EIB program depends to a great extent on the commitment of stakeholders
such as the indigenous specialists, leaders, federations, communities, department and district education
authorities, to support the program.
3. Specialization in teaching EIB school is a requirement for a successful EIB program. Being indigenous
and speaking an ethnic language are not enough to teach EIB.
4. In order to implement an EIB program, an EIB curriculum is needed. This curriculum should be based
on the national curriculum and adapted to the cultural framework of each language.
5. Some EIB materials are being produced within each linguistic group. However, they need to be
organized, validated, piloted and reproduced.
Recommendations
1. Carrv out the institutional reorganization of the PRONEEAAH-EIB Unit at the central level, staffing it
as indicated abo-s-e.
2. Design a National Basic EIB Curriculum based on the national curriculum presently under revision,
and adapt it to the linguistic and socio-cultural needs of each linguistic group. The design should be
done with the collab ,ration of linguists, anthropologists and educators, the indigenous federations, and
the Departmental and District Education authorities.
3. Provide on-the-job training to 1,500 potential EIB  teachers (local) on Teaching of EIB  in
culturally-bound environments. Also, provide intemships and study tours for successful EIB teachers
in other countries. Upon return, they can organize workshops to transfer knowledge acquired.
4. Assess and validate the existing materials (phonetic and syntactic agreements among dialects of each
language, Cartillas for reading-writing, story books, grammar books and drafts) by means of
consultancies of local and international experts. Print/reprint materials already validated.
5. Contract local and intemational experts for the research and writing of texts for preschool, first, second
and third grades in EIB in the different languages.
6. Create PROHECO-EIB schools (include preschool) in hard-to-reach rural communities throughout the
country and in the Departments of Gracias a Dios and Bay Islands, where PROHECO has not yet
been introduced.
7. Introduce ADEL-PECs system in most PROHECO-EIB schools as an incentive for teachers and
schools to sustain the program.
8. Create incentives for PROHECO teachers to live permanently in hard-to-reach caserios. Recommend
the employer (the community) to provide housing/lodging and food incentives to keep the teacher in
remote rural communities.
9. Launch a sensitivity campaign on EIB for the education community through the media, and for
Education authorities at the Central, Departmental and District levels, as well as for teachers and
parents.
- 96 -



Indigenous Peoples Development Action Plan
In compliance with ILO's Article 169, the Constitution of Honduras, and the World Bank O.D. 4.20 on
Indigenous Peoples, the proposed project will support the Intercultural Bilingual Program of the Secretariat
of Education of Honduras. To that end, the following Action Plan has been agreed with the GOH as
follows:
Table 4: Action Pl n for the Intercultural Bilingual Program 2001-2005
Components                         Description                         TVDe          Years     Cost US$
1.1              Design National EIB curriculum                  consultancies      1-2           400.000
1.2              Design, orintinc and distribution of materials  contracts          1-4           518.250
1.3              Quality assessmentladjustments/ instruments for  ConsulV           1-2            50,000
evaluation                                      workshops         ._     .
1.4              On-the-job Teacher Training Program (2-yr program)  contract       1-3           960,000
for 1.500 EIB teachers. and 300 EIB volunteers                       .
11.1.1           Creation of 200 PROHECO-EIB Basic schools                          1-5         2.369.595
11.1.2           PROHECO-EIB volunteers                                             5- 32.590
11.1.5           Creation of 200 PROHECO-EIB preschool                              1-5  .        536920
111.1.2          Creation of 400 ADEL-EIB                                            480.000
111.3.2          Transfer to PECs for durable goods basic schools                   1-4           726,000
(1-9)
111.3.3          Transfer to PECs for durable ooods pre school                      1-4           240.000
111.3.4          Transfer to PECs for non-durable goods basic                       1-5            86,400
school (1-9)
111.3.5          Transfer to PECs for non-durable goods pre school                  1-5            46.000
IV-1             Program Administration at SE                    Contracts          1-4           388.800
6,934,555
TOTAL
The Plan described above has been agreed on with the Secretariat of Education, Government of Honduras, January
2001, and has been incorporated in the Honduras: Community-based Project (PO7397) to be financed by IDA.
- 97 -



Additional
Annex 12
Evaluation, Monitoring and Information Systems
I. Impact Evaluation
The following Table summarizes the Impact Evaluation System for the project. A detailed explanation of
the objectives, indicators, the sample selection (size, control group, selection criteria) and costs can be
found in the report Estrategia de Evaluaci6n de Impacto, December 14, 2000.
Table No.1 Impact Evaluation System
Objectives  to  be                  Indicators                       Baseline source                   Impact Evaluation Source
measured
Final Objectives
Coverage              -Coverage ratios (gross and net) for      -Population   and  school    - Population by age groups: projection based on the
preschool and basic education (grades   attendance by age groups     population growth rate for ages 4 to 6 vears old snd
I to 6) in rural areas ofthe            (4 to 6 and 7 to 12 year     7 to 12 years old.
municipalities targeted by the project  old): population census to
be carried out in 2001     -School attendance by these age groups: projecti:ms
-Ratios of school attendance for school                                 based on enrollment growth by age groups.
children-especially between 4 and 12  - Enrollment per grade by
years old- in rural areas of the        age: education statistics  -Enrollment per grade by age: education statistics.
municipalities targeted by the project
-Index for preschool and basic education
-enrollment in the rural areas ofthe
participating municipalities, by targeted
schools and the control group.
Learning              -Levels ofskills (competencies) acquired  -Results  of the  national   -Results of the national standardized tests by the
achievements           by 3rd and 6th grade students in Math,    standardized tests by the    National System  for Extemal Evaluation  of
Science and Spanish in the targeted and   National   System   for      Education   Quality  (Sistema   Nacional  de
control groups.                           Extemal  Evaluation  of      Evaluacion Externa de la Calidad).
Education Quality
Sistema  Nacional  de
Evaluacion Externa de la
Calidad).
Social                -Level of development of self steem,      -  Results of standardized    -Results of standardized  tests for self este.;m,
and    Self-Esteem     leadership capacity and interpersonal     tests  for  self  steeem,    leadership, civic and citizenship training, in parallel
Achievements           relationships of 3rd and 6th grade students  leadership,  civic  and    with academic achievement tests.
in the targeted and control groups.       citizenship  training,  in
parallel with academic
( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~achievement tests.
Intermediate Objectives
Teachers              -Number of days worked per month         -Educatonal  census  and    - Records controlled by AECO and ADEL (project
productivity          -Work schedule per day: times for start     survey to communities for    monitoring system)
and end.                                  baseline
- 98 -



Internal Efficiency    Estimates for the total rural areas of the    -Surveys to existing schools
municipalities targeted by the project and  in the project areas.       -Surveys to the existing schools in the project areas.
for each of the targeted and the control
groups of schools:
-Educational Census /         -Education statistics.
Repetition rate by grades Irst to 6th       Education statistics.
- Early entrance and overage. Enrollment
distribution for grades I srt to 6th, by
ages.
- Drop out rate by grade lsrt to 6th.
Availability of        - Number of work guides per student        -  Survey to targeted and    - Survey to the targeted and control group of schools.
pedagogical            - Number of textbooks in the library per     control group of schools.   - Monitoring  system  of the project: adequacy,
resources                 student                                                                 pertinence, and efficiency of arrival of guides and
- Number of notebooks per student                                         materials to the schools.
- Availability, situation and use of
leaming materials for Science, Maths
and Spanish.
- Relevance of the curricular content and
application to the community context.
- School-based         - Use of School Grants for extension,                                    - Survey to the targeted schools
improvements to           rehabilitation, and/or other school
infrastructure, basic    infrastructure improvements
resources and          -  Use of School Grants to purchase
students well being.      pedagogical materials for technical,
artistic and physical curricular areas.
Social Impact
Perceptions of         - Perception, attitude and behavior
parents, principals.      regarding capacity to participate and   - Survey to parents (or       - Survey to AECO's and ADEL's parents; survey to
teachers and              intervene in school management;           AECO where available);        principals, teachers and students
students in targeted   - Perception of the present school          to principals, to teachers
schools.                  management model and its dynamics;        and to students
- Perception of the benefits of a potential
or actual shared school management
and of school grants;
- Perception of the importance of
education for their children;
- School actors perceptions of the school
environment (physical and social)
- Perception of the teachers' attitude
towards their job, their school and the
community;
- Perceptions toward students and
teachers absenteeism;
- Relevance of present education in
intercultural bilingual communities;
- Perception on the efficiency and quality
of schools (leaming, attitude and
behavior of students, teachers
productivity, students promotion,
availability of pedagogical resources
and District support).
_ 99 -



Objectives to measure                        Indicators                       Source for Baseline           Source for impact evaluation
Parents  and   community    - Location, distance and time to reach the     - Survey to parents and      - Survey to AECO parents; survey to
leaders  in  communities        schools                                     community leaders,           principals, teachers and students
where  schools  will  be    - What type of schools are they: PROHECO,
created                         traditional, EIB?
If PROHECO schools, are parents of the
community participating in the AECO?
Problems of student absenteeism, drop out
and repetition
Perception of the importance of their
children' education
Perception of their capacity to participate in
school management and benefits of shared
school management
Perception of the efficiency and quality of
the school
Teachers productivity on these schools
School environment (physical and social)
Perception of the teachers' attitude towards
their work at the schools and the
community
If EIB: Pertinence of present education in
intercultural bilingual schools.
Perception of the type and dynamics of
these schools' organization and management
-100 -



II. Information System
The information system is described in the report "Sistema de Informaci6n de Seguimiento v Evaluaci6n"
(Dec. 14, 2000). The following tables offer a summary of the sources and the type of information generated
by different institutions and the information produced by the different levels (local, departments and
national) by various actors and its periodicity in time.
Table No. 2 Sources of information
Sector                        Institution                        Responsible                              Type of information
System Traditional
Schools                                School Director                 Information on school activity
Formal Education Centers                                                                         Information on the progress of activities and contracts
ADEL                                   ADEL President                  referring to the project
Information on the status of the PEC
PROHECO System
Education centers                                                      Information on: (i) school activities; (ii) financial resources
Pre-school                            Center Director                 execution: (iii) activities and contract related to the project
Basic                                                                 progress; and (iv) progress on the PEC.
Intercultural schools                 AECO President
Bilingual
Preschool education Sections
Non Formal education      PROHECO System
centers                   Education Centers                                                      Information on center's educational activity.
Jardines                              Center Director                 Information on financial resources execution
CEPENF
CCIE                                 AECO President
CCEPREBA
Education System Admin.
School district offices               Office Chief                    Consolidated reports on school activity in the district.
Progress of activities and contracts
Consolidated reports on school activity in the department.
Department education offices           Office Chief                    Progress of activities and contracts
- 101 -



Table No. 3 Periodic Flows of Information - by Activity
Level                          Monthly                             Quarterly                               Bi annual
Local -                        Progress report of activities for                                        Progress report on PEC execution.
ADEL                           which they are responsible
Local-                         Progress report on project        Supervision meeting with the school
Contractors                    execution.                        district office
Local -                        Progress report of activities for  Supervision meetings with educational  Consolidation and revision of PEC
School District Office         which they are responsible        centers and contractors                progress in the district.
Consolidated report to the department.  Report for departmental level
Department -                   Progress report on contract       Supervision meeting with the
Contractors                    execution                         Department education office
Department -                   Progress report of activites for  Supervision meeting with school        Consolidation and revision of PEC
Department education offices   which they are responsible        district offices.                      progress in the department.
Supervision meetings with contractors.  Report to UTEN.
Consolidated report to UTEN.
National -                     Progress report on contract       Supervision meeting with UTEN
Contractors                    execution.
National -                     Progress report of activities for  Supervision meeting with Department   Consolidation and revision of PEC
UTEN                           which they are responsible        education offices and contractors.     progress in the country
Consolidated report.
Table No. 4 Periodic Information Flows - School Activity
Level                           Monthly                            Quarterly                              Bi annually
Local -                         School activity report (days and                                         Educational statistics.
Educational center              school hours, news).
Local -                         Accountability on the use of
AECO                            financial resources
Local -                                                           Supervision visits to education centers.  Consolidation of educational statistics.
District Office                                                   Consolidated report of school activities  Departmental office report.
and departmental office report
Department -                                                      Evaluation meetings with the districts  Consolidated educational statistics.
Departmental office                                               offices.                               UTEN's report.
Consolidated report of school activity
and the UTEN's report
National -                                                        Evaluation meeting with districts      Consolidated educational statistics.
UTEN                                                              offices.
Consolidated report of the schools
activities reports.
-102-



Additional
Annex 13
Institutional Analysis
Honduras Community-Based Education Project
Background. Honduras is one of the poorest and less developed countries in Latin America. To improve
its social and economic situation, the country is making significant efforts and giving priority to education
as an important tool to fight poverty. In addition, Honduras has embarked in an institutional modernization
process to improve the efficiency, transparency and effectiveness of its public organizations.
Organizational setting. The Secretariat of Education (SE) is the main agency responsible for
implementing the Community-Based Education Project. The SE has had considerable experience in
managing Bank-financed projects, similar projects sponsored by IDB, and several donation/grants from
bilateral agencies. Traditional institutional weaknesses have included (i) low input from schools and
communities in defining needs, priorities and development investments; (ii) weak local education offices at
the department and district levels, and (iii) lack of interaction between the Project Coordination Units
(PCUs) and the staff of the SE. In spite of the SE's traditional institutional capacity weaknesses, recent
improvements are evident in (i) the successful launching and implementation of a community participation
and school-based management strategy (PROHECO -- Honduran Program for Education with Community
Participation), (ii) the expansion of responsibilities and resources to education departmental offices and
school districts, and (iii) the implementation of policies which aim at creating a cohesive organization
within the SE for the planning, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of education development projects,
especially internationally supported investments.
To continue to improve its project implementation capacity, the SE has created an education reform
coordination unit, called UTEN (Unidad de Transformacion de la Educacion Nacionat). UTEN will
guarantee synergy among the various internationally supported projects currently established to improve
the quality and efficiency of education. A small team within the UTEN will be responsible for coordinating
and monitoring  the Community Based Education Project. The UTEN staff will be selected through
national competitive procedures and will receive support from external consultants during project
implementation.
The Project will also benefit from the participation of other donors and agencies who are, on a coordinated
basis, supporting the implementation of the education reforms in the country. The Government has created
an international assistance coordinating body called MERECE (Mesa Redonda de Cooperantes en
Educacion), as a platform to share lessons and resources among different projects, programs and pilots
supported by donors, international agencies and multilateral banks.
Finally, the SE is expanding its service delivery capacity by strategic alliances with other institutions in the
education sector. One of the most important alliances is with the National Pedagogical University,
Francisco Morazan (UPNFM). During the execution of the prior Bank-supported education project, the
UPNFM managed the external evaluation of the quality of education at the Basic Education level (UMCE
-- Unidad de Medicion de la Calidad Educativa), and executed the in-service training program for
teachers (PFC - Programa de Formaci6n Continua). This successful strategic alliance will be expanded
and strengthened during the implementation of the Community Based Education Project.
- 103-



Recent reforms. Despite inherent institutional weaknesses, the Government's priority to the education
sector during the last decade has contributed to educational improvements. The SE has tripled primary
education enrollment, increased the average years of schooling from 3.8 to 4.2 school years, and has
successfully launched a community and school-based management education programs. Also, the
Government has promoted exchange of lessons learned among successful education programs in the Central
American region. For example, PROHECO was designed through adaptations of similar community
education programs in the region, especially the EDUCO program in El Salvador. Subsequently, to
increase local education management effectiveness, the SE has strengthened its decentralized units at the
departmental and district levels. Especially, school districts are earmarked as the key organizational level
to provide close technical assistance to schools. Finally, to guarantee society's ownership and commitment
to education innovations, national participation workshops have consulted, debated and agreed on
education needs, priorities and reforms.
Decision-making process. Currently major policy decisions are still centralized. However, the proposed
Community Based Education Project is in itself proof of a new structure to improve decision-making
process at the school, community, district and departmental levels. The new decision-making structure for
education priorities and investments includes school and community management and leadership,
decentralization of school and teacher services at the district and departmental level, and, in general, the
empowerment of local education actors in order to improve the quality of education in the classroom.
Overall assessment of SE's capacity to implement the project. The Project Appraisal team and
external consultants concluded that the Government of Honduras will be able to implement the Project
provided that: (a) the UTEN's Project team is selected from the highest qualified professionals for the
required technical, procuwement and financial management functions; (b) Project activities are developed
gradually following the schedule defined during project preparation, including coordinated delivery of
school inputs (pedagogical, physical, and managerial), quality measurements (institutional and student
assessments), and innovative interventions (especially interventions related to multigrade pedagogical
methodologies and school-based management); (c) the Government closes any financial management
capacity gaps before prcject effectiveness (see annex 6 for details); and (d) the Project continues to provide
capacity building activities (training, technical assistance, performance evaluations, etc.) during Project
implementation. To this end, the Project design has identified clear objectives, targets and tasks by each key
Project implementation actor.
A summary of the Institutional Assessment and Capacity Building Analysis is presented below.
B. Institutional Assessment and Capacity Building Analysis.
Objectives and  Methodology.  A detailed institutional analysis was carried out to determine the
Secretariat of Education's capacity to implement the Project, based on the following objectives:
*   Identify the institutional activities necessary to achieve successful and sustainable implementation of
the Project;
*   Identify the key units involved in the implementation of the Project and assess their organizational
structure, resources and incentives for successful implementation of the activities defined by the
Project;
*   Propose capacity strengthening strategies, policies and actions for these key units; and
*   Contribute to the understanding, ownership, and commitment of the actors involved in Project
implementation.
- 104-



The institutional assessment data was collected through a highly participatory process, which included SE
workshops and field visits to schools, departments and districts in several regions of the country. The team
used the analytical tool "Assessing Implementation Capacity" (E. Orbach). The analytical framework
include a range of dimensions from global objectives/strategies to specific management activities, as well as
the identification of each organizational unit responsible for implementing key Project activities. These
analytical dimensions included, among others, the organizational setting, leadership, financial aspects, and
work practices. The following table presents the steps involved in the implementation capacity assessment.
Part I                             Part 11                              Part III
Step 1:                              Steps 4 to 9:                      Step 1 0:
Identification of tasks              Identification of gaps between existing   Capacity Building Measures/
Step 2:                              or expected capacity of implementing    Recommendations to close the gaps
Identification of implementing       actors/units, regarding:          identified in the previous steps.
actors/organizational units          -Organization
Step 3:                              -Leadership
Identification of expectations and   -Financial Resources
responsibilities.                    -Human Resources
-Material Resources
-Synergy in the mix of resources
The full institutional assessment report is included in the Project Preparation Files. This annex summarizes
the key conclusions of 11 organizational units and sub-units directly responsible for Project execution:
*   The Direccion General de Educaci6n is responsible for issues related to education management,
including liaison with departmental offices and the community and school-based management
programs; within this directive department, the capacity of the Unit for School-Based Management
(Unidad de Gesti6n Escolar) and the coordination unit for PROHECO were also assessed.
*   The Direcci6n General de Servicios Pedag6gicos is responsible for policy development and design of
curricular inputs, such as curriculum content and programs, educational materials, and teacher
training; within this directive department, the capacity of the Curricular Design Department
(Departamento de Diseno Curricular) and the Education Technology Department (Departamento de
Tecnologia Educativa) were also assessed.
*   The Direcci6n  General de Evaluaci6n  de la Calidad Educativa is responsible for learning
assessments, student evaluation support for teachers, and monitoring and evaluation of education
programs.
*   Direcci6n Departamental de Educaci6n (SE's decentralized offices at the departmental level); each of
the 14 offices across the country is responsible for teaching staff administrative support and monitoring
and evaluation of education investments within their departmental jurisdiction.
*   Direcci6n Distrital (a unit within each of the 18 decentralized departmental offices) is responsible for
school districts and the supervision of, and technical assistance to, schools in both pedagogical
methodologies and community and school-based management processes.
*   Unidad Tecnica de Tranformaci6n de la Educacion Nacional (UTEN) is responsible for the
coordination of internationally supported education programs, projects and investments.
*   Universidad Pedagogica Nacional, Francisco Morazan (UPNFM) is the leading teacher training
institution of the counLtly at the university level. It is also responsible for standardized national testing
at the basic education level (through its unit for external measurement of education quality -- UMCE).
- 105 -



For the above-mentioned units and sub-units, the matrix tables below summarize each area of institutional
capacity studied, the capacity gaps identified, and the action plans or capacity building measurements taken
by or agreed with the SE.
C. Institutional Capacity Assessment, by Unit
Table I
General Directorate of Education
(Direcci6n General de Educaci6n)
Area of Capacity           j             Capacity gaps identified                   Capacity building Measures taken/agreed
Organization
Fonnally created as part of the structure    This New Directorate was recently established. Its   The SE is defining (i) the profile of the Director of the
of the SE, by Decree 207-99 (November    administrative structure and functions need to be    DGE  and; (ii)  consolidating  its  administrative
12, 1999).                              consolidated and its new Director selected.      structure.
The  General Director of Education    The role of this unit is key to the project success by    During the first year of operations, the Project will
(DGE) is expected to have a leadership   allowing: (i) clear and effective coordination of the    provide technical and financial support to the DGE
role,  motivating,  coordinating   and    work with decentralized offices; and (ii) effective    Director.
monitoring tie work of decentralized    coordination with other projects in SE.
units, including  departmental offices,                                                  The SE will determine the appropriate budget for the
school districts, and school councils,  The DGE will require financial resources to support   DGE.  Financial commitments were agreed during
effectively the SE decentralized offices.        project preparation.
Leadership and administration         I  On a temporary basis, an education specialist is   The  project  will  support:  (i)  leadership  and
leading the unit, but without having the strong    management training activities for the DGE's director
management profile for this position.            and the departmental offices' chiefs; and (ii) the
information systems and technology required to support
j                                                   decision making at the central and local levels.
|lumnan Resources                       Limited permanent staffing has been assigned to this    The SE is in the process of interviewing and selecting
ounit. On a temporary basis, several education    staff for the DGE; it should be fully staffed by Project
specialists  have  been  fulfilling  the  functions   launch. The project will support capacity building
required by the unit.                            activities in management and communications and use
of information technologies.
Material Resources                      There has been insufficient budget allocations to    The project will provide technical and financial
support. the acquisifion of material resources for the    resources to the DGE. The new SE budget allocations
unit.                                            for 2000 and 2001 calendar years will reflect increased
operational cost resources.
Processes and practices                 The  mechanism  established  to  support  the    DGE is preparing formal guidelines to guarantee a
decentralization of the education services to the    minimum of decentralized functions and performance
departmental offices and school districts are not   in all 14 departmental offices in the country.
fully systematic. The DGE does not have formal
guidelines to measure decentralization progress.   The  project will support the  establishment of
Sonte stronger departmental offices have absorbed    management mechanisms and monitoring systems, as
increased functions and decision making, while    well as incentives for departmental offices and school
others are still dependent on the SE.            districts.
- 106-



Table 2
General Directorate of Education (Direccioin General de Education)
School Management Unit (Unidadde Gestion Escolar)
Area of Capacity                           Capacity Gaps Identified                   Capacity building measures
taken/agreed
Organization                                   Created by Decree but not yet functioning. There is   TA hired during Project preparation is
A School Management Unit is a key part of the   a need to  define the structure and organization of   already supporting the organization of the
General Directorate of Education.  It will be   the unit, as well as the strategies for promoting and    School Management Unit of the DGE.
responsible for developing norms and guidelines for   legalizing  the  community  and  school-based    During Project implementation, long-term
school management promotion, coordination and   management activities (ADEL  and PECs) in   consultants will be contracted to support
training, especially for Departmental Offices and   traditional schools.                       management activities of this unit, while it
School Districts. Within the Project, this unit will                                          is strengthened institutionally.
establish and monitor procedures to implement and
operate the ADELs and PECs.
Leadership and administration                  Head of sub-unit not yet appointed yet          During Project preparation, the TORs for
the head of this sub-unit were developed.
This position will be filled prior to project
launching. Long-term consultants and TA
will support the head of the sub-unit.
Human Resources                                While the sub-unit is staffed permanently, several   As mentioned before, the sub-unit will
technicians of the SE are performing the activities to   include both permanent staff and TA
be developed by this unit. However, pennanent   competent in school-based management
staffing with high quality personnel should be filled    and decentralization in the education
prior to Project launch.                       sector.
The procedures and manuals for the
organization of school councils (ADELs)
and the promotion of school improvement
plans (PECs) have already been developed
by the SE.
The project will also provide financial,
technical and material resources for the
sub-unit's technical team, in order to
support their promotion and monitoring of
the ADELs.
Material Resources                             This unit is temporarily functioning with extemal   The project will provide  permanent
resources, transferred personnel and some resources   resources to strengthen this sub-unit,
from the DGE.                                  including computer equipment, vehicles
for field  visits, and operating costs
support.
Processes/practices                            The sub-unit is learning from the experience and    The  Project  has  provide  technical
procedures adopted by PROHECO. The unit will   assistance (consultants) to support the
promote, organize, train  and  monitor school   design  of processes, procedures and
councils in traditional rural schools (ADEL). Draft    manuals for school-based management in
manuals have already been prepared to define the   traditional rural schools (i.e., the ADEL
role of this sub-unit and the procedures to support   model).
the school-based management strategies.
A close integration between this unit and
In terms of work practices, a team approach with   the coordination unit of PROHECO is
the PROHECO counterpart can augur adequate   being promoted through exchange of
absorption of the experience of this latter unit.  lessons leaned and mutual training,
workshops and field visits to rural
communities.
- 107-



Table 3
PROHECO-Programa de Educacion con la Participacion de la Comunidad
Area of Capacity                              Capacity Gaps Identified                    Capacity Building Measures
agreed/taken
Organization
The PROHECO Coordination Unit has developed strong    The  PROHECO   program   will  be
The PROHECO Unit has successfully launched     expertise in design of instruments and implementation of   institutionalized within the structure of the
and implemented the first community-based school    activities to support community-based school programs.   SE. The PROHECO coordination unit
program in Honduras. The coordination unit is  The high commitment of the PROHECO staff and the   will become a sub-unit of the DGE, to
structured around functional needs to identify,  field promotion teams has made the pilot phase of the    guarantee direct coordination with the
promote, train and supervise community groups  project very successful.                            School Management Unit, which will
and schools to implement this innovative program.                                                  support similar community participation
However, centrally, the PROHECO  unit has been   and school-based management activities in
operating on a parallel basis to the SE structure.  Thus,   traditional rural schools.
now that the program is expanding, it needs to be an
integral part of the SE.                            The Project will support transferring
responsibilities  for  the  promotion,
The next phase of institutional developing will focus at   organization, and monitoring functions fnr
institutionalizing   community   participation   and    AECO-PROHECO  and ADEL schocls
school-based management promotion capacity at the    within Departmental offices and school
departmental level.  This development efforts should   districts.
include monitoring and evaluation of community
participation and school-based management activities at
the Department and District levels.
Leadership and administration                  PROHECO  leadership  is highly committed   and    The  project  will  provide  training
enthusiastic. The evidence of changes at the community   activities in the areas of leadership and
level, and the participation  and empowerment of   management,  both  at  central  and
education actors in poor and isolated rural communities   departmental levels, given priority to
has created a participatory culture and leadership within   those departments with large rural and
the program.                                        poor populations.
In addition, PROHECO leadership has created trust from    To   strengthen   the   quality   c f
other govemmental authorities and is highly respected by   implementation, the Project will provide
its subordinate team.                               long-term  facilitators, trainers for the
PROHECO program, as well as for other
Additional training for leadership and management   sub-units of the DGE.
would be necessary to continue to improve program
effectveness.
Human Resources                                Local PROHECO promoters still lack adequate and    Local PROHECO  promoters will be
systematic training.  Information collection is still  trained along school district staff in
limited, which limits proper planning and verifiable   strategic  planning,  monitoring  arid
monitoring of program development and needs.        program development.
PROHECO promoters will become part of
the staff of school districts to guarantee a
coordinated work effort at the community
level between organization of PROHECO
schools and other educational assistance
provided by school districts.
Material Resources                             Financial support for material and other operation    A  detailed plan including  the basic
resources for PROHECO have been available. However,   equipment and other materials required by
procurement procedures have been delayed due to lack of   PROHECO in its next phase was prepared
experience with bidding processes and/or development of   to  facilitate a timely  acquisition  of
specifications and terms of references for required goods    material resources.   The procuremerit
and services.                                       specialists of UTEN and the TA hired eo
support  the  Project  will  expedite
procurement procedures for PROHECO)
as well.
- 108-



Processes/practices                             The strategy and methodology to train AECOs and    Performance indicators and a monitoring
teachers needs to be further systematized.           system are being developed to support the
supervision and monitoring activities of
Limited supervision capacity and availability to measure    PROHECO.
impact, due to the lack of definition of performance
indicators and limited statistics.                   The PROHECO/AECO manual is being
revised to incorporate the departmental
In some school districts, weak coordination between    and school district functions in support of
district and PROHECO staff.                          the program.
PROHECO  field staff will be part of
school district as active participants in
school district planning, development and
management structures.
- 109-



Table 4
General Pedagogical Services Directorate
(Direcci6n General de Servicios Pedagogicos)
Area of Capacity                             Capacity Gaps Identified                    Capacity Building Measures
taken/Agreed
Organization                                    Insufficient coordination of services between the  It was agreed that all services provided by
This unit is under the Technical Pedagogical    three sub-units which compose the Directorate.    the Directorate's sub-units will reach
Viceministry (Subsecretaria Tecnica                                                               schools  in  an  integrated  manner:
Pedag6gica). This unit is subdivided in three                                                     curricular   guides,  textbooks   and
sub-units responsible for different educational                                                   educational materials, and training for its
areas. Curriculum Department, the Educational                                                     appropriate use by teachers.
Training Department (INICE) and the Educational
Technology Unit.                                                                                  In  addition   to  student  leaming
evaluations, the Project will assess the
integrated and coordinated approach
provided by the Directorate; especially it
will assess teacher opinions on the quality
and integration of these services.
Experts in multigrade methodologies,
including the Escuela Nueva (New
School) model, will be closely working
with the pedagogical teams to improve not
only  pedagogical strategies, but also
appropriate  teaching   materials  and
teaching training.
Leadership and administration                    The isolation across the Directorate's sub-units   The project will provide TA to increase
contributes to fragmented leadership and decision    team building and exchange of ideas and
making.                                          products  between  the   Directorate's
sub-units.   A  shared  leadership  and
management approach at the Directorate
level  will  guarantee  an  integrated
provision of educational inputs at the
school level.
Human Resources                                  Around  75  people  employed  between  the    Measures to assess the level of staff
Directorate and its sub-units.    The technical   knowledge will be developed by SE with
capacity of the staff is very heterogeneous (ranging    the support not only of the Project but also
from high to low).                               of other education programs supported by
international agencies and donors.  A
better strategic mix of personnel will
improve the quality of human resources.
Material Resources                               The Directorate has limited computer equipment,   Required materials resources for Project
operational materials, and other physical resources,   implementation will be made available to
to support the work of the unit                  the Directorate, including  support of
incremental operational costs for Project
activities.
Processes/practices                              Limited coordination mechanisms across the       The Project will provide TA and other
Directorate's sub-units for curriculum development,   incentives (staff development, coordinated
educational materials and training. Also the     research and field studies, and team
Directorate needs to plan and program activities  building   workshops)  to   establish
closely with other SE's Directorates, especially those   coordination  mechanisms  across  the
for learning evaluation and school-based         sub-units of the Directorate.
management.
Project planning and programming will be
done in a coordinated manner by all SE's
units and sub-units participating in Project
implementation.
School districts will support and monitor
the provision of integrated pedagogical
services (e.g., teacher and student guides,
textbooks, and training) to schools.
- 110-



Table 5
Educational Technology Department
(Departamento de Tecnologia Educativa)
Area of Capacity                          Capacity Gaps Identified             Building Measures taken/Agreed
Organization                                              This unit traditionaily has not been    The Project will work on a coordinated manner
This Department is part of the General Directorate of   very  proactive  in  proposing    with this sub-unit. It will also make available
Pedagogical Services ("Direcci6n  General de Servicios   innovative materials for schools. It  technical assistance and field visits to improve
Pedag6gicos")                                             has usually worked on a parallel   the team  knowledge of the most recent
track to internationally supported    developments in the area of didactic materials,
This sub-unit is responsible for the preparation of didactic   programs and projects, which design,   especially for multigrade and EIB schools.
materials and will be responsible for developing materials for   develop and distribute their own
urban and rural schools, both for multigrade and intercultural   school materials.
and bilingual (EIB) methodologies.
Leadership and administration                             Since most educational materials   The Community Based Education Project will
activities are implemented by the    guarantee coordination between all SE's units
project  coordination   units  of   responsible for Project execution, and will
education investment projects, the    provide  training  programs and  on-the-job
unit leadership has been weak.    technical   assistance   in   pedagogical
methodologies, leadership and management
skills.
Human Resources                                           Team  of 13 education  experts.   The  Project  will  support  professional
Skills required  to  develop  and    development for this unit. However, the actual
produce educational materials are   design,  development, and  production  of
limited.                           educational materials will be contracted out.
The regional and international market can
provide the required educational materials with
high quality and efficiency. The educational
technology unit, in tum, will support policy
formulation, coordination with other SE's units
and decentralized offices, and monitoring of
educational matenals use and impact.
Material Resources                                        Material  resources  (equipment,   The Project will provide resources to support
vehicles, operational budgets) are   the unit in implementing its activities within the
limited.                           Project.   Project funds will support the
procurement of   didactic materials to be
distributed to schools.
Processes/practices                                       The unit functions have traditionally    As part of the Project, the unit will begin
focused  on  the  distribution  of   implementing better work practices related to
textbooks and other materials to   policy development, coordination of inputs to
schools.                           schools, and monitoring  of teaching  and
However, its role has been limited in   learning in the classroom.
regards to educational materials
policy  formulation,  coordination    Based on feedback from schools, the unit will be
with other pedagogical units of the    better  able  to  propose  corrections  and
SE, and monitoring of the use and    adjustments to educational materials and to
impact of educational materials in   improve a coordinated provision of services
the classroom.                     with SE's units for curriculum development and
teacher training.
- 111 -



Table 6
Department of Curriculum
(Departamento de Disedio Curricular)
Area of Capacity                             Capacity Gaps Identified                   Capacity Building Measures
Taken/Agreed
Organization
This unit is part of the General Pedagogical Services    At present the unit  lacks the organizational    The Project will hire specialized  TA
Directorate  ("Direccidn  General de  Servicios    structure and capacity to successfully carry out   within the curriculum  unit to support
Pedagdgicos ')                                    curriculum adaptation for EIB, special education,    curricular  adaptations  for  EIB  and
and urban marginal and multigrade schools.     multigrade schools. It will also provide
The unit is an important "client" for the Project. The                                            some financial resources to support the
Project will provide resources for the application in                                             unit in other programs related to special
rural classrooms of the curriculum  guidelines                                                    education and urban marginal schools.
developed by this unit.
Leadership and administration                     The unit's leadership is experienced and has key    The  SE  is  proposing  measures  to
management skill.  However, the pedagogical   strengthen the skill mix of the unit, in
team  needs to strengthen in issues related to   order to lead the new curricular areas and
intecultural  and  bilingual  education  and    their adaptation for rural, multigrade and
multigrade methodologies.                      EIB schools.
The Project will finance specialized TA
and field studies to improve the specialized
skills of the unit.
Human Resources                                   The unit has 14 professionals. It has limited    The Project will finance consultants to
specialists in the areas of multigrade, urban    guarantee the development and transfer of
marginal, EIB and special education.           adequate technical knowledge.
The SE is proposing mechanisms to assess
suitability of present personnel for their
positions and attract people with adequate
academic and professional backgrounds.
Material Resources                                There is a lack of material resources.  For   The Project will provide the required
example, the unit has only two computers   equipment for the technical personnel of
available for 14 professionals.                the unit.
Basic National Curriculum for basic education is    The project will finance the design,
ready. Review of study programs (los planes y    printing  and distribution  of necessary
prograrnas de estudio) still pending.           materials to support the socialization and
promotion   of  the   new   curricular
interventions.
Processes/practices                               The principal weakness is in the                The SE, through the Project, will hire
lack of a participatory strategy for the feedback    facilitators to  support a participatory
and validation of the new national curriculum,    strategy for feedback and validation of the
including coordination with other SE's units   new curriculum. Planning, programming
(especially educational technology and training).    and monitoring for Project activities will
be done in a coordinated manner by all
implementing units.
-112 -



Table 7
General Directorate for Quality Evaluation
Direccion General de Evaluacion de la Calidad (D I G E C E)
Area of Capacity                            Capacity Gaps Identified                  Capacity Building Measures
Taken/Agreed
Organization
The organizational structure of the unit requires    The Project, and other intemational
Within the Project, DIGECE will (i) institutionalize   roles and functions directly related to student   agencies working with the SE, will
a mechanism for formative evaluation of student   assessment in the classroom, formative evaluation    provide  TA  to  the  design  and
learning in all rural classrooms; (ii) develop teacher   systems, and participatory feedback of school   development of the evaluation activities.
guides and reference materials regarding student   leaming outcomes.
assessment; (iii) coordinate with other SE's
pedagogical units to provide them feedback of
student leaming outcomes and to plan any
adjustments to lesson plans, instructional materials
and teacher training.
Leadership and administration                   Although highly motivated, unit leadership needs    Training programs on evaluation and
specialized training on evaluation technical areas.  management will be provided under the
Project.
TA will be contracted from local and
international agencies and universities
specialized   in  student  leraming
evaluations.
Human Resources                                 Personnel lacks strong background in evaluation.   Openings due to retirement will allow
Many staff are close to retirement and new staff   possibility to fill them with professionals
may need to be hired eventually.               with extensive evaluation academic and
professional background.
Continuous  training  and  technical
assistance will be provided to this unit
during the implementation of the
Project.
Material Resources                              Insufficient computer  equipment and  school   The Project will provide resources to
information materials on student assessment.   design,   produce   and   distribute
evaluation manuals, evaluation sheets,
posters,  and   other  informational
materials for schools.
Computer equipment will also be
provided.
Processes/practices                             Traditionally, there is limited coordination among    The Project implementing guidelines
pedagogical units within the SEs. DIGECE needs    will guarantee coordination by all units
to coordinate not only with the curriculum,   involved    (through    participatory
educational technology and training units of the SE,   planning, team  building workshops,
but also with the extemal education evaluation unit   sharing of information, etc.).
(UMCE) of the Pedagogical National University
(UPNFM).  The UPNFM  carries out bi-annual    Specific training  and TA  in team
standardized testing of 3rd, 6th and 9th graders.  building  and  participatory  working
practices will be provided.
Based on feedback by the standardized
testing by UMCE, DIGECE needs to
follow at the school level to guarantee
that teaching practices and formative
student  evaluations   correct  any
problems in learning encountered.
- 113-



Table 8
Education Departments
Direcci6n Departamental de Educacion (DDE)
Area of Capacity                              Capacity Gaps Identified                   Capacity Building
Measures Taken/Agreed
Organization                                        Each Department has a minimum organizational    The   SE   is  advancing   on  its
The Project is supporting the SE's strategy to gradually   structure composed of six offices for human    decentralization process by filling up
shift responsibilities from  the central level to the   resources,  financial   management,  school    departmental positions and establishing
decentralized  units and  community  organizations.   supervision, and education quality.  Some key    clear rules and guidelines for the work to
These responsibilities include administrative support of   positions at the department levels have not filled    be done at that level.
teaching staff, monitoring and evaluation of education    up.
projects, and  to  give  incentives  for innovative                                                  The SE  is validating the proposed
pedagogical proposals at the school and school district   Revisions to Operational Manual guidelines for   revisions to the operational manual of
levels.                                             departmental staff have been proposed but are not   the DDE (supported by the project) and
yet approved.                                   will complete the approval of the revised
The Director of the SE's Departmental Offices is                                                     drafts of the manuals.
expected to manage successfully all new decentralized
functions and to motivate and coordinate its staff both                                              Departmental Directors  will call a
in the departmental offices, as well as in School                                                    meeting at least once a month with
Districts.                                                                                           District Directors, assistants and chiefs
of units in order to share information and
monitor progress.
Leadership and administration                       Field visits confirmed high interest, motivation and    The Project will take advantage of the
optimism  in  the  Departmental    Directors,   positive climate in favor of education
including  their openness  towards  the  new    reforms  at the  departmental  level.
community participation models in the education    Training, TA, and other incentives will
sector.                                         be  provided  to  SE's  Departmental
Offices  leadership  to  continue  to
There was still some skepticism  regarding real   strengthen their managerial and team
decentralization of decision making at the local   building skills.
level.
The DGE leadership will guarantee
information sharing and coordination
horizontally with other departmental
offices and vertically with the SE and
School Districts.
Human Resources                                     The human resource mix of departmental offices    The SE is giving priority to finding
needs to be strengthened to guarantee adequate   suitable  personnel in  the  areas of
performance of their new decentralized functions.   pedagogical services, project evaluation,
Especially  lacking  are  skills  in  planning,    and educational planning.
monitoring and evaluation of education programs.    The Project will provide training and TA
at the Departmental level to support the
There  are concems about high  rotation  of   implementation  of  their  respective
personnel in  departmental offices, especially    activities within the Project (mainly
during changes in govemment administrations.    education needs assessment, education
statistics,  and  monitoring  of  the
community      participation    and
school-based management strategies).
Training and capacity building will be
provided to Departmental Directors on
leadership, management and information
technology.
Material Resources                                  The construction of the new DDEs is almost    SE will guarantee the provision of basic
completed. Some DDE's installations have limited    equipment for departmental  offices,
equipment.                                      through various investment operations
been supported by intemational donors.
-114-



Processes/practices                                 There  is still no  systematic processes  and    The Project will support participatory
mechanism  to orient the working relations of   workshops for Departmental, District
departmental offices, both with School Districts   and SE staff to agree on communication
and SE's central offices,                       systems.
The project will finance the development
of a statistical information system for
monitoring of departmental educational
needs and outcomes, which will be
shared across institutional levels.  An
appropriate management information
system will help develop a more
systematic sharing of information across
the education sector.
-115-



Table 9
School Districts
Direccion Distrital
Area of Capacity                  Capacity Gaps Identified                   Capacity Building Measures Taken/Agreed
Organization                          School Districts have not had  a    The SE is reviewing the organizational structure of School Districts
As   part   of   their   Project    defined  structure  of functions  to   in order to incorporate improved functions regarding promotion,
responsibilities,   school   districts    promote  and  support  community    organization  and  training  for community  participation  and
(Direcciones Distritales) will provide    participation    and    school-based    school-based management.
technical assistance and will monitor    management activities.
schools.                                                                   The SE budget has already incorporated into its budget increments for
The traditional role of school districts   institutional strengthening of school districts.
In   addition,   the    promotion,    has  been  mainly  supervision  of
organization and training functions for    schools.                        The SE's Modemization Unit is producing a revised Organizational
AECOs  and   ADELs  will  be                                               and Functional Manual for School Districts.
incorporated within the functions of
the School Districts.
Leadership and administration        Leadership skills in school districts    To guarantee ownership and commitment, the Project has involved all
range from high to very low. The SE    school districts in preparing the Project. School Districts directors (
needs to guarantee a minimum level of    Directores Distritales) are aware of their new responsibilities in the
leadership capacity for all School    community participation and school-based management models, and
Districts.                            have been participating in some initial training workshops.
Human Resources                      The 89 School District Directors were    The human resource mix of School Districts will be complemented by
selected through a competitive process.   the incorporation of PROHECO promoters. PROHECO promoters
have extensive experience in community participation promotion,
organization of school governments, and monitoring of financial
On average, there are 3 assistants by    transfers to schools.
district, and an average of 20 schools   In addition, long-term TA will be hired to support on-the-job training
for each of them (district assistants are    of all School District staff, in both school management and
usually seconded teachers).           pedagogical models (especially multigrade teaching and  EIB
methodologies).
Traditionally, there has been no
systematic  training   on   school
supervision and technical assistance.
Material Resources                   Lack of adequate office space.        For the approximate 86 districts with high rural populations, the
Project will provide vehicles, infrastructure, fumiture, computers and
Limited  transportation  resources--   training for its use.
including vehicles, travel funds, and
maintenance resources--to visit rural    The SE will provide gas and resources for maintenance of vehicles
schools, especially those hard to reach    and infrastructure.
and isolated.
Processes/practices                  Traditional,  work  practices  have    The Project--through training, TA, and financial resources--will
tended  to  be  supervisory  and    support improved working practices aimed at creating good working
administrative.    School  Districts   relations between school districts and schools' staff, including
should  become more involved  in   specialized support of teachers by school districts in both pedagogical
technical assistance and training of    and school-based management areas.
teachers in their classrooms, to
guarantee adequate teaching and
learning.
- 116-



Table 10
UTEN
Unidad Tecnica de Transformacion Educativa
Area of Capacity                 Capacity Gaps Identified                 Capacity Building Measures Taken/Agreed
Organization                        As a new organizational unit, terms of
The UTEN  has been  created to   reference for each of the staff position    The  administrative  positions  for procurement and  financial
provide synergy between programs,   of the UTEN have been developed.   management will be  filled  through  a competitive  process.
projects and investments in support of    Key  positions  have  been  filled.   Acceptable candidates would have private sector experience and
education reforms, especially those    However, the administrative positions    excellent performance recommendations.
supported by international agencies.   for the procurement and financial
It organization structure is divided    management of the Project are still   Contracts for Project coordination staff will include performance
between a technical body, which    vacant.                               clauses and annual evaluations.
coordinates with each of the Directive
Units of the SE responsible for
different  areas   of  education
investment  (curriculum    reform,
student    assessment,    school
management, etc.), and administrative
units, which coordinate with the
corresponding international financial
agencies.
Leadership and administration       The key leadership role of the UTEN    The terms of reference for the leadership positions of the UTEN
is one of coordination and team    emphasize their role as facilitators for the SE's directors to guarantee
building. The highest risk for the unit   their ownership of the education programs, projects and investments.
is to also become an isolated unit
within the SE.                      Decision making regarding education intemationally supported
education programs, projects and investments will be done by full
participation of the SE's directors through a coordinated board, of
which the UTEN is but one additional member.
Human Resources                     Only the key leadership positions of   The competitive process for selection of the administrative positions
the UTEN  have been  appointed.    of the UTEN has been fully agreed with the SEs and the Secretariat of
Administrative staff for each of the    Finance (SEFIN). The full staffing of the UTEN, acceptable to IDA,
large investment projects, supported   is a condition of Project effectiveness. Technical Assistance for the
by the World Bank and the IDB still   selection and training of the proposed candidates is being provided by
need to be selected and hired.      a Management Technical Assistance Agency.
Material Resources                  Adequate facilities and equipment are    The prior-Bank supported Project (PROMEB) is supporting the
still required for the UTEN.        availability of facilities and equipment.
Processes/practices                 The key function of the UTEN will be    Training in areas of team building, information sharing and alliance
its role in team building, sharing of   building will be permanently provided to the UTEN during the
information, and building alliances in   implementation of the Project. Annual institutional assessments of
favor of internationally  supported   the UTEN will monitor and evaluate the quality of its organization
education  programs, projects  and    and the impact on project implementation quality. Any adjustments
investments. If work practices are not   on UTEN  functions, organization and staffing will guarantee
conducive to these functions, the    appropriate functioning.
UTEN impact on improving the
quality of the education investment
portfolio can be jeopardized.
- 117-



Table 11
National Pedagogical University, Francisco Morazan
Universidad Pedagogica Nacional, Francisco Morazan (UPNFM)
Area of Capacity                 Capacity Gaps Identified                 Capacity Building Measures Taken/Agreed
Organization
The provision of in-service teacher   The Community Based Education Project will support the UPNFM in
The UPNFM has been developing its   training and extemal education quality   institutionalizing both university level in-service training for teachers
organization structure and capacity to    evaluation   need  to  be  fully   and the bi-annual standardized assessment to evaluate the quality of
become a key provided of pedagogical   institutionalized within the UPNFM.   basic education in 3rd and 6th grades. Incremental operational costs
training, at the university level, in    Up to now, these programs have been    will be financed on a declining basis to guarantee appropriate human
Honduras. Also, the Govemment has    dependent on extemal projects and    and physical resources for this activities.
invested in the creation of a unit for   financing.
the extemal evaluation of education
quality. As such, the University will
be working as a co-implementing
agency with the SE in the in-service
teacher  training   and   extemal
education    quality    evaluation
subcomponents.
Leadership and administration       The UPNFM  has developed a clear    The Project is tapping into the UPNFM's  efforts in education
vision of its goals and functions in the    excellence.  Continued support and technical assistance will be
education sector, mainly as a provided    provided to the University to guarantee the quality of its in-service
or high quality training for teachers,   training programs and evaluation quality. The leadership of the
and   educational  research   and    University will also benefit from regional exchange of lessons learned
evaluation.  The University should   in teacher training and leaming assessment, to be supported by the
continue with its improvement for   Project.
intemational  accreditation  of  its
programs.
Human Resources                     The University has appointed high    The Project will guarantee the continued quality of human resources
quality staff for its Unit of External   for the components executed by the UPNFM.
Evaluation of Education Quality
(UMCE).         Additionally,  the
University is building up the quality of
human resources to provide pertinent
in-service teacher training in areas
relevant to the Project: multigrade
teaching, inter-cultural and bilingual
education    and     school-based
management.
Material Resources                  The UPNFM has an extensive network    The in-service teacher training program will make use of university
of facilities and equipment nationwide,   facilities and satellites at the departmental and municipal levels.
which will be put to use in the
implementation of the in-service
training and education evaluation
components of the Project.
Processes/practices                 The highest risk related to work    The UPNFM will work in a coordinated manner with the SE for the
practices for the components to be    planning, programming, monitoring and evaluation of the teacher
implemented by the UPNFM is lack of   training components and education quality assessment. Especially,
coordination with the SE, especially    UMCE will guarantee that feedback to departments, school districts,
with the SE units responsible for   communities, and schools regarding student leaming is done in
teacher  training   and   student   coordination with the SE.
assessment.
-118-



-6LL -






i     BELIZE                             .       C ribbean    sea                     ----                                           
,   -T-                                                     - - HONDURS
I                                              L~~~~~~~~~~~~~A #MAHI
1 6'~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  GLIJF 0fHQfldLIre$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16
i00,                          y                                                         GR            DIO
RBA                RioL EMPIRCESNDOWNS
E   SAVDOR,.      A      -i                                 ; NC   AUA                       0   DEPCONDARTMENT CATALS N               -
To Sn Savarir J 1-    <         )        sT  Chnng                          NATIONA CAPIFOTAL
Gut li                                                                   r agla RlERu..  
Ci;o  igua~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)~I~ *pd o
O EPEOUE 4%                       PAZ b,- - - -0 25   50  75  100                              DDEPARTMENT BOUNDARiES c                              d
LR~             C  U   ,C |                 PI                          I       I        I           io -EL  INTERNATIONAL OUNDARIESO
'0\                                                                                - 86' 4 






u                                                                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
LU                       c
O0                     - I
f3e w                     9                                                 u 
o - O                    L                       0                                      
<                >   0g031S UE0 t                                                                  2>
_                                                                - t'
f                                                             l -a t&    
<1 
< DZ,-   0
LU                                                        - ------4  4           a
0 
_  .  _   t   W   AX                   f-~~~~~~~~~~~~~R   <  X   /            _~~~~< 
,t1J   0                                      0~3&~i~uC0          S    'FM--  a-fl
z, =ZZ ~600.<0z0   00
U                    <<3~~~~~~ z0z
tow                                                                         w w      w
' - J0
7~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/



