Report No. PID9538
Project Name                     Honduras-Community Based Education Project (@)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Primary Education
Project ID                       HNPE7397
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Ministry of Education, Tegucigalpa,
Honduras
Contact Person: Cristobal Rodriguez,
Director General de la Unidad de
Planeamiento y Evaluacion de Gestion
Tel: 504-220-1230/2228586/9901277(Cellular phone)
Fax: 504-220-1230
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                December 20, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         December 16, 2000
Projected Board Date             February 20, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Honduras has made considerable progress in primary education during the
past thirty years. Since 1970, enrollments in primary education have
tripled and, at 111 percent, gross primary enrollment is slightly higher
than the LAC average. Educational attainment is 4.2 years of formal
schooling per person, up from 3.8 years in 1990. Additionally, pre-primary
education has expanded from almost no coverage to reaching one-third of
children. The Ministry of Education has recently launched a successful
strategy, called the "Programa Hondureno de Educaci6n Comunitaria --
PROHECO", to partner with parents to support opening schools and to
supervise teacher performance (mainly attendance and school management) in
isolated rural communities. Notwithstanding these accomplishments,
however, a number of issues remain. Effects of Hurricane Mitch. Mitch
damaged an estimated 17t of the country's 9,548 primary schools and left
without school places to more than 170,000 students (10w of the basic
education student population). Those educational establishments that
weren't damaged had to be used as temporary shelters for those who had
lost their homes, resulting in further interruptions in service
provision. Total damage to the education sector was estimated at $28.1
million; repair and replacement costs were estimated to be $31.2 million.
The international community, including the World Bank, made resources
available immediately after the crisis to rebuild schools and to recover
basic educational materials. However, Hurricane Mitch exposed the
vulnerability of the education system to natural catastrophes and, mainly
its effects upon poor communities.Quality. Poor quality education and the
resulting low academic achievement of students are two of the most serious
problems facing the Honduran education system. The country's Education
Quality External Evaluation Unit (UMCE) conducted a general assessment (t
of right answers within specific competencies) in Math and Spanish (for



3rd and 6th graders) in a random sample of 568 schools in the country (7%
of total) and 17,638 students. In reading comprehension, the average
score for 3rd graders was 50% in urban schools and 38% in rural schools.
In grammatical rule, the average declined to 37% in urban schools and 31%
in rural schools. For 6th graders, the average Spanish scores, in the
same competencies, were 579, 49%, 44% and 359 respectively.    In Math,
third graders' average scores in standardized questions related to the
general property of numbers were 35% in urban areas and 31% in rural
areas; for problems related to numerical calculations and operations, the
average scores were 34% and 31% respectively.    For 6th graders, the
average math scores, in the same competencies, were 40%, 35%, 33% and 29%
respectively. Although, there is still no national standardized testing
for all schools, the results of the sample studied are alarming.
Honduran's participation in the recent UNESCO/OREALC Latin American and
Caribbean Achievement Assessment also confirm the problem of learning
quality of Honduras, placing the country in the lowest rank of the 11
countries evaluated. Problems in education quality can be due in part to
an irrelevant curriculum, lack of a formative evaluation system, shortages
of pertinent instructional materials, and poor quality of instruction.
Access to pre-primary education. While the percentage of students
enrolled in primary education is quite high in Honduras, pre-primary gross
enrollment totals only 31% of eligible children, as compared to 44% in
neighboring El Salvador and 84% in Jamaica (World Bank, 2000). Community
and volunteered based strategies have been supported by UNICEF and others,
including the Bank, but strategies to formalize and institutionalize
pre-school are still needed. Improvements in performance in the first
three grades of primary school can be linked to participation in
preschool. Thus, as a key quality intervention, the Government seeks to
expand preschool education, both through traditional and non-traditional
(mainly community and NGO supported) strategies.Service provision and
equity. Notwithstanding recent efforts to increase access to and equality
of education, these issues continue to affect Honduras's education system.
Educational opportunities are limited in rural areas (where it is
increasingly difficult to open schools, attract qualified teachers and
retain students) and for disadvantage groups such as ethnic minorities and
persons with special needs. The urban-rural differentials in learning (as
observed above in the results of the standardized tests by urban and rural
sectors) also call for targeted strategies for student learning within the
particular needs of rural schools.Institutional efficiency.     The
centralized institutional structure and the low capacity of the MOE to
administer the education system reduce the ability of schools to perform
efficiently and offer quality education services. Schools do not have the
means or incentives to improve. School accountability cannot be demanded,
as services have not been provided. Department and District offices are
at risk of becoming centralized local units that demand rather than
provide services to the school. The focus should now be on improving the
services decentralized institutions render schools. Schools should be
involved in identifying their needs, what services they require and how
they should be provided. Institutional assessment and institutional
building components should be focused and guided by school
needs.Government strategyEducation Priority Sector. The Government
assigns top priority to its education reform, viewing it both as a key
component of its longer-term poverty reduction strategy and as a critical
part of its vision of developing a dynamic and productive economy able to
compete in an increasingly globalize marketplace. In general, the
-2 -



increased national focus on education, the successful experiences with
community participation, and the demands for institutional accountability
augur a positive environment for educational reforms. National Education
Reform Consensus. To define a national strategy to deal with the
country's education sector issues (summarized above), the Government
called on a national dialogue to build consensus for educational reforms.
With representation from the private sector, NGOs, government agencies,
teacher unions, parents and other stakeholders, the consultations' main
objective was to initiate a process of broad national participation and
involvement in the education sector. Community Participation. An
additional foundation of the Government strategy has been community
participation. In March of 1999, the MOE launched a community based
program to make available teachers in isolated rural areas and to improve
their performance. The program, called PROHECO (Honduran Community
Education Program) forms parental committees (Community Education
Associations -- AECOs) to supervise their schools, pay teachers and
support school rehabilitation and maintenance. The program objective for
its 1st year of operations was the creation of 500 schools to provide
educational opportunities for approximately 25,000 rural students. The
original Program goal was the creation of 1,500 schools for approximately
70,000 students (approximately 15t of the overall basic education
population). So far close to 800 schools are functioning, given present
level of financial and management resources.
2. Objectives
The objective of the proposed education sector investment loan (the
project) is to improve the quality of education services for preschool and
grades 1-6 and to provide targeted education services to excluded and
poverty afflicted communities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank experience in preschool and basic education development in the
region.Bank experience in Honduras, both before and after Hurricane Mitch
testing many different ways to increase the impact of Bank supported
projects, the efficiency of government institutions and the transparency
of administrative procedures.Bank direct support in the launching of
PROHECO and facilitation to ex-change experiences in community
participation in education within Central America and region wide. Bank
on-going support to the Ministry of Education to strengthen the services
provided by its departmental and district offices and to facilitate
coordination with other social sector loans in the Bank and with other
international agencies/lenders.Bank support with rural education teaching
modalities, including multigrade teaching, active learning and student
representation.Successful experiences in community participation and
social monitoring of project inputs to schools.
4. Description
The project would implement various strategies to achieve the following
four objectives: (i) a pertinent application of the national curriculum
and pedagogical processes in these rural schools, supporting necessary
multigrade or intercultural and bilingual adaptations; (ii) attracting and
retaining teachers in rural schools, providing them with pertinent and
sustainable incentives; (iii) community and school-based management
support of rural schools, strengthening and expanding existing
experiences; and (iv) improved education services provided by education
-3 -



offices closer to rural schools (school districts and education
departmental offices).The strategies oriented at achieving the
above-mentioned objectives are divided in the following components of the
proposed Project: (i) Local Application of National Curriculum; (ii)
Equitable and Efficient Provision of Education Services with Community
Participation; (iii) Strengthening School-Based Management and (iv)
Strengthening of Decentralized Education Offices. I. LOCAL APPLICATION OF
NATIONAL CURRICULUMThe objective of this component is to support the
pertinent application of the national curriculum (which is being developed
in the country through the support of other donors and cooperation
agencies), especially in rural multigrade and intercultural and bilingual
schools. This objective will be accomplished via the following
sub-components and strategies:A. Validation of the National Curriculum for
Preschool and Lower Basic Education (grade 1 to 6) This sub-component
will support (i) the validation of the national curriculum reforms,
programs, methodologies, and tools for its implementation in rural and
intercultural and bilingual schools; (ii) the validation of pedagogical
strategies to address learning disabilities; and (iii) the coordination
for curriculum validation in preprimary and primary education schools in
poor urban areas not addressed by this project.B. Local Application of
Curriculum and Educational Materials for Preschool and Primary Rural
Schools This sub-component will support (i) the integration and
strengthening of various preschool modalities in the country, including
preschool formal centers, preschool grades in primary schools,
community-based centers and parental-based early childhood education; (ii)
provide the appropriate methodologies and didactic materials to strengthen
multigrade teaching, which is represented in more than 90- of rural
schools in the country; and (iii) provide the appropriate methodologies
and didactic materials to strengthen intercultural and bilingual
education, especially in rural indigenous and Garifuna communities
representing all nine ethnic groups in the country. C. Student Learning
Assessment Strategies This sub-component will support (i) the new learning
assessment and evaluation model within the decentralized levels of the
education system and teachers' associations; (ii) development and
distribution of student assessment guides for teachers in primary and
preschool levels based on the national and student self assessment
systems; (iii) dissemination of student learning and school development
results at the community and district levels; and (iv) external evaluation
of the quality of education through bi annual standardized assessments for
3rd and 6th graders and evaluation of innovative education programs such
as PROHECO, Community Based Preschool Services (CCPREB), Intercultural and
bilingual Education and others. D. In service Teacher Development and
Training Programs for Community-Based Education Strategies and Pedagogical
Methods Relevant to Rural and Intercultural and Bilingual CommunitiesThis
sub-component will support (i) in-service university training programs for
rural education teachers, district staff and teacher trainers with
specialization on multigrade methodologies, learning evaluation,
school-based management and/or intercultural and bilingual education; (ii)
professionalization programs for community-based volunteer teachers,
especially from preschool, PROHECO schools and intercultural and bilingual
schools; and (iii) on-the-job (in the classroom) training for rural
education teachers. II. EQUITABLE AND EFFICIENT PROVISION OF PRESCHOOL AND
BASIC EDUCATION SERVICES The objectives of this component are: (i) to
provide equitable access to basic education services (preschool and grades
1-6) for rural and remote areas and for intercultural bilingual
- 4 -



populations, both with traditionally limited access; and (ii) to provide
incentive mechanisms to attract and retain teachers in these communities.
These objectives will be accomplished via the following subcomponents:A.
Strengthening and Expansion of the Honduras' Community Education Program
(PROHECO) This sub-component will support (i) creating 1,600 new
sections of lower basic education (including sections for grades 1-3 and
grades 4-6, as needed) and 800 new preschool sections in either existing
school without one or more of these sections or creating new schools. It
is expected that at least 800 new schools will be created, which added to
the existing 800 schools operating now will total 1,600 PROHECO schools by
the end of the project.B. Creation of Intercultural and Bilingual Schools
with Community Participation and Parental Involvement Strategies This
sub-component will support (i) creating 400 new sections of lower basic
education (including sections for grades 1-3 and grades 4-6, as needed)
and 200 new preschool sections with strategies similar to PROHECO in at
least 200 intercultural and bilingual communities. The Project will
implement this sub-component through adapting PROHECO strategies to form
parental committees in the 9 ethnic communities of Honduras, support them
in selecting teachers within their cultural and linguistic communities,
and providing the transfers to be managed by the parental committees to
support paying teachers and buying non-durable schools materials (chalk,
paper, pencils, etc.). Also the Project will emphasize that the
curricular, pedagogical, learning assessment and teacher training
interventions pertinent for intercultural and bilingual education
(detailed in Component I above) reach and impact these schools.C.
Strengthening and Expansion of Community-Based and NGO Supported Preschool
Centers This sub-component will support the on-going creation of about
400 preschool centers supported and managed by civil society actors (NGOs,
churches, foundations, etc.). This partnership with civil society exists
already in Honduras, through a program known as CEPENF (Centros de
Educacion Prescolar No Formal).III. SCHOOL BASED MANAGEMENT FOR RURAL
COMMUNITIES
This component aims at fostering an effective organization strategy in
rural communities and schools to improve both the efficiency and
effectiveness of their schools. In addition it expands the organizational
model of PROHECO--by which parental committees are organized to open
school services in their communities--adapting it to the needs and
existing organizational structures of existing traditional rural schools,
most of them also multigrade (one, two or three teachers attending all 6
primary grades).    Incentives and support for school improvements through
the school governments are achieved by providing seed financial
resources--managed by the association--to complement community
contributions for the implementation of self assessed and planned
activities in support of the school and of the education provided. A.
Development of a School-Based Planning and Community Participation System
in the Rural SectorThis subcomponent will support (i) the organization of
school governments in both PROHECO communities and in other rural
communities with traditional multigrade schools through the creation of
Associations for Local Education Development (Asociaciones de Desarrollo
Local - ADELs); and (ii) the training of members of the school
governments--and parents in general--to improve their school management
capacity, education improvement planning, and administration of financial
transfers for school activities and improvements. B. Design and
Implementation of the School Education Projects (Projectos Educativos de
Centro - PEC) This subcomponent will support (i) planning of school
- 5 -



improvement activities by AECOs and ADEL through the development of school
projects (Proyectos Educativos de Centro -- PEC), (ii) transferring
financial resources to these rural schools and communities to carry out
their school development plans, and (iii) strengthening and
institutionalizing the system to transfer financial resources to schools
and communities developed by PROHECO and in operation during the last two
years. IV. STRENGTHENING OF DECENTRALIZED EDUCATION OFFICESA.
Strengthening Capacity of Education Districts to Support Curricular
Applications and Community and School-Based Management This sub-component
will support (i) completion of the basic infrastructure needs of the
existing 90 school districts in the country and of the additional 32
districts that will start their operations in 2001 (for a total of 122
school supervisory districts); (ii) to provide equipment (computers,
furniture and vehicles) to support districts' promotion, organization,
training and technical assistance activities with schools and communities;
(iii) to review and strengthen the school district professional teams by
contracting and training specialized staff on curricular application,
multigrade teaching, intercultural and bilingual education, community
involvement and school-based management; and (iv) to design and implement
a community-based monitoring system, including inventories and quality
checks of inputs received by schools and communities. B.      Strengthening
Capacity of Education Departmental Offices to Plan Educational Needs and
to Monitor Community-Based Education Programs This sub-component will
support (i) the design and implementation of an information system, that
includes education statistics, human resources, financial information and
school maps for the programs financed by the project (PROHECO, CCPREB, and
EIB) and (ii) the training and acquisition and installation of equipment
to improve the administrative efficiency of the Departmental offices in
monitoring and evaluating results of education programs; (iii) a financial
administrative system to monitor, legalize and audit financial transfers
and inputs through the various decentralized management programs at the
school, community and district levels.C. Support Ministry of Education to
Develop Appropriate Policies and Guidelines for Rural and Intercultural
and Bilingual EducationThe Project will be coordinated by the Ministry of
Education, in particular by the Unidad de Transformaci6n Educativa
(UTEN). This sub-component will support the MOE to provide appropriate
policies and guidelines to departments, districts, communities and schools
for rural education, multigrade teaching, intercultural and bilingual
education, and school and community based management.     The Project will
provide long-term technical assistance to the key MOE units involved in
the Project. Also, the Project will support the UTEN to strengthen its
functions of coordination of all ongoing processes related to the
education transformation of the country, especially of investments in
education quality, teacher development and education management activities
being supported by the different Projects implementing the education
reforms in the country.
l.Education Reforms Definition
2. Targeted Basic Education Services
3. Increasing Institutional Efficiency
4. Operating Costs and Contingencies
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               6.5
-6-



IBRD
IDA                      43.5
Total Project Cost       50
6. Implementation
The Secretary of Public Education (SEP) would have overall responsibility
for coordinating the project, through its Education Transformation Unit.
A small and highly specialized team of financial and procurement managers
will be responsible for leading Bank and country procedures on the use of
credit funds within this Unit. Nonetheless, a large part of project
resources would be executed by school and community committees. Under the
Program PROHECO, Honduras has had already experience in transfering
education resources to parental committees. The evaluation and
feasibility studies during project preparation have shown a highly
efficient and transparent use of these resources at the community level.
The project will be implemented over a period of five years, June 2001 to
July 2006 (proposed loan closing date, December 30, 2006).
7. Sustainability
Financial sustainability of the Project is a major factor studied. The
fiscal impact analysis showed that the investments were sustainable given
present and projected (10-year) budgets for the education sector. The
proven community-based strategies would also increased the effective and
efficient use at the school level of the investments supported by the IDA
credit and government funds.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Existing Bank-Supported Education Project in Honduras -- The lessons
learned and reflected in the project design are drawn from experience in
similar projects successfully implemented by Bank-funded projects in Latin
America and elsewhere, as well as from the mid-term evaluation of the
on-going Honduras Basic Education Project (PROMEB).A review of preliminary
results of the PROHECO program indicates that the goals of increasing
access to education in rural areas have been surpassed for the first year
of program operation. In 1999, 8,000 more students were given access to
education services, 200 more teachers and 786 more parents were trained,
146 more AECOs were developed and functioning, and 6 more schools were
created than were originally planned for that year. The year goal was 500
community organizations formed, 500 schools functioning, 1000 teachers
trained. The aggregated total of PROHECO schools in the country is 809.
Also, quantitative impacts include improved community commitment to
education of their children and increased support for rural teachers. Good
evidence of the benefits PROHECO substantiate continuing Bank support in
the proposed new project.Other Projects in The Central American Region --
Central American countries are increasing sharing lessons learned in
education. The community participation model by which parents manage
schools, pay teachers and supervise student and teacher attendance was
originated in El Salvador (EDUCO Program). The Salvadorian experience has
provided a framework from which to develop community participation
programs in other countries -- Guatemala and Honduras. Although, each
model is eventually different based on local context needs, in general
lessons and risks can be assessed based on each other experiences.
Concrete examples include the traditional teacher union oppositions to a
public education model that is not well understood and the need to
institutionalize support for community participation within the legal and
-7 -



financial framework of the formal education system.Projects in Latin
America and Elsewhere -- Education reforms, community participation,
quality improvements, early childhood care and education, among others,
are issues being addressed by other Bank supported projects world wide.
Within Latin America, examples of school based management interventions in
Brazil, Uruguay and Colombia will be studied. Also early childhood care
education (ECCE) programs in Mexico, Cuba (not Bank supported), Trinidad
and Tobago and Brazil are identified as possible examples of non-formal,
community based ECCE strategies.     Rural education and multigrade teaching
lessons learned can be drawn from Escuela Nueva in Colombia, NEU in
Guatemala and Escola Nova in Brazil. Teacher training programs in Chile
and Cuba have been presented as important staff development strategies to
draw lessons from.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         Major: No major environmental issues will arise
from these project.Other:          Environmental category:   C
11. Contact Point:
Government of Honduras:
Mr. Cristobal Rodriguez
General Director of Planning
Ministry of Education of Honduras
Telephone:   (504) 220 1230
Fax:   (504) 220 1230
Task Manager: Mr. Joel E. Reyes
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473 8536
Fax:   (202) 522 1202
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending, January 12, 2001.
- 8 -



