                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR0000714




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-34970 IDA-3497A JPN-53767)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR32.3 MILLION
                       (US$ 41.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                                      FOR A

                  COMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATION PROJECT




                                   June 24, 2009




Human Development Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective 05/08/2008)

                         Currency Unit = Lempiras
                               1.00 = US$ .05
                              US$ 1.00 = 19.14

                               FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 ­ December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADEL       Local Education Development Association (in traditional schools)
           (Asociaciones de Desarrollo Educativo Local)
AECO       Parent School Associations (in PROHECO schools)
           (Asociaciones Educativas Comunitarias)
CAD        Teacher Learning Center
           (Centro de Aprendizaje Docente)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CCIE       Community-based Pre-primary Experience Program
           (Centros Comunitarios de Educación Inicial)
CCEPREB    Community-based Preschool Services
           (Centros Comunitarios de Educación Prebásica)
CEPENF     Original Non-Formal/Community-based Preschool Centers
           (Centro de Educación Preescolar No Formal)
CNB        National Basic Curricula
           (Currículo Nacional Básico)
DCNB       Design of the National Basic Curricula
           (Diseño del Curriculo Nacional Básico)
EFA-FTI    Education for All ­ Fast Track Initiative
EIB        Intercultural Bilingual Education
           (Educación Intercultural Bilingüe)
FID        Pre-service Teacher Training
           (Formación Inicial de Docentes)
FONAC      Foro Nacional de Convergencia
GOH        Government of Honduras
IADB       Inter-American Development Bank
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA        International Development Association
IPDP       Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
IPP        Indigenous Peoples Plan
INE        National Institute of Statistics
           (Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas)
INICE      National Institute for Research and Training
           (Instituto Nacional de Investigación y Capacitación Educativa)
INPREMA    Teachers' Pension Institute
           (Instituto Nacional de Previsión del Magisterio)

MERECE          External Donors Round Table
                Mesa Redonda de Cooperación Externa
MIDE            Integrated Program for Student Improvement - USAID
                Programa de Mejoramiento Integral del Desarrollo Estudiantil
MOE             Ministry of Education
MOF             Ministry of Finance
MIS             Management Information System
NGO             Nongovernmental Organization
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PFC             In-service Teacher Training
                (Programa de Formación Continua)
PEC             School Education Projects
                (Proyectos Educativos de Centro)
PROHECO         Community Education Program for Honduras
                (Programa Hondureño de Educación Comunitaria)
PRONEEAAH       National Education Program for Indigenous and Afro-descendents
                Programa Nacional para Educación para las Etnias Autóctonas y
                Afro-antillanas de Honduras
SINECE          Quality of Education National Assessment System
                (Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de la Calidad Educativa)
SIAFI           Ministry of Finance's Financial Management System
                (Sistema de Administración Financiera de la Secretaria de Finanzas)
SIARHD          Human Resources Education Information System
                (Sistema de Información de Recursos Humanos Docentes)
UAF             Administrative and Financial Project Unit
                (Unidad Administrativa y Financiera del Proyecto)
UEP             Project Implementation Unit
                (Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto)
UMCE            Office of Measuring Education Quality ­ University Francisco Morazán
                (Unidad de Medición de la Calidad Educativa)
UPEG            Office of Planning and Evaluation
                (Unidad de Planeación y Evaluación de la Gestión)
UPNFM           National Pedagogical University Francisco Morazán
                (Universidad Pedagógica Nacional Francisco Morazán)
UTEN            Education Transformation Technical Unit
                (Unidad Técnica de Transformación de la Educación Nacional)


       Vice President: Pamela Cox
      Country Director: Laura Frigenti
      Sector Manager: Eduardo Velez
        Sector Leader: Laura Rawlings
     ICR Team Leader: Andréa C. Guedes

                                            HONDURAS
                         Community-based Education Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 14
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 29
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 32
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 33
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 34
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 44
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 45
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 47
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 48
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 49
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 54
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 55
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     HN COMMUNITY-
Country:                Honduras              Project Name:          BASED EDUCATION
                                                                     PROJECT
                                                                     IDA-34970,IDA-
Project ID:             P007397               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     3497A,TF-53767
ICR Date:               06/30/2008            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     HONDURAS
Original Total
                        XDR 32.3M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 32.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/27/2000    Effectiveness:       02/18/2002          02/18/2002
Appraisal:             12/11/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/10/2001    Mid-term Review:     02/14/2005          02/14/2005
                                     Closing:             12/31/2006          12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  High
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                  Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               18                18
Pre-primary education                                           38                38
Primary education                                               38                38
Sub-national government administration                           6                 6


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                              Primary
Indigenous peoples                                             Primary         Primary
Participation and civic engagement                            Secondary       Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                        David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Adrian Fozzard                    D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:           Eduardo Velez Bustillo            Xavier E. Coll
Project Team Leader:      Andrea C. Guedes                  Joel E. Reyes
ICR Team Leader:          Andrea C. Guedes
ICR Primary Author:       Maria R. Puech Fernandez
                          Andrea C. Guedes




                                              ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve the quality of preschool and lower basic education (grade 1-6 ) in targeted rural
areas in Honduras, including the improvement of the quality of intercultural and bilingual
education in indigenous communities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval         Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Increased enrollment rates in rural preschool and lower basic education by 5 and
                8 percentage points respectively
                Primary GER in rural
                areas = 103.6             Preschool:                        Primary GER:
                                                                            116%
Value           Primary NER in rural      increase by 5                     Primary NER:
quantitative or areas = 82.5              percentage points                 93.7%
Qualitative)    Preschool GER in rural    Primary: increase
                areas = 23                by 8 percentage                   Preschool GER: n/a

                Preschool NER in rural points                               Preschool NER:

                areas = 23                                                  24.7%

Date achieved 12/01/2002                  12/31/2007                        03/07/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Reduce repetition and drop-out rate in rural schools
                Repetition rate in rural
                schools: 9.8%                                               Repetition rate:

Value           Drop-out rate (not                                          8.9%

quantitative or included in PAD): 3.4%    Not specified in                  Drop-out rate: 2.8%

Qualitative)    Gross primary completionPAD                                 Gross prim

                rate in rural areas: 68%                                    completion rate in
                                                                            rural areas: 73.4%

Date achieved 12/01/2001                  12/31/2007                        03/07/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Improved performance in standardized test scores in Spanish and Mathematics
                for 3rd and 6th grade students from mainly rural multigrade schools
Value           Grade 6 Spanish: 40.7                                       Grade 6 Spanish
quantitative or Grade 6 Math: 37.5        not specified in                  Nat: 44
Qualitative)    Grade 3 Spanish: 36.1     PAD                               Grade 6 Span.



                                                iii

               Grade 3 Math: 41.6                                            Rural: 40.6
                                                                             Grade 6 Math Nat:
                                                                             39.2
                                                                             Grade 6 Math
                                                                             Rural: 36.5
                                                                             Grade 3 Span Nat:
                                                                             39.2
                                                                             Grade 3 Span
                                                                             Rural: 36.2
                                                                             Grade 3 Math Nat:
                                                                             43.5
                                                                             Grade 3 Math
                                                                             Rural: 41.6
Date achieved 12/30/2002                   12/31/2006                        03/07/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Increased early entry in rural schools
Value
quantitative or 50%                        not specified in                  62.6%
Qualitative)                               PAD

Date achieved 12/30/2002                   12/31/2007                        03/07/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 5 :   Improved teacher productivity measured by number of days worked --official
                calendar has 200 days.
                                                                             180 days
Value                                      not specified in                  PROHECO
quantitative or 110 days                                                     teachers
Qualitative)                               PAD                               170 days official
                                                                             teachers
Date achieved 12/30/2002                   12/31/2007                        03/07/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Creation of PROHECO Schools and Training of AECOs in 600 communities in
                rural areas and in 200 intercultural and bilingual communities

Value                                      600 PROHECO                       800 PROHECO

(quantitative   0                          schools and 200                   schools

or Qualitative)                            EIB PROHECO                       252 EIB
                                           schools.                          PROHECO schools



                                                iv

Date achieved 12/30/2002                  12/31/2007                       03/07/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Hiring at least 720 new PROHECO teachers and 200 new bilingual PROHECO
               teachers
Value                                     720 teachers                     1,390
(quantitative  0                          200 bilingual                    252 bilingual
or Qualitative)                           teachers                         teachers
Date achieved 12/30/2002                  12/31/2007                       03/07/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  Establishing at least 200 new AECOS and PROHECOs in bilingual
               communities.
Value
(quantitative  0                          200 schools                      252
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2002                  12/30/2007                       03/07/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Establishment and legalization of at least 2,800 ADELs in rural schools and 400
               ADELs in bilingual schools

Value                                     2,800 ADELs in                   3,774 ADELS
(quantitative  0                          rural schools                    407 ADELS in EIB
or Qualitative)                           400 ADEls in
                                          bilingual schools                schools

Date achieved 12/30/2002                  12/31/2007                       03/07/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               Financing and implementation of:

Indicator 5 :  1,400 PECSs in PROHECO schools
               2,800 PECSs in official schools
               800 PECs in bilingual schools
Value
(quantitative  0                          5,000 PECSs total                5,934
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2002                  12/31/2007                       03/07/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
 1    10/23/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
 2    05/24/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.50
 3    11/25/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.72
 4    06/02/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  4.54
 5    11/13/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  8.49
 6    05/05/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                16.50
 7    11/23/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                29.07
 8    04/29/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                37.09
 9    11/11/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                39.43
10    03/21/2006        Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory         41.45
11    06/20/2006        Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory         42.59
12    08/18/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         42.59
13    11/13/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         42.59
14    05/12/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         42.59
15    07/31/2007   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                42.59
16    12/03/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         46.60
17    03/19/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         47.30



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                         vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


Sector information. At the time of appraisal, with a population of 6 million people and a GDP
per capita of US$730, Honduras was one the poorest country in Latin American and the
Caribbean region1. In 1999, total education expenditures amounted to 5.2 percent of GDP, or
21.4 percent of government expenditure, higher than the neighboring Central American
countries. The country's education sector had experienced gains in primary enrollment and in
the number of years of schooling, with the expansion benefiting mainly the poor. Net primary
education enrollment reached 95 percent in urban areas and 85 percent in rural areas, and years
of schooling reached an average of 5.1 in 1999, compared to 4.7 in 1989. Despite progress,
Honduras still faced considerable educational challenges, including unequal education
outcomes, poor quality, limited access to pre-primary education, limited educational
opportunities in rural areas, and institutional inefficiencies. Finally, the country was still
suffering from the destruction caused by Hurricane Mitch (1998), which caused damage to the
education sector estimated in US$28.1 million.


The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS-19893 HO) targeted poverty reduction focusing on three
development themes: (i) reducing poverty and enhancing social development to strengthen
human capital and social safety nets; (ii) sustainability through macroeconomic stability,
improved governance, and state decentralization and modernization; and (iii) reviving growth to
ensure economic recovery and shifting the economy into a higher growth path. The Honduras
Community Education Project supported the first two goals of the CAS by promoting better
coverage and higher quality of education in the neediest areas, and by seeking to reduce
inequalities between rural and urban communities. The Project also sought to deepen education
decentralization strategies through the creation and strengthening of community-level education
associations.

IDA had been supporting Honduras' efforts in the education sector through the Basic Education
Project (PROMEB IDA/26940 ­ completed in December 2000) which focused on improving
the quality of basic education services. Many lessons drawn from the implementation of
PROMEB were taken into consideration during preparation of this credit.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objective of the Community Based Education Project was to improve the quality of
preschool and lower basic education (grades 1-6) in targeted rural areas in Honduras, including
the improvement of the quality of intercultural and bilingual education in indigenous
communities.

The Project's key performance indicators were the following:




1By 2006 the Honduras population was estimated at 7.2 million and its per capita income at US$1,190.




                                                       1

    · Increased enrollment rates in rural preschools and lower basic education by 5 and 8
        percentage points, respectively.
    · Improved internal efficiency indicators in rural schools: (i) increased early entry and
        promotion; and (ii) reduced repetition and drop out rates in rural schools (baseline data
        1999).
    · Improved performance in standardized test scores in Spanish and Mathematics for 3rd
        and 6th grade students from mainly rural multigrade schools (baseline data 1999).
    · Improved student evaluation results of social achievements and self-esteem (non-
        cognitive development).
    · Improved rural school teachers' productivity measured by attendance and days of work
        (baseline data 1999).
    · Increase availability and relevance of education learning materials for rural schools.
    ·   Positive changes in perceptions, attitude and behavior of key school-based actors:
        principals, teachers, students, parents and the community.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no revisions to the Project's Development Objective and key performance indicators
during implementation. However, as explained in section 1.6 below, the scope of the Project was
broadened, both to adjust to changing Government needs as well as to make use of additional
resources resulting from the appreciation of the Special Drawling Rights (SDR) during project
implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Project's target population included the following groups: (i) poor and marginalized rural
communities; (ii) preschool students (ages 5-6); (iii) all of the nine indigenous and Afro-
Honduran groups of Honduras; and (iv) overage and late-entry students.

By expanding access to basic education services at the preschool and primary education levels
(grades 1-6) the Project expected to directly benefit approximately 43,800 new school-aged
children ­including children from the nine ethnic groups-- in targeted rural areas. Additionally,
around 4,000 rural communities, including 800 intercultural and bilingual groups, were to be
organized to support and monitor school performance. The Project also expected to indirectly
benefit all primary level students through the participatory reforms supported by it.

Due to the expansion in project's scope, many of the Project's activities reached all primary
education students. By Project completion2, the Ministry of Education reported a total of 211,824
students enrolled in preschools at the national level (of which 106,420 in rural areas), compared
to 97,093 in 2003. At the primary level, the number of students enrolled in rural areas increased
from 627,425 to 777,690 between 2002 and 2006. All students enrolled in preschool and primary
level benefited from the new Basic National Curriculum (Currículo Nacional Básico - CNB)
supported under the Project, and all primary level students received new textbooks in
Mathematics, language, natural and social sciences.        Additionally, all bilingual students in
preschool through 3rd grade benefited from the adaptations for intercultural and multilingual



22006 data.




                                                  2

students, and most received education materials and textbooks. Finally, teachers at both levels
received training financed by the credit.

1.5 Original Components
The Project had four components:

Component 1. Local Application of National Curriculum (US$9.71 million equivalent of
total Project cost).      The component aimed to support the implementation of the national
curriculum in rural multigrade, intercultural and bilingual schools, through the following sub-
components and strategies:

A. Validation of the National Curriculum for Preschool and Lower Basic Education (grades
     1 to 6) by Rural Teachers. This sub-component was designed to support rural teacher's
     feedback regarding: (i) national curriculum reforms, programs, methodologies and tools for
     its implementation in rural, intercultural and bilingual school; and (ii) pedagogical strategies
     to address learning disabilities.          In addition, this sub-component would support the
     coordination of a teachers and education stakeholders' validation process in poor urban
     areas not addressed by this project.

B. Effective Application of Curriculum and Appropriate Educational Materials for
     Preschool and Primary Rural Schools. This sub-component was designed to: (i) support
     the integration and implementation of various rural multigrade teaching and preschool
     modalities in the country; (ii) provide the appropriate methodologies and didactic materials
     to implement multigrade pedagogical strategies in rural schools; and (iii) provide the
     appropriate methodologies and didactic materials to implement intercultural and bilingual
     education strategies in rural indigenous communities representing all nine ethnic groups in
     the country.

C. Student Learning Assessment and Education Quality Evaluation Strategies. This sub-
     component was intended to: (i) support design and implementation of a validation learning
     assessment; (ii) develop and distribute student assessment guides for teachers in primary
     and preschool levels; (iii) disseminate the student learning results to districts and
     communities; (iv) finance external bi-annual standardized assessments for 3rd and 6th
     graders; and (v) evaluate innovative community-based education programs such as
     PROHECO, Community Based Preschool Services (CCPREB) and intercultural and
     Bilingual Education (EIB).

D. In-service Teacher Development and Training Programs.                        This sub-component was
     designed to support: (i) in-service university training programs for rural teachers, district
     staff and teacher trainers; (ii) quality enhancement programs for community-based
     volunteers supporting teaching in preschool and intercultural and bilingual schools; and (iii)
     in-classroom training and follow up for rural teachers.

Component 2. Community-Based Provision of Preschool and Basic Education Services
(US$14.49 million equivalent of total Project cost).                 The component aimed to expand
PROHECO3, a community-based education program for preschoolers through 6th grade in rural



3In March 1999 Honduras launched PROHECO ­ a community-based education program to attract teachers to rural
isolated areas. The program formed parental committees (Community Education Associations-AECOs) to open
schools, hire and pay teachers, and support school improvements and maintenance. During the first year, the program



                                                         3

and remote communities, including areas with intercultural bilingual populations. It had two
sub-components:

A. Strengthening and Expansion of the Honduras Community Education Program
    (PROHECO). This sub-component was designed to support: (i) organizing community
    education councils (AECOs) in 600 remote communities; (ii) creating new PROHECO
    schools in those communities; and (iii) attracting and retaining at least 720 new basic
    education teachers (grades 1-6) and 600 preschool volunteers in these new schools.

B. Creation of Intercultural and Bilingual Schools using the PROHECO Model for
    Community Participation and Parental Involvement. This sub-component was designed
    to adapt PROHECO strategies to the education needs of the nine ethnic communities of
    Honduras.        It would support:         (i) creating new PROHECO schools in at least 200
    intercultural and bilingual communities; and (ii) attracting and retaining 200-EIB trained
    lower basic education teachers, 400 preschool volunteers (200 of them in multicultural
    bilingual schools - EIB). Financial transfers, to be managed by parental committees, would
    support paying teachers, volunteers and purchasing non-durable school materials.

Component 3.          School-Based Management for Rural Communities (US$9.96 million
equivalent of total Project cost). This component aimed at creating a school organization
strategy in rural areas through the involvement of principals, teachers, parents, and students to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their schools. It intended to adapt the PROHECO
model to the needs and existing organizational structure of traditional rural schools. It had three
sub-components:

A. Development of a School-Based Planning and Community Participation System in the
    Rural Sector. This sub-component was designed to: (i) support the organization of school
    councils in rural communities for traditional multigrade schools (called ADELs ­
    Asociaciones de Desarrollo Educativo Local); and (ii) train school council members to
    improve school management capacity, education planning, and administration of financial
    transfers for school improvement activities.

B. School-Based Design and Implementation of School Improvement Projects. This sub-
    component was designed to support: (i) planning of school improvement activities by
    AECOs and ADELs through the development of school projects (Proyectos Educativos de
    Centro - PECs); (ii) transferring financial resources to AECOs and ADELs to implement
    their PECs; and (iii) training on school improvement to teachers and parents through
    teachers' self-help groups (Centros de Aprendizaje Docente) and workshops for parents
    (Escuelas para Padres).

Component 4. Strengthening of Institutional Support for Community Participation and
School-Based Management Program (US$11.23 million equivalent of total Project cost).
This component was designed to strengthen the Ministry of Education including its
decentralized offices (Departmental Education Offices and School Districts) to guarantee




aimed to create 500 rural schools. In its second year, PROHECO enrollment grew and about 800 schools were
functioning at the time of project preparation. The program was supported under the IDA financed Basic Education
Project (IDA-26940).




                                                         4

effective support for community participation and school-based management strategies for the
rural education sector in Honduras. This component had three sub-components:

A. Central Support of the Community Participation and School-based Management System
    in the Rural Sector. This sub-component would: (i) strengthen the central units of the
    Ministry of Education which support school organization and community participation in
    the rural sector; and (ii) support the Unidad Técnica de Transformación de la Educación
    Nacional (UTEN), which would coordinate new education investment programs and
    manage the national Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign for
    education reforms.

B. Strengthening the Capacity of Departmental Education Offices to Plan Educational
    Needs and to Monitor Community-Based Education Programs. This component would:
    (i) support the design and implementation of an information system for the programs
    financed by the Project (PROHECO, Multicultural Bilingual Education - EIB and Preschool
    Centers - CCPREB); (ii) finance the training, acquisition and installation of equipment to
    improve the administrative efficiency of departmental offices in monitoring and evaluating
    results of education programs; and (iii) establish a financial administrative system to
    monitor, legalize and audit financial transfers for school improvements channeled directly
    to schools, communities and education districts.

C. Strengthening Capacity of Education Districts to support Curricular Applications and
    Community and School-Based Management. This sub-component would finance: (i) the
    completion of the basic infrastructure needs of the 86 school districts that have the largest
    percentage of rural, intercultural and bilingual schools; (ii) provision of equipment
    (computers, furniture and vehicles) to support these districts new role in the promotion,
    organization, training and technical assistance activities for community participation and
    school-based management; and (iii) activities to strengthen the school district professional
    teams so they could support multigrade teaching, intercultural and bilingual education,
    community involvement and school-based management.

A total of around US$2.41 equivalent was unallocated at the time of project approval.

1.6 Revised Components

The credit agreement was not revised during the life of the Project but components had their
scope changed.

Component 1 had its scope widened. Originally designed to support the validation of the
national curriculum for Grades 1-6, this component ended up financing most of its elaboration
and validation as well as its adaptation to bilingual and intercultural contexts. During project
preparation it was expected that the CNB would have been finalized by the time the Project was
ready to be implemented. However, by the time the Project became effective, there was limited
progress in the design of the new curriculum and the Government requested IDA's support with it.
The Project financed the finalization of the CNB including producing all the essential guidelines
for specific areas (multigrade, intercultural and bilingual and special education) and adapting the
learning materials and textbooks. It also financed the training of teachers on the new curriculum
and textbooks and learning materials for all students grades 1-6.

Component 2 also financed activities not originally foreseen at project design. In 2002 it was
agreed that this component would finance the creation and operation of "preparatory" schools


                                                 5

(Centros Communitarios de Pre-Básica ­ CCPREB) during the months of December and January
every year to prepare preschool students who were to enter first grade. Additionally, due to the
high demand by rural communities, the Project financed a far greater number (about 25 percent
more) of rural schools and teachers than originally planned.

Component 3 maintained its scope but financed a greater number of school development projects
(PECs). This was due to a joint Government/IDA decision to allocate additional funds resulting
from the SDR exchange rate appreciation to the PECs.

Component 4 experienced changes as well due to the institutional changes introduced by the new
administration in 2002. The UTEN ­ created in 2001 as an effectiveness condition and as a result
of a popular consultation carried out in 2001 under the FONAC (Foro Nacional de
Convergencia) ­ was disabled. The incoming administration considered UTEN's functions an
overlap with those of the main departments in the Ministry. The Government pursued the
objective of improving the coordination among its programs and multilaterals and donors through
the work of each technical unit in the Ministry. At the central level, there was strengthening of
the human capacity through the hiring and training of coordinators for the technical units to
support the implementation of the national curriculum. At the same time, there was less emphasis
on the strengthening information systems at the departmental level since the IADB and the
German Development Agency (GTZ) were also financing these interventions. Finally, there was
an increase in the number of promotores (agents of change) at the local level to support the
implementation of PROHECO schools, ADELs and EIB schools.

1.7 Other significant changes

Education For All ­ Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI). Honduras became part of the EFA-FTI
in October 2002. As the head of the donors' cooperating round table (Mesa de Cooperantes),
IDA played a crucial role in supporting Honduras to comply with the requirements to join the
EFA-FTI initiative and be eligible for funds for its education sector. Through direct technical
assistance and financing additional technical assistance, the IDA team closely collaborated with
the Government and donors to prepare a sector-wide development plan (focusing on improving
6th grade completion in the country) and defining the alignment and harmonization guidelines for
donors. The team also supported Government's efforts to consult with key stakeholders and gain
broad ownership of this plan. Finally, IDA was an important interlocutor among different donors,
seeking harmonization and support for an education strategy.

Implementation of EFA-FTI heavily relied on donors' involvement and support, particularly as
most donors have country offices and were more involved in providing on-going support to the
Ministry. Implementation was not without tension, as donors frequently questioned why IDA
funds were never part of the pooled arrangement, and donors strongly opposed to the use of
consultants to implementation EFA. As IDA originally financed most of the start-up cost of EFA
­including the establishment of an EFA unit and its staffing--donors perceived that IDA's
contribution was not favoring institutional development. In early 2007, when the Ministry
renewed the contract of many consultants in the EFA unit--against a previous agreement with
donors--donors incorrectly believed that IDA funds were being used for that purpose, creating
further tensions.

As an EFA-FTI country, Honduras committed to achieve a set of education goals by the year
2015. Given that those goals were consistent with the Project's PDO, IDA agreed to the
allocation of US$5 million equivalent in credit funds to EFA-FTI specific activities. About US$3
million equivalent of those resources were allocated to: training and workshops, technical


                                                 6

assistance at all levels, furnishing and equipment of the EFA central unit, vehicles for supervision,
materials for training, and consultants for the EFA unit. The remaining funds were allocated to
the purchase of textbooks and school materials. EFA-FTI donor funds started financing some
activities originally contemplated under the Project, thus freeing up resources to increase the
scope of other activities.

Appreciation of the Special Drawing Rights (SDR) in relation to the US dollar (US$). There
was an increase in the amount of resources under the Credit due to the appreciation of the SDR in
relation to the U.S. dollar. The original credit amount increased from US$41.5 million equivalent
to US$47.3 million equivalent by Project completion. All of the additional Credit resources were
spent by Project completion on: (i) textbooks and teacher guides for natural and social sciences
for grades 1-6 for all schools in the country; (ii) school development projects (PECs); and (iii)
activities that had their scope increased.

Project Extension. The Project was extended for 12 months until December 31 2007, to allow
for the carrying out of the International Competitive Bidding (ICB) process to purchase science
textbooks and teacher guides with the additional funds resulting from the appreciation of the SDR.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Ownership and participation from the Government. The idea of involving the community in
the delivery of education services in rural areas originated with the Government of Honduras
(GoH) after interactions with the Government of El Salvador and getting acquainted with their
EDUCO model.          The Ministry of Education was looking for ways to reach remote rural
communities, where it had difficulties in attracting and retaining traditional teachers.
Furthermore, the community model enabled the Government to hire teachers without the benefits
and cost of traditional teachers. Likewise, evidence from neighboring El Salvador showed that
such model promoted accountability of teachers. The model was applied to Honduras starting in
1999 on a small scale and the Government later requested IDA's support to expand it. The
Government (i) nominated a team of specialists formed by Ministry staff and local consultants to
design    PROHECO,        including   carrying    out the  social,   technical,   institutional and
economic/financial feasibility studies; and (iv) created the institutional infrastructure to manage
the program at the central and local levels. The GoH also requested IDA's technical assistance
for the feasibility studies required to establish PROHECO, and later to finance its expansion.

Preparation was highly participatory and included important background analysis. Project
preparation included key analyses to better design intervention strategies. In addition to a social
consultation carried out in 2000 under FONAC (Foro Nacional de Convergencia), the
Government and IDA carried out multiple consultations with stakeholders. The feedback from
consultations was incorporated into project design. A Rapid Rural Assessment was conducted in
November 2000, a joint effort between the Government and IDA. Four teams of social scientists
visited 9 communities in 11 departments. The objective of this assessment was to review the
pertinence of existing pilots of PROHECO and EIB as well as the feasibility of expanding these
to new communities. The focus groups organized in all communities included parent, teachers,
indigenous federations, and students. Interviews with local representatives were carried out as
well. During Project preparation the Government and IDA's team prepared an Indigenous People
Development Plan, based on the consultations with Honduran indigenous groups.




                                                   7

Incorporation of the Indigenous People Development Plan into the Project (IPDP). Project
design fully incorporated the IPDP agreed between the Ministry of Education and indigenous
federations. Furthermore, each component was designed to ensure that ethnic communities
benefited from Project interventions.

Lessons learned from other projects were taken into account. IDA's team looked for other
experiences in the areas of education access and quality, community participation, and
institutional strengthening. El Salvador's community education model (EDUCO) was carefully
reviewed during project preparation ­both by the Government and IDA's teams-- and lessons
were adapted to Honduras. Likewise, experiences with transferring resources directly to school
were examined (Brazil, Chile, El Salvador, and Uruguay) and incorporated into the Project.

The Project was in line with the CAS (19893-HO) and with the Poverty Reduction Strategy
(July 2000) for Honduras. The CAS identified poverty as its primary goal. The Project targeted
poverty reduction and social development through basic education opportunities, especially in the
most isolated and dispersed rural communities.

While most risks were adequately identified, conflicts with teachers' unions were
underestimated as well as political commitment to decentralization of the sector. IDA's
team correctly identified most of the risks to the Project, except for the opposition of teacher
unions to several aspects of institutional change, as well as their opposition to the student
assessments and evaluations. Additionally, many teachers resisted integrating new education
inputs into the learning process. Likewise, the team underestimated the required long-term
commitment to decentralize education responsibilities (accompanied by financing) to local levels.

Overly ambitious design of institutional strengthening interventions. While the institutional
assessment carried out during preparation provided a good picture of the institutional
strengthening needs required to improve the quality of education, the interventions proposed by
the team were ambitious. This is particularly true given IDA's previous experiences in Honduras.
For instance, Honduras lacked an information system for education data and the team expected
that such system could be developed and operational under the Project, which proved to not be
feasible.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Delays in declaring effectiveness.       The Project became effective four months after the
originally estimated effectiveness date.    The delay was mostly due to the Congressional
approval requirement for all IDA loans in Honduras. In addition to four other effectiveness
condition ­all met-- the credit included the hiring of independent auditors. This condition was
waved once all other conditions had been met so not to cause further effectiveness delays. The
firm Price Waterhouse Coopers was hired in the first semester of 2003.

Change in Administration. Project preparation took place between 1998 and 2001 under one
administration. However, in February 2002, shortly after the credit was declared effective, a
new administration took office.     In preparation for the transition, a joint IDA and Inter-
American Development Bank (IADB) team --also financing an education project at the time--
prepared a transition plan to guarantee information exchange about the Project. As such, during
the first quarter of 2002 there were several workshops with staff from the outgoing and
incoming administrations. This initiative was crucial in guaranteeing ownership of the Project


                                                 8

by the new administration. At the same time, the incoming administration requested some
changes in project activities to better support their education strategy, which were incorporated
into the Project.

Restructuring of the Ministry of Education (MoE). Immediately after its inauguration, the
new administration reorganized the MoE, creating three vice-ministries. This reorganization
caused a period of confusion and friction, particularly due to lack of definition of the roles and
responsibilities of each vice-ministry.

Delays in the definition of a decentralization law. The administration which took office in
2002, started to work on a decentralization program to empower local levels of government
(including communities and schools). It was the Government's intention to establish the parent
associations of traditional schools (ADELs) within the framework of the new law. Therefore,
ADELs ability to receive financial transfers for the PECs was delayed pending approval of the
law4. However, by 2004 the law had not been approved and the Government proceeded to
allow ADELs to receive funds.

High turn-over of parents in AECOs and ADELs. AECO and ADEL members are elected
every two years. This rotation was designed to increase the number of community members
trained in school management and also to give the opportunity for a variety of stakeholders to
be involved in the school. However, this rotation proved to be costly in terms of the training
required for AECO and ADEL members. This was particularly true in the case of AECO
members who had the additional responsibility of managing and paying teachers. Furthermore,
it was observed that the initial training given to AECO members was not sufficient for them to
carry out their responsibilities.

Conflict with teacher unions. Teacher unions led strikes through most of the Project's
implementation, cutting the number of school days by as much as half ­and hindering any
possibility of real gains in learning. Additionally, unions opposed to the national student
assessment system (SINECE) and the implementation on the national curriculum (CNB)
prepared with credit support. By 2006 teacher unions had negotiated a salary increase that
significantly limited the possibility of future Government-financed investments in the education
sector. Overall, the conflict with the unions overshadowed many of the attempted changes in
the education sector of Honduras.

Implementation PHRD. In 2004 The Government of Japan approved an implementation grant
(PRHD) in the amount of US$715,000 to support the Project objectives. The Grant was
designed to finance technical assistance to: (i) build the Ministry's capacity at the departmental
and district offices; (ii) expand and strengthen the role of community promoters; (iii) support
parent school councils to ensure they had the appropriate institutional capacity to carry their
functions; (iv) support capacity building and institutional strengthening; and (v) finance audits.
In June 2006 the PHRD was amended to replace some activities, as well as to cancel
US$337,100. This cancellation was done after an IDA mission reviewed the activities that had
already taken place, those that were still pending, and the estimated time to complete them. The
Ministry and IDA agreed that some activities were no longer necessary and that others could not
be implemented before the grant closed. Therefore, the grant was amended and partially



4The legal status of traditional schools is granted by the Secretaría de Gobernacíon while PROHECO schools' legal
status is granted by the Ministry of Education. Therefore, this delay only affected ADELs.




                                                           9

cancelled to reflect this agreement.             By Project completion, among other studies, the
implementation PHRD had financed: (i) manuals and guidelines in the use of preschool and
primary school materials; (ii) the development of a textbook distribution strategy for the
Ministry of Education, which enabled the quick and successful distribution of millions of
textbooks in 2007 and early 2008; (iii) workshops and training of community education
promoters; and (iv) a complete audit of PROHECO teacher pensions.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. Project design focused on developing the Ministry's capacity at central, departmental
and district levels to produce reliable education data, regular student assessments and, to a lesser
extent, monitor and evaluate specific education interventions. Data collection and processing
would be carried out in a decentralized manner, heavily relying on the department and district
levels for collection. The PAD foresaw that the credit would finance: (i) the design and
implementation of a learning assessment for 3rd and 6th graders in mathematics, language and
science, including dissemination of results; (ii) evaluation of innovative community-based
education programs; and (iii) design and implementation of an information system.

Implementation and Utilization.               Overall, while monitoring and evaluation was well
highlighted and incorporated into the Project's design, the actual implementation fell short of
expectations, earning the Project a moderately unsatisfactory rating in this category.

There were improvements in the information collection processes and practices since Project
effectiveness. Nonetheless, by Project completion the Ministry of Education still did not have an
information system which could provide timely and consistent data on the education sector.
Likewise, the there were two student assessments of 3rd and 6th grade students, on a sample basis,
between 2002 and 20045. Once credit funds for this purpose ran out, the evaluation was
discontinued. In 2007, with financing from USAID, another evaluation of a sample of 6th graders
was carried out.

Since 2006 the Ministry is producing national education data. Nonetheless, despite the credit's
financing of equipment, computers and personnel training to support the generation of education
data, by Project completion the Ministry of Education was still manually collecting education
data (enrollment, repetition, completion, attendance, etc) at the district level.     Districts are
responsible for transmitting data to the Departmental level, which consolidates the data
electronically and sends it to the Ministry of Education. The data produced is still not reliable, as
the ICR team experienced first-hand. The problem with reliability is believed to result from: (i)
data collection problems, particularly human error and inconsistencies in reporting; (ii) lack of
qualified personnel at the Ministry's Statistical Unit; (iii) outdated technology at both
departmental and national levels to process data; and (iv) internal conflicts between two units
within the Ministry --Unidad de Infotecnología and Unidad de Estadística Educativa-- about their
respective roles and responsibilities.

It should be also noted that Project interventions in the MoE area tended to focus at the national
level, rather than district and departmental levels where data is actually collected. As mentioned
in section 1.6 of this document, as the IADB and GTZ concentrated its efforts in improving



5Student assessments were carried out by the University Francisco Morazán (UMCE).




                                                        10

information systems at the departmental level, IDA interventions focused at the national level.
Notwithstanding, data collection and processing in Honduras depends on all three levels, as
foreseen in original project design. Heavy collaboration among IDA, IADB and GTZ would be
the least required to ensure the data collection and processing improved and that MoE ended up
with an adequate monitoring system. The ICR team found no evidence that this took place.
Another hypothesis for the lack of greater success in this area is that IDA's team gave greater
importance to the development of the student assessment system, both in terms of resources as
well as supervision efforts.           Thus, the MoE was under less pressure to improve its data
collection/monitoring system.

As a result of the difficulty in acquiring reliable data within the Ministry, certain technical units
in charge of specific programs financed under the Project started gathering their own yearly
information and using it for monitoring and decision making. This is true in both the PROHECO
unit and the unit in charge of the intercultural bilingual education program (Programa Nacional
de Educación de las Étnias Autóctonas y Afroantillanas de Honduras - PRONEEAAH).

The Project did not anticipate rigorous impact evaluations ­ which were much less common at the
time this Project was prepared--but specific studies about programs supported by it. There was a
study on PROHECO, and an in-depth project evaluation at mid-term implementation. It does not
seem like the results of these or other studies have been widely disseminated in the Ministry or
the lessons incorporated into their programs.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Rating: Satisfactory

Indigenous Safeguard. Highly Satisfactory. Representatives and community members of the
nine indigenous and Afro-Honduran groups of Honduras were consulted during project
identification and preparation. An Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) was prepared
before project approval and agreed with the Government. According to the IPDP, the Project
would support the Intercultural Bilingual Program (EIB) of the Ministry of Education, through
financing specific activities agreed during preparation. By Project completion, the outputs for
those activities had all been reached and/or surpassed, earning the Project a highly satisfactory
rating under the safeguard category.

Among the main achievements, it is worth noting the following:

    · Reorganization, strengthening, and institutionalization of the unit in charge of
         intercultural bilingual education (EIB), called PRONEEAAH-EIB6. Departmental EIB
         units were also established and staff trained.                That PRONEEAAH unit remains
         operational after Project completion, though it seems that some staff are still financed by
         donors.
    · A national EIB curriculum for preschool through grade 6 designed based on the national
         curriculum (CNB).            The CNB was adapted to the linguistic and socio-cultural
         characteristics of the different ethnic groups. Teacher guides were also elaborated and
         distributed.



6 PRONEEAAHH was created in 1994. It worked during 1994-1996, and it languished during 1996-2000. It was
reinvigorated with the Project's support. PRONEEAAHH had not worked properly due to lack of adequate funding, an
excessive centralized functioning and a poor selection of its staff.




                                                           11

     · Textbooks and educational materials designed, validated, printed, and distributed to all
         EIB schools.
     · 780 teachers trained for two years to get a teaching degree with EIB orientation. Another
         172 pre-school volunteers trained in EIB teaching.
     · 268 PROHECO-EIB schools and 60 PROHECO-EIB preschools created under the
         Project. By Project completion, these schools were fully funded by the Government.
     · Approximately 1,000 ADELs created in indigenous communities served by traditional
         schools. Their members received training and funds to develop and implement school
         development projects (PECs).
     · One-time collection of information on EIB student population, which served as input to
         print and distribute bilingual textbooks.

Fiduciary. Moderately Satisfactory. Overall, the implementation unit (UEP) did an adequate
job in the fiduciary areas, earning a moderately satisfactory rating due to punctual issues that
arose during implementation. Project audits were clean with little observations which were
addressed by the UEP in a timely manner.                   In terms of financial management, the key
shortcomings during implementation were: (i) at the UEP level there were problems in reporting
and reconciling credit expenditures for over 12 months; and (ii) inadequate training in financial
management for AECO and ADEL members, including insufficient supervision of PEC funds.
This later led to incorrect procedures on the part of the ADELs and AECOs in two areas: (i)
inadequate/incorrect book-keeping of the resources transferred to them for the school
improvement projects (PECs), including a pending reconciliation of about US$200,000 by Project
completion; and (ii) poor management by AECOs of the PROHECO teachers' retirement
contributions. It should be noted, however, that the earlier problem was very small in relation to
the total amount of transfers7, and the later problem was exacerbated by the Ministry's failure to
give timely information to the AECOs on where to deposit these funds once INPREMA ­the
teachers' retirement association--decided to no longer accept those deposits. This problem was
detected during a supervision mission of a school. As a result, IDA's management required a full
audit of PROHECO funds, and held back the appraisal of the subsequent credit.

On the procurement side, in general the processes were followed and completed in a satisfactory
and timely manner. This is particularly true in the last year of implementation when the UEP
successfully carried out a large ICB to purchase science textbooks. One noteworthy exception
was a 2003 bidding process for printing textbooks, guides and materials that had problems with
the technical specifications and the process had to be cancelled. There was, however, a lack of
integration between of the procurement module into the financial management information
system, which created limitations for a better management of the project resources.




7AECOs and ADELs Schools received and managed about US$7 million equivalent in direct transfers financing 6,988
school development projects (PECs). Therefore, the pending reconciliation represents a tiny fraction of the total. At
the same time, about one-third of all municipalities in Honduras failed to liquidate their transfers from the national
government, as required by law.




                                                        12

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Most of the Project achievements ­the establishment of over 1,000 PROHECO schools, hiring of
over 1,500 teachers and 900 preschool volunteers, the PRONEAAH and PROHECO's offices --
have already been incorporated into the MoE's structure and budget8, ensuring their sustainability.
By 2006 the PROHECO program was fully incorporated into the Ministry. The 2008 annual
operational program (POA) of the Ministry of Education included all the funds for PROHECO
schools. Furthermore, Honduras's Congressional committee on education is currently working
on a bill to make PROHECO an official government policy for education delivery in rural areas,
ensuring their long-term financing, granting legal status to AECOs, and outlining rights for their
teachers, including a pension system. The approval of this initiative as a law would be an
important step to ensure long-term sustainability of PROHECOs, particularly as unions have
strongly opposed them.9 On the other hand, community associations serving traditional schools
(ADELs) had their role limited to managing funds transferred for PECs. As the MoE stopped
those transfers after Project completion, the sustainability of ADELs is questionable.

The EFA-FTI pooled fund will continue supporting efforts to improve the quality of education,
mostly with the purchase and distribution of education inputs (particularly textbooks), technical
assistance, and training for SE staff and teachers. The new IDA credit (US$15.37 equivalent)
approved by the Board on January 24 2008 and expected to be effective on June 15, 2008 will
focus on consolidating gains in the area of institutional strengthening (including monitoring and
evaluation), and the application of the new curriculum at the school level. The EFA-FTI unit in
the Ministry of Education will be responsible for continuing the implementation of its own
activities as well as be in charge of the new IDA credit. That office relies mostly on the
Ministry's own staff, with the support of some specialized consultants in fiduciary areas.

Long-term sustainability of purchase and distribution of learning inputs, including textbooks
remains a serious concern. The MoE has relied on donors, IADB and IDA to finance textbooks,
without ever developing a long-term strategy to finance those. In the context of fiscal challenges,
including rising public wages in the education sector, education sector resources are expected to
remain scarce. Under the Project, with financing of an implementation PHRD, a consultancy was
carried out to develop a proposal of a textbook policy for public schools, including a maintenance
and reposition plan. However, MoE authorities have not shown an inclination to adopting a
textbook policy, nor undertaking the financial responsibility to replace textbooks.

The institutional strengthening achieved under the Project is marginal, particularly compared to
the sector's actual needs. Therefore the follow-up credit will focus most of its resources in this
area.




8It should be noted, however, that the Ministry of Education still relies on consultants financed by donors to
supplement their staff.

9The education committee is expecting to submit this initiative as a law in September 2008.




                                                         13

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The relevance of the Project's development objective was high at the time of preparation and
remains high today, as listed in the CAS of November 2006 and the 2008 CAS Update (draft).
The Project strove to expand access to preschool and basic education in remote rural areas as well
as improve their quality. This was consistent with the Government's priorities at the time of
approval, and the priorities of the 2002 incoming administration. As such, the follow-up credit
approved (IDA-43810) focuses on strengthening the education system with the objective of
improving the quality of education for Honduran students, as well as sector governance.
Furthermore, the Project remains consistent with EFA-FTI goals.

Project design was relevant, identifying activities that responded to the needs of Honduras's
education sector and considering relevant experience in previous projects in Honduras and abroad.
Furthermore, project initiatives laid the foundation for achieving EFA-FTI goals. The first
component, Local Application of National Curriculum, was designed to answer to the need of
having a relevant curriculum to the innumerous multigrade and bilingual schools, training
teachers in the new curriculum, and regularly assessing student progress. This new curriculum is
expected to serve as the basis for additional efforts to improve the quality and relevance of
education in Honduras.

The second component, Community-based Provision of Preschool and Basic Education Services,
addressed the supply-side problems of education provision in rural and remote areas of Honduras
by promoting the expansion of an existing community education model, PROHECO. Likewise,
in order to promote early entry into primary school and student preparedness, this component also
supported a preschool community model. Reaching universal primary education, still an unmet
goal for Honduras will only be possible with the existence of PROHECO or similar models. The
one area that the preparation team did not fully evaluate was the implication of having an
education system with two distinct modalities of education management (traditional vs.
PROHECO) and the difficulties that that would pose for education management. This was
further complicated as the education system was going through some changes. Fortunately, the
PROHECO model has generated support among legislators, who are pushing for its formal
adoption.

The third component, School-based Management of Rural Communities, attempted to improve
school efficiency and teacher accountability by increasing parental involvement in their
management. While the design and interventions of this component correctly responded to the
needs of rural schools, and attempted to minimize the difference between PROHECO and
traditional schools, the interventions proved insufficient to increase the accountability of
traditional teachers. On the other hand, the direct transfer of resources to schools (PECs) proved
to be a very successful strategy to quickly respond to school needs ­including materials and
minor infrastructure improvements.

The last component, Strengthening of Institutional Support for Community Participation and
School-based Management Programs, also correctly aimed to address the weak institutional
capacity of the Ministry. However, in hindsight, the activities proposed for financing proved to
be extremely ambitious given the frail institutional framework of the education sector, the high
politization of the sector, and the powerful role of teacher unions. Additionally, the premise for
these interventions to work was the decentralization of the system, which never fully occurred.



                                                14

As such, the gains in this component were far inferior to what was expected during project design
and efforts will continue to be required in this area.

Project implementation responded to the evolving needs of the sector in a timely and flexible
way. This was facilitated by the fact that there was a consensus on the Project's objectives and
the ensuing changes were basically related to arising opportunities and the Government selecting
new approaches. There was never a need to amend the Project, given its relevant objective and
flexible design. Examples of such changes occurred when the 2002 administration took over and
when EFA-FTI was introduced. The 2002 administration requested IDA's support to change the
scope of some activities, as well as to support the reorganization of the Ministry of Education.
Second, the Project was asked to finance the development of the new curriculum and its
adaptations, not originally planned. Then, with the launching of EFA-FTI, IDA's team quickly
agreed to reallocate funds to support some activities, all of which were consistent with Project
objectives. Finally, with the appreciation of the SDR in relation to the US$, Honduras had
additional resources available under the Project, which were quickly allocated to expand the
scope of some activities and also to finance other activities not originally foreseen in the Project.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

This Project presents challenges in terms of evaluation. First, as previously mentioned, the
quality of education data in Honduras is poor. The IDA team worked at length with the MoE
during the last 12 months to try to "clean up" the data as much as possible and ensure consistency.
Notwithstanding, during the preparation of this document, the team still found discrepancies with
the data presented. Second, two of the seven outcome indicators selected to measure project
success are subjective--availability and relevance of learning materials, and changes in
perceptions of key school-based actions. Third, most indicators did not have a baseline at the
time of Project approval ­though a baseline was collected in the first year of implementation--
and 2007 data was not available at the time of this ICR. Finally, the issue of attribution or even
contribution is pertinent when reviewing some outcome indicators, particularly as in 2004 EFA-
FTI donors started financing many activities with objectives similar to the Project. This will be
further discussed in the context of individual outcome indicators.

Increase enrollment rates in preschool and primary education. The outcome indicator for
this goal was to increase enrollment rates in rural preschools by 5 percentage points and in lower
basic education by 8 percentage points. Between 2002 and 2006, preschool net enrollment rates
in rural areas increased from 18.2 percent to 24.7 percent. At the primary level (grades 1 to 6),
net enrollment in rural areas increased from 82.5 percent to 93.7 percent during the same period.
Given that the growth in enrollment rates in rural areas is directly related to the expansion of
PROHECO schools, the Project contributed to the achievement in this target. In terms of
preschool enrollment, it is worth noticing that preschool enrollment rates increased nationally
during the same period (from 24 percent to 28.3 percent), though at a slower pace. Therefore,
there were likely other factors besides project interventions contributing to this increase.

Improved internal efficiency in rural schools. It was measured by: (i) increased early entry
and promotion, and (ii) reduced repetition and drop out rates. The outcome indicators for this
objective have mixed results. In terms of increasing early entry into rural schools, the percentage
of 6 year-olds entering 1st grade increased from 50 to 59 percent between 2002 and 2006. In
urban areas that increase was more significant --46 to 67 percent in the same period. Thus, in
absolute terms this indicator was achieved.         Nonetheless, given that early entry increased
nationwide ­and at a much higher rate in urban areas-- it is difficult to determine the Project's
contribution to this growth.


                                                  15

Rural repetition rates improved slightly between 2002 and 2006, from 9.8 percent to 8.9 percent
and nationally from 8.6 percent to 7.3 percent. It should be noted, however, that repetition rates
have had slight up and down oscillations for the implementation years when data is available,
without a consistent pattern. Overall, there is no clear trend in repetition rates to say this goal was
achieved.

Drop out rates in rural areas remained at 2.8 percent throughout implementation10. While the
Project's outcome indicator was to reduce this percentage, one should recognize that with the
entrance of 32,250 new primary level rural students into the system, keeping this number constant
is an achievement in itself. On the other hand, rural completion rates increased from 68 to 73
percent between 2002 and 200611. In addition to IDA-financed interventions, EFA-FTI donors
have also focused on decreasing drop-out rates and improving completion rates ­with
complementary actions to the Project. Therefore, it is not possible to determine the extent that the
above results are attributable to the Project.

Improved quality. The outcome indicator listed in the PAD to measure education quality
improvement was 3rd and 6th grade student performance in standardized Mathematics and Spanish
tests. During project implementation, it was expected that the Ministry of Education would apply
such evaluations in 2002 (baseline), 2004, and 2006. The Ministry carried out the assessments in
2002 and 2004. In November 2007 a sample-based evaluation of learning outcomes was carried
out for 6th grade students. The assessment was partially based on the new curriculum, raising
issues of comparison with previous assessments.

The table below shows student performance in the 2002, 2004, and 2007 assessments. The 2007
results are preliminary. While there is a slight improvement in 2007, in general students failed to
master the basic learning concepts, with all grades tested performing below 50 percent in
Mathematics, Language and Natural Sciences.                       Whereas disappointing, this result is not
surprising given the number of days schools were closed due to teacher strikes. During most of
Project implementation, the actual number of classes taught in traditional schools was between
two-thirds and half of the required 200 school days.

                             Mathematics                                                  Spanish
           Nat.3rd      Rural 3rd      Nat. 6th    Rural 6th       Nat. 3rd     Rural 3rd        Nat. 6th      Rural 6th
2002         43.2          41.6          38.9         37.5            38.4          36.1            43.5           40.7
2004         43.5          41.6          39.2         36.5            39.2          41.6            44.0           40.6
200712        n.a.          n.a.         38.8         38.4            n.a.           n.a.           45.0           43.8
         Source: Data provided by UMCE at University Francisco Morazán.




10 Rural drop-out rates experienced marginal improvements in some of the implementation years (2.3 percent in 2003
and 2.5 percent in 2003).

11Rural completion rates increase to 76 percent in 2004 then dropped to 65 percent in 2005, again increasing in 2006.
A similar pattern is found in urban schools. This pattern is difficult to explain and raises questions on the reliability of
the data.

12These are preliminary results of the evaluation carried out in November 2007 of a sample of 6th grade students from
public schools. These results are not yet official.




                                                          16

Student assessment results were supposed to measure students' improvements in learning once
the new national curriculum (CNB) was in place.                      However, as previously explained, the
elaboration of the CNB suffered delays and the new CNB reached schools shortly before Project
completion13. Thus, the student assessment did not measure student learning of the CNB.

Non-cognitive development. Another outcome indicator of the Project was improved results of
student social achievements and self-esteem evaluations. This was to be measured through
standardized tests for self-esteem, leadership, civic and citizenship training, in parallel to the
aforementioned achievement tests. In 2002 and 2004 UMCE carried out a survey for a cohort of
students in 3rd and 6th grades which looked into the factors influencing learning achievements
(Factores Asociados al Rendimiento Académico 2002-2004). The main results were consistent
with research in other countries: (i) family context (i.e., books available in the household, level
of education of the mother, etc.) highly influences learning achievements, particularly language
skills; (ii) student academic history is highly correlated to future achievements (i.e., the best
students in 2002 were still the best in 2004); (iii) school attendance and school environment
influence learning outcomes; and (iv) need to work was one of the main reasons offered for
dropping out of school but not the only one. Problems with teachers and students or unhappiness
with the school was mentioned as well. This assessment was discontinued after 2004, offering no
comparison.

Availability and relevance of learning materials for rural schools. This outcome indicator
was to be measured by the: (i) number of work guides per student; (ii) number of textbooks in
the library per student; (iii) number of notebooks per student; (iv) availability, situation and use of
learning materials in science, Spanish and Mathematics; and (v) relevance of the curricular
content and application to the community context. By Project completion, all rural and urban
schools in Honduras had received copies of the national curriculum and the studies program
(Diseño del Currículo Nacional Básico ­ DCNB) and the National Basic Curriculum (CNB), and
the textbooks for Mathematics, Language, and teacher guides. The Natural and Social Sciences
textbooks and teacher guides were under distribution in the first quarter of 2008. Textbooks,
teacher guides, and some reading books were produced in the seven ethnic languages of
indigenous and Afro-Hondurans and distributed throughout the country. Preschools received the
new curriculum and learning materials as well. The credit directly financed all these materials,
including making available for the first time in Honduras bilingual textbooks and social and
natural science ones. All the targets were substantially surpassed. It should be noted, however,
that most of the textbooks reached the school during the last year of project implementation, some
after Project completion, therefore not influencing the quality of learning during its
implementation.

Improvement in rural teacher performance and productivity. This was measured by the
number of days worked per month and the length of the work day. The official school calendar in
Honduras is 200 days of 4 hours per day.                    Due to severe teacher strikes during project
implementation, traditional schools closed as many as half of those days, never complying with



13All primary schools across the country received copies of the basic national curriculum (DCNB). All primary level
teachers received training (starting in 2004) of the new curriculum and on the use of textbooks. Training of the new
curriculum was interrupted and affected by the conflict with the teachers' unions. Training was initially carried out in
cascade, with lower than expected success in reaching teachers. Training practices were modified in June 2007.




                                                          17

the official calendar. On the other hand, PROHECO schools were mostly exempt from the strikes,
possibly because of their remoteness as well as the fact that teachers pay is linked to attendance14.
A baseline was not collected for PROHECO school teacher attendance; therefore a comparison
with traditional schools closings is used as a proxy to demonstrate the achievement of this target.
While traditional school teachers worked an estimated 170 school days in 2007 (compared to
about 110 in 2002 and 120 in 2006), PROHECO schools remained open approximately 180 days
of the school year. This differential demonstrates that the community education model was
successful in ensuring attendance.

The final outcome indicator for the Project was changes in perceptions, attitude and behavior
of key school-based actors (principals, teachers, students, parents, and the community). This
was to be measured through a survey of parents in AECOs and ADELs. The survey was not
carried out as planned and therefore this indicator could not be measured as part of the ICR.
However, in November 2007, as part of preparing a final progress report on the Project, the
Ministry of Education surveyed a non-representative sample of schools to try to capture
information on this indicator. The results are detailed in section 3.6 below. Overall, perceptions
of PROHECO schools were positive. Parents attribute to them the increased access to education;
they also stated that school infrastructure has improved and parents have contributed to create
community involvement in the schools supporting teachers and principals and fostering greater
accountability.

3.3 Efficiency

An economic analysis was not carried out for this ICR. Nonetheless, the team reviewed the
economic analysis prepared for the follow-up operation in late 2007--Honduras Education
Quality, Governance and Institutional Strengthening Project (IDA-43810) -- and included the
relevant information in this section of the ICR.

The premises of the economic analysis is that greater education attainment, measured by years of
schooling, leads to higher wages and, therefore, increased standard of living. Furthermore, it
cites that most gains in schooling have resulted from increased primary school enrollment. In
particular, the analysis states that one additional year of schooling in rural areas, even without
quality improvements, could lead to a 12.2 percent increase in wages. Furthermore, if the quality
of rural schools were raised to the level of urban ones, wages would also increase.

In terms of the interventions financed under this credit, the economic analysis offers the
following pertinent information:

Increase in preschool enrollment. During Project implementation, approximately 7,000 new
students were added to preschools ­early entry increased by 9 percent. The economic analysis of
the follow-up credit (IDA-43810) argues that preschools increase preparedness of children for
first grade where high repetition rates have historically been a problem, and leads to higher
attainment. "In 2004, only 60 percent of 7 year-olds and 35 percent of 6 year-olds were in
primary school...by drawing students into the school system at an earlier age, a year of preschool
will induce them to enroll in first grade by age 6."15 Since a large share of students leave school


14PROHECO teacher salaries are below those of traditional teachers and they are not eligible for the same labor
benefits. This gap has increased during the last five years. Still, strikes have not affected PROHECO schools.

15Project Appraisal Document (IDA-43810), page 86.



                                                           18

when they reach the legal working age, enrolling earlier means additional years of schooling.
Greater school attainment leads to higher average earnings. Specifically, one additional year of
schooling for Honduran males would amount to somewhere between US$2,100 and US$2,400
(2004) during a lifetime.      A quick back-of-the-envelope calculation based on the above
information shows that by keeping these 7,000 children in school for one additional year could
lead to about US$15 million in increased earnings over their lifetime.

Increase in primary school enrollment. Approximately 32,000 new students were added to
primary schools established under the Project ­another 8,000 students to pre-primary schools--
and completion rates increased by 6 percent. According to the hypothesis and conclusions of the
aforementioned economic analysis, one could assume that these additional students will also
benefit from greater earning potential by attending school.

PROHECO and Governance. While traditional schools were negatively impacted with teacher
strikes, PROHECO schools were generally unaffected by them. In 2002 traditional schools held
about 110 school days (compared to the 200 official days), a trend that remained somewhat
consistent until the end of 2006. PROHECO schools, on the other hand, had an average of 180
school days per year throughout project implementation. So, relative to traditional schools the
students were getting more education per dollar spent on salaries.

In addition to the speculated economic benefits of the project, its social impact is also expected to
be positive. The Project supported the provision of schooling to population groups without
previous access, as well as supporting an increase in the years of schooling. By improving
enrollments in rural areas, including indigenous ones, the Project has contributed to increasing
equity in education opportunities at the preschool and primary levels, decreasing the gap between
rural and urban school-aged children. Likewise, the community model empowered communities,
leading to greater accountability in PROHECO schools.

The financial burden of Project cost over the country finances was manageable.                  The
Government's counterpart funds added to US$5.7 million equivalent (compared to US$6.3
million equivalent envisioned at appraisal). The disbursement of counterpart funds was spread
over 5.5 years. The Project generated recurrent costs for country's budget due to the salaries of
new PROHECO teachers, and preschool and EIB volunteers for the new created schools. The
country's education budget gradually absorbed the cost of new teacher and volunteer positions
and by 2007 the full cost had been incorporated into the MoE's budget.

Project/Component Cost

Component 1: Local Application of the National Curriculum was estimated to cost US$9.71
million equivalent. By Project completion it had cost 126 percent of the appraisal estimate. This
differential is consistent with the increase in scope of the component activities, including the
additional financing the Project provided for the development of the national curriculum, the
production and distribution of materials for national coverage, and the number of teachers trained.

Component 2: School-based Management for Rural Communities, on the other hand, ended
up costing about 85 percent of the estimated US$14.5 million equivalent estimated at appraisal
time. This information is not consistent with the fact that this component significantly surpassed
its output indicators, but it results from how the accounting for the Project expenses was
organized by the implementation unit (UEP). The UEP included many administrative costs
related to this component under component IV.



                                                 19

Component 3 School-based Management for Rural Communities closed at 97 percent of the
original estimated cost of US$9.9 million equivalent. This component financed the training of
ADEL members and the implementation of school development projects (PECs) in PROHECO
and traditional schools. The costs are consistent with the output indicators. Notwithstanding,
similarly to the previous component, this final cost is underestimated as some of the
administrative expenses behind these interventions were accounted under component IV.

Component 4 Strengthening of Institutional Support for Community Participation and
School-based Management Programs cost 67 percent more than the original estimate of
US$11.2 million equivalent. This is due to the way the UEP accounted for the expenditures
related to the implementation of the previous three components (i.e., PROHECO and EIB units,
and ADEL and PEC management units). Of the US$18.8 million equivalent spent under this
component, only US$3.2 million went toward financing the project's implementation unit (6% of
the total final cost).

The costs of the EIB unit, PROHECO unit, management units for ADELs and PECs and EFA
together add up to US$4.5 million equivalent. These are expenses that should have been included
under the other three components. Likewise, component IV includes US$3 million equivalent in
expenses related to the implementation of EFA, including training, technical assistance,
furnishing and equipment for its office, short and long-term consultants, cars, etc. Together these
costs add to US$7.5 million equivalent, accounting for most of the cost over-run under
component IV.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Project's overall outcome rating is moderately satisfactory as it is responsible for important
achievements, including meeting many of its expected outcomes. Project interventions have laid
the foundations for improving the education sector in Honduras. At the same time, not all
activities were consolidated by Project completion, leaving a sector ripe to be propelled forward
but with fragile accomplishments that will need further political and financial commitment to
make them sustainable. This is particularly true of the institutional strengthening interventions,
where outcomes and outputs fell short of expectations.

The relevance of the Project's development objective was high at the time of preparation
and remains high today. Project activities responded to the needs of Honduras's education
sector and were consistent with the CAS. The Project strove to expand access to preschool and
basic education in remote rural areas as well as improve education quality. Project activities
addressed the shortage of preschool and primary schools in rural areas, and the lack of a relevant
curriculum to the innumerous multigrade and bilingual schools. The Project also sought to
improve school efficiency and teacher accountability, and attempted to address the weak
institutional capacity of the Ministry.          Overall, many of the Project's interventions and
accomplishments laid the foundation for achieving EFA-FTI goals.

The Project partially achieved its development objective and made a significant
contribution to rural school-aged children in Honduras16. As a result of its interventions,




16When measuring Project achievements, two important issues deserve attention. First, is the reliability of Honduras
education data. Second, many of the outcome indicators listed in the PAD (i.e. repetition, drop out, completion rates,



                                                      20

preschool and lower primary education access have been expanded in remote rural areas,
including areas serving indigenous populations. Repetition, completion, and drop out rates, and
student performance remained almost constant, despite the increase in enrollment. This is an
achievement in itself given the almost 40,000 new preschool and primary school students entering
the education system in the last four years.

The credit also financed the completion of a new national curriculum for preschool and basic
education, the purchase and distribution of millions of textbooks for the entire preschool and
primary education systems, and the development, printing and distribution of bilingual education
books to all bilingual indigenous schools. For the first time ever, Honduran primary level
students have natural and social science textbooks available to them, and bilingual populations
have textbooks in their native languages.

Teacher productivity in traditional schools, measured by the actual number of days worked,
increased from about 110 in 2002 to 170 days in 2007. However, this improvement is the result
of a teacher salary raise agreement reached between the Government and teacher unions in 2006,
and cannot be attributed to the Project. On the other hand, PROHECO school teachers attended
an average of 180 days of the 200 day calendar during all the implementation period. The Project,
through the PROHECO modality, mobilized parents, involved them in school management, and
contributed to greater teacher accountability.

The Project contributed to close the urban-rural gap in education and will likely lead to future
higher average earnings for rural students. By raising preschool and primary school enrollment in
rural areas, students will likely reach higher education attainment. Greater school attainment
leads to higher average earnings. By improving enrollments in rural areas, including indigenous
ones, the Project has also contributed to increasing equity in education opportunities at those
levels, decreasing the gap between rural and urban school-aged children. Finally, as PROHECO
schools had a higher average of open school days per year throughout project implementation,
relative to traditional schools the students were getting more education per dollar spent on salaries.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project did not include any specific impact measurement on poverty or gender.
Notwithstanding, the Project targeted the poorest and most remote groups in Honduras,
particularly by making pre- and primary schools accessible to them.                                    During project
implementation, about 40,000 new students in pre-school through 6th grade were added to the
system, increasing rural preschool net enrollment rate by about 6 percentage points and primary
gross17 enrollment by almost 25 percentage points. Additionally, about 1,600 new teachers ­
many from those communities--were hired and trained to serve in the new schools.                                      The
community education model empowered community members by making them responsible for
their school administration, including hiring and firing of teachers. Furthermore, beneficiaries



teacher attendance, student assessment results) are affected by various inter-linked factors that are outside of the control
of the Project which makes attribution difficult.




17Net enrollment rate data not available.




                                                           21

included indigenous and Afro-descends, many of whom without previous access to education
and/or appropriate bilingual materials.

At the same time, some of the Project interventions financed a larger group of the population.
For instance, the distribution of textbooks ended up covering all government schools. Teacher
training also covered a larger group of teachers than those allocated to rural areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

As most education Projects prepared in early 2000, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) did
not include specific outcome indicators to measure its institutional impact. Therefore, the ICR
team based the following observations on Project supervision documentation and a review of the
Project's component that focused on institutional strengthening.

On the positive side, the Project contributed to strengthening the fiduciary functions within the
Ministry of Education. Once Honduras joined EFA-FTI, IDA's team agreed to provide on-
demand technical assistance on the fiduciary aspects of managing the pooled funds. IDA staff
provided extensive procurement and financial management training to the staff of the Ministry's
EFA-FTI technical unit, while donors worked more closely with the departmental and district
levels.

On the technical area, the Project also contributed to strengthening some of the Ministry's units.
The units working on curriculum and pedagogy were strengthened through training. The unit
responsible for bilingual and multicultural education (PRONNEAHH) was mainstreamed into the
MoE, with strong technical staff who worked closely with consultants to produce bilingual
textbooks in the seven indigenous languages. This unit is now working toward producing a
bilingual education policy for the Ministry of Education. Likewise, the technical unit in charge of
PROHECO was also completely mainstreamed into the Ministry of Education. The Project, with
support from an implementation Japanese grant (PHRD), also financed the design of a textbook
distribution system, successfully using it to distribute over three million textbooks and teacher
guides in less than two months ­ after the previous process took over two years.

At the same time, the Project did not achieve many of the expected outputs of in the area of
institutional strengthening, leading the Association's team to rate Component IV ­which focus on
this area-- as unsatisfactory.      By Project completion there were no integrated institutional
databases to monitor the community-based education program (PROHECO), the bilingual
education program (EIB), the community preschool program (CCPREB), and the school grants
(PECs). Most of the monitoring is still being done by isolated groups, sometimes manually. As a
result, there is no unified information system to guide decision-making at the highest levels.
Likewise, accounting and financial management systems, even at the Project level, were deficient
and did not link expenditures to outputs. More importantly, the decentralization to departments
and school districts was not completed. About one-third of the expected district and municipal
offices were refurbished and district directors given training but little autonomy was granted to
them. The updating of information systems and institutional capacity building is a core focus of
the new education project in Honduras.

Overall, it is fair to say that the Project failed to promote visible institutional development during
its implementation years. At the same time, it is reasonable to recognize that some isolated
institutional gains were achieved, such as those highlighted above, which will serve as the
foundation for future progress.



                                                    22

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

As part of preparing its completion report, the Ministry of Education carried out a beneficiary
survey on a sample of fifteen rural schools in the Departments of Francisco Morazán, Atlántida,
El Paraíso and Copán. While the survey is not statistically representative, it provides a glimpse of
beneficiary perceptions of Project interventions. For that reason, the results are listed below18.

     · Teachers, parents, and students reported improvements in the school infrastructure and/or
          availability of materials and resources for learning activities.
     · Teachers and principals perceived greater involvement of parents and of communities in
          the school, contributing to physical improvements and better management of human and
          physical resources (i.e. teachers' attendance, merienda escolar supplemented by the
          mothers).
     · Teachers and parents mentioned they perceived improvements in self-esteem by students
          in rural areas (PROHECO).                  Self-esteem was measured according to students'
          participation in school functions and students' aspirations. This trend was emphasized in
          the case of the indigenous populations, with the teaching of the maternal tongue in the
          schools.
     · Teachers perceived more dedication on the part of 6th grade students, as well as greater
          desire to continue their education.
     · Parents perceived that enrollment opportunities had improved as well as teacher
          attendance.
     · Parent associations (AECOs and ADELS) do not feel that they are formally kept
          informed about the evolution of the quality of teaching and learning.
     · PROHECO parents showed appreciation and respect for their schools. Parents felt that
          PROHECO schools have overcome the initial stigma of lower quality of education.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

The assessment of risk to development outcome is rated as high. The Honduras' education sector
faces several challenges, many of which can directly or indirectly interfere with the development
outcomes of this Project.

First and foremost, as mentioned earlier, many of the gains achieved under the Project are
"fragile" and require continued political and financial commitment to ensure long term
sustainability. In a context of an increasing wage bill which not only threatens Honduras' fiscal
sustainability but severely limits the future capacity to invest in the education sector, the
Government will remain dependent on external financing to sustain education improvements. In
the short and medium terms that should not be a problem as many EFA-FTI donors remain
committed to financing EFA activities, all consistent and supportive of project interventions, until
2015. However, in the next eight years the Government needs to find efficiency gains both



18 It is important to note that not all achievements and shortcomings mentioned by beneficiaries are directly related to
this Project, as communities do not distinguish the source of financing for the interventions.




                                                           23

within the education sector and outside of it, to be able to continue investing in education, as well
as absorbing recurrent costs such as textbooks and materials that have been traditionally financed
by donors.

Additionally, the education sector in Honduras remains highly politicized, and unions have
exerted their influence in ways that have been detrimental to improving the quality of education.
For instance, teacher strikes have substantially reduced the number of school days for the last five
years and this pattern only changed last year when the Government agreed to an increase in
teacher wages, which threatens sector sustainability. Reposition of missing days was never
negotiated by the Government for fear that teachers would prolong the strike.

Project interventions are also subject to political changes. Luckily, none of the key interventions
financed under the Project (PROHECO, CNB, bilingual schools, textbooks) have been associated
with any one particular administration, therefore standing a good chance of survival.            For
instance, the science textbooks that were purchased and distributed did not include the names of
the Minister and his team on the inside covers, as is typical in many countries, so an incoming
team would not feel tempted to replace them ­as has happened in the past. At the same time,
there is work underway in Congress to make PROHECO and their teachers an official
Government policy, to ensure its long-term financing and support.

Institutionally, the low administrative and management capacity of Ministry of Education and the
absence of strategic planning and accountability, also pose a risk to the sector and to the gains
achieved by Project.

In terms of specific Project outcomes, the ICR team believes the risk to enrollment is moderate,
particularly as the PROHECO law is underway. However, translating enrollment gains into
improvements in the quality of learning is a high risk. To achieve improvements in quality,
Honduras will require focusing efforts on implementing the CNB and in training its teachers to
use it correctly ­this is particularly difficult as the "quality at entry" of teachers is already
deficient. Adequate learning materials and schools offering minimum infrastructure standards are
also important components. Currently, the education budget does not support these recurrent
expenses without external assistance from donors and multilaterals.

In terms of decentralization and greater school management, it is unlikely that most ADELs will
"survive" without being assigned a formal responsibility and/or resources to manage. Between
2006 and 2007, when PECs were discontinued, many ADELs became inactive. At the same time,
the MoE does not have resources to continue financing PECs as in 2006 it opted to eliminate
enrollment fees and allocate funds previously earmarked for PECS to schools to make up for their
loss of enrollment fees.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

IDA's team worked closely with the Borrower during the preparation phase, jointly identifying
key sector issues, defining a strategy to best address them, and designing interventions. IDA
financed technical assistance to help the Government carry out an indigenous plan, and



                                                 24

appropriate consultations with the nine ethnic groups. The preparation team benefited from a
diverse group of professionals, all with practical experience in similar type interventions.
Furthermore, the team reviewed lessons from other projects and/or other countries and applied
them to this Project. As a result, the Project's goals and interventions appropriately responded to
the needs of the sector. IDA's performance at entry is considered satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

IDA's supervision is also rated as satisfactory. During early implementation, the team carried out
frequent missions to ensure that implementation could start as soon as the Project became
effective. The team worked with the outgoing and incoming administrations to ensure a smooth
transition in the sector. Project management on IDA's part was flexible to respond to the
demands made by the incoming team. This ensured that the Project was embraced by the new
administration. Furthermore, a local operations officer was hired in the country office to support
the Human Development (HD) portfolio, enabling faster response to Government needs and
greater support to the Ministry of Education's implementation team.

During Project supervision there were three different team leaders. The transitions in task team
leaders seemed to be smooth and not have caused any delays in project implementation. Team
leaders were pro-active in responding to arising issues, and in bringing necessary technical
expertise as part of supervision missions. IDA's team frequently carried out field visits, visiting
schools and meeting with stakeholders. Aide memoires show that some of the Project's key
deficiencies were identified during such field visits and then addressed at the national level.
During the last 18 months of implementation, IDA's team also provided strong support in the
process of purchasing and distributing textbooks, making procurement and textbook experts
available to help the Government.

IDA's team closely supervised compliance of OP 4.10. Progress under the indigenous people
policy was monitored during most missions by a specialist. There was great support to multi-
cultural bilingual interventions, including ensuring that indigenous representatives were satisfied
with the process.

More importantly than IDA's traditional supervision efforts, was the role its staff played to help
ensure that Honduras became part of the EFA-FTI initiative. IDA lent support to the Government
both (i) to prepare its sector-wide development plan (focusing on improving 6th grade completion
in the country) and (ii) to define the alignment and harmonization guidelines for donors--
including donors to contribute funds to a pool (e.g., Germany, Canada and Sweden), donors only
wishing to harmonize strategically through an agreed set of education policies and indicators for
primary education (e.g., US and Japan).

Specifically, IDA's team designed and implemented a workshop in Bolivia, where all four EFA-
FTI LAC countries participated to identify the processes, technical inputs, and Government's
leadership role needed for a sector-wide plan and to provide incentives for donor harmonization.
A network was also created among these four countries to share lessons learned on designing and
implementing the EFA-FTI program.

Following the Bolivia Workshop, IDA facilitated a series of strategic planning workshops among
donors and the GoH to define the needs, goals, and comparative advantages of each actor
supporting EFA-FTI. Also, IDA's team provided support to the Ministry of Education, especially
the Planning Department, to prepare the sector wide plan for primary education, including


                                                 25

indicators, targets, and education and management strategies needed to increased 6th grade
completion and gender parity.

During the implementation of the EFA-FTI program, IDA's team was the leading technical donor
supporting the design of a pool-fund, required by donors wishing to pool their resources in favor
of EFA-FTI. IDA's technical assistance included legal, procurement, financial management and
alliance building support. IDA continue to provide technical support in implementing and
revising agreed procedures such as harmonized supervision missions, technical studies,
institutional building, and monitoring of the EFA-FTI plan and indicators, alignment and
harmonization goals, and fiduciary support.

It should be noted, nonetheless, that many EFA-FTI donors resented the fact that IDA resources
were never included in the pooled fund, creating some tensions during implementation.
Originally, IDA funds were not pooled because they were channeled through this Project. During
the preparation of the follow-up operation, IDA's team concluded that MoE's fiduciary systems
still did not comply with IDA requirements so that credit resources could not be pooled with
donors until fiduciary deficiencies were corrected. It was agreed that during the first half of
implementation of the new project there would be additional efforts to improve MoE's fiduciary
systems; pooling of funds would be re-evaluated during the project's mid-term review.

Finally, during the last year of project implementation, IDA's supervision team participated in the
preparation of the follow-up operation, ensuring that the new operation continued supporting
areas that required technical and/or financial support.     As such, the new project continues
supporting many activities started under this credit and building upon them. Additionally, the
Credit Agreement for the new operation includes a couple of covenants that are linked to this
Project ­ to ensure that PROHECO teachers receive the pension fund they contributed under this
Project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory based on the following:

     · Thorough project preparation, based on good quality sector work, considering inputs
         from stakeholders, and close collaboration with the Borrower.
     · Serious supervision of and support to implementation of indigenous plan.
     · Local operations officer expediting IDA's response time and providing direct support to
         Ministry's implementation team.
     · Frequent and well staffed missions during supervision, and follow-up to issues identified
         during missions.
     · Leadership in coordinating Government and donors in preparation of EFA-FTI initiative.
     · Strong technical support to the Government in preparing and supervising EFA-FTI
         proposal.
     · Strong fiduciary technical assistance, particularly in carrying out the large ICB for the
         purchase of textbooks.
     · Frequent field visits to schools and meeting with stakeholders, to identify implementation
         problems at the "receiving end" of the interventions.
     · Close coordination with team preparing follow-up operation.




                                                 26

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower's performance during preparation and implementation is rated as satisfactory. The
three administrations in power during project's preparation and implementation showed
commitment to the Project's main development objective. More importantly, the Government's
education sector goals remained unchanged, even with changes in administration. In addition to
the Ministry of Education's support, IDA's team had the support of the Ministry of Finance, both
in terms of ensuring that budget was available to finance project activities­particularly the
payment of PROHECO teacher salaries--as well as close follow up of Project progress. When
the Government requested a one year closing extension, it readily made resources available to
cover the cost of the staff in the implementation unit. The exception to this was the financing of
the school projects (PECs), which were discontinued by the Government due to lack of funding.

As previously stated, there was a strong ownership of the PROHECO model, originating from
interactions between the governments of Honduras and El Salvador. The design of PROHECO
originated at the GoH, who later asked for IDA's technical and financial support to expand its
implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Project was implemented by the Ministry of Education, through an implementing unit (UEP-
Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto). Overall, the MoE's implementation performance is rated as
moderately satisfactory. They were able to implement the Project, surpassing many of its output
goals, with disbursement reaching almost 100 percent despite having about 10 percent more in
resources due to the exchange rate differential. At the same time, there were some shortcomings
in implementation that led to team to assign this rating.

As already stated, the Ministry of Education was highly involved in project preparation. Their
technical personnel worked on the conceptualization of the Project, with the support of the
Ministry of Education of El Salvador. Ministry staff participated in the preparation of the social
assessment and the indigenous development plan.

Project implementation was under the responsibility of the UEP, which handled daily
administration, punctual decision-making, served as IDA's counterpart, liaising with different
technical units of the Ministry, and dealing with fiduciary issues. Overall decision-making
remained the responsibility of the line staff of the Ministry, normally the Minister or Vice
Ministers. In the case of PROHECO and the EIB interventions, the offices responsible for those
areas worked closely with the UEP to ensure satisfactory implementation. This arrangement had
the advantage of keeping important technical decisions under the responsibility of line people of
the Ministry while "protecting" the Project from internal inefficiencies of the Ministry. On the
negative side, this arrangement did little to build institutional capacity of the Ministry.

Both the Ministry in general and UEP in particular had a high turnover of staff, both preceding
and following administration changes, leading to some delays or temporary stagnation in
implementation.     During the three months following the November 2005 elections, project
implementation almost halted while UEP staff were waiting for new appointments. The UEP was
particularly subject to political interference in the appointments, leading IDA's team to establish a
staffing ceiling in 2005 and to object requests to hire more staff after that.


                                                   27

Another failing of the implementing agency was their inability to satisfactorily implement the
Japanese Grant (PHRD).       Between August 2004, when the Government signed the grant
agreement, and June 2006, the only funds used were those allocated to training and workshops ­
about 5 percent of total grant. The remaining PHRD funds remained untouched for almost two
years, when half of it was cancelled. By Project completion, about one-third of the original grant
had not been spent. This was a waste of much needed resources, particularly as the grant focused
on providing technical assistance for institutional strengthening. At the same time, it should be
mentioned that UEP members informed the ICR team that they were not involved in preparing
the grant proposal ­not even consulted-- and only became aware of it once the grant signed.
Furthermore, UEP's staff mentioned that in 2005 they submitted a few proposals to IDA on the
use of the resources ­after the grant was already approved and signed--but the Association did
not grant them the no objection.

Other shortcomings include the fact that some of the institutional debilities that plagued the
Ministry of Education affected the Project, causing delays. Decisions that needed to be taken by
high level Ministry technical personnel ­ types of learning materials to purchase, purchase of new
textbooks vs. more of the existing ones, etc--were delayed, causing procurement delays.
Furthermore, neither MoE nor UEP ever managed to develop a satisfactory and/or comprehensive
monitoring system linking financial and physical implementation. Finally, the Ministry never
prioritized the maintenance of the student assessment system, allowing years of work to be put
aside until another donor decided to finance it.

On the fiduciary side, as described in section 2.4 above, procurement and financial management
oscillated between satisfactory and moderately satisfactory. The financial audits were clean and
without major observations. While in general the UEP did a satisfactory job in procurement and
financial management, IDA's supervision team identified punctual but recurrent problems in
those areas. In financial management, the UEP was unable to reconcile its expenditures for over
one year. The problem originated when the UEP moved from using SOEs to FMRs as a
disbursement mechanism, and continued until IDA's financial management specialist dedicated a
supervision mission to reviewing all FMR applications previously submitted and providing
hands-on support to the UEP's team. Several mistakes were found, including duplication of
information, application of wrong counterpart percentages, and others.

Another problem encountered with financial management was the lack of sufficient training of
AECO and ADEL members to carry out their financial responsibilities. This was particularly
important as AECOs were responsible for managing the transfers for teacher salaries and for the
school project grants (PECs). ADELs were also responsible for managing PECs. This problem
became more apparent toward the end of Project implementation when field visits identified two
problems. First, it was determined that some of the PROHECO teachers' pension contribution
had not been properly managed, to a degree due to delays on the Government's part in providing
correct and timely guidance to AECOs on how to manage those resources. Once alerted to this
problem, the Government swiftly provided guidance to AECOs on how to proceed with the
pensions. On the other hand, it took more than six months for the Government to satisfactorily
respond to IDA's requests that a full audit of these funds be carried. Second, in the reconciliation
of PEC expenditures, auditors found that some ADELs and AECOs did not maintain the proper
documentation and by project completion the UEP was still trying to reconcile those expenditures.




                                                 28

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Given the many achievements but also the shortcomings, the ICR's team rated overall borrower
performance as moderately satisfactory. On the positive side there was:

     · Borrower's ownership and commitment during preparation.
     · Commitment to Project's PDO, through three administration changes.
     · Borrower's ability to implement the Project in a reasonable period with almost full
        disbursement, meeting most of its output indicators and some of its outcome indicators.
     · Sustainability of PROHECO schools and their teachers after project completion.
     · Strong commitment to Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP), surpassing all
        targets.
     · Availability of counterpart funds throughout most of implementation, despite severe
        fiscal constraints in the country.
     · Institutional strengthening and integration of the PROHECO and PRONEEAAH offices.
     · Commitment to EFA-FTI.

On the shortcomings, the following affected the team's decision:

     · Staff turnover and political appointments of UEP.
     · Lack of commitment to continue supporting and financing the student assessment system.
     · Inability to develop a comprehensive monitoring system for the Ministry of Education.
     · Punctual fiduciary problems, including the delay in prioritizing the audit of PROHECO
        teacher pension and taking actions to address the issue when it was first identified.
     · Inability to satisfactorily implement the PHRD, causing a return of half of it to the
        Government of Japan.

6. Lessons Learned

Design

Adequacy and attribution of outcome indicators.              Similarly to other education projects
prepared by the Bank and IDA in the early 2000s, this Project's indicators present measurement
challenges as well as raises attribution questions. First, some indicators did not have a baseline at
the on-set of implementation. This proved to be a challenge given Honduras' inability to produce
reliable data --still true today. Second, some indicators, particularly those used as proxies for
quality improvements, are also influenced by factors outside of the Project ­for instance, drop out
rates if probably more affected by poverty than school quality, particularly in the short run;
teachers attendance only improved with salary negotiations. Third, student assessments are not
necessarily good indicators of quality improvement when there is a very large influx of new
students into the system, as it happened in Honduras.          Finally, measuring perceptions and
attitudes is a difficult task and of no value in terms of measuring project outcomes ­particularly
when there is no baseline. Therefore, project preparation teams should select less and simpler
indicators, and ensure that the existing data is reliable in measuring them before a project
becomes effective. In particular, student assessment results should not be used as outcome
indicators in countries where there is a strong push to increase enrollment and/or when those
systems are not well-established.




                                                  29

Balancing long-term goals and realistic project expectations. While the institutional problems
of Honduras' education sector were clearly diagnosed and there was a consensus on the need to
push for institutional strengthening, one should be realistic about establishing outcome indicators
in this area. This Project, like its predecessor, failed to achieve the expected strengthening of the
sector. At the same time, perhaps the plan was overly optimistic, and underestimated the
difficulties of changing ingrained habits and traditions.

Establishing parallel education modalities. The PROHECO model effectively responded to a
shortage of schools in remote areas.         Likewise, it created successful school and teacher
accountability systems by involving communities. However, during project preparation there was
little consideration of the future implication of having two different education modalities in
Honduras ­with two sets of teachers with different benefits. The Government will need to
carefully manage the two systems as it may result in future tensions in the education sector,
particularly among PROHECO teachers who feel at a disadvantage compared traditional teachers.
Project preparation teams need to ensure that this consideration is pondered when supporting the
introduction of alternative education modalities.

Implementation

Institutionalization of alternative education delivery models to reach remote areas. The
school-based management option has proven to reach communities in rural and remote areas ­ as
shown in Brazil, El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, and Nicaragua ­ with the advantage of
increasing accountability of teachers and school staff to the local communities. The different
forms of community education also seem to better respond to local realities and cultural
differences, thus their success in serving nine different ethnic groups in Honduras.
Notwithstanding the advantages of the model, special attention needs to be given to ensure that
they are institutionalized so as to guarantee their physical and financial sustainability, adequate
supervision, education quality, and teacher rights.

Fiscal sustainability of new interventions. During both preparation and supervision, project
teams need to remain keenly aware of the recurrent costs generated by project activities to ensure
fiscal sustainability. This is particularly true as original project targets get expanded during
implementation. In the case of this Project, there was a 25 percent increase in the number of
PROHECO schools created, a 20 percent increase in the EIB schools established, and almost
twice as many teachers hired. Original fiscal scenarios for the Project did not contemplate such
increases. Fortunately, the Government was able to assume full responsibility for these recurrent
costs due to the approval of the Heavily Indebted Poor Country Initiative (HIPC) and the
Multilaterial Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI).

High start-up cost of running community-based programs rural areas.                     Despite the
advantages of involving parents and communities in the management/delivery of education, there
are high start up costs. Communities need to be trained to perform their new roles; they need to
receive on-going support to ensure they are performing what is expected of them; and there needs
to be strong supervision at the school level. In this Project, AECO and ADEL members received
training to perform their functions ­particularly financial management--and some support and
supervision from district offices. As the schools were many and scattered around, several staff
were hired for this purpose. This resulted in heavy administrative cost of the program, some
captured under the cost of Component IV. Still, far greater and closer support and supervision
would have been necessary to prevent problems with the financial reconciliation of PECs and the
teacher pension problem.



                                                  30

Benefits of transferring resources directly to school. Despite previously mentioned challenges
in reconciling financial transfers to schools, schools are generally in the best position to
efficiently and effectively manage their resources. Direct transfers to schools enable them to
allocate resources according to their priorities, in a faster and often more efficient way. PECs
proved to be a powerful tool in Honduras's rural areas, both in terms of responding to minor but
urgent infrastructure needs as well as financing needed inputs for classrooms. Communities
seemed more willing to provide in-kind contributions, particularly with labor, to complete the
transfers. Finally, supervision teams were left with the impression that communities felt more
ownership for their schools when delegated the financial responsibility for their upkeep.

School autonomy needs to be accompanied by financial transfers and formal responsibilities.
The AECOs and ADELs clearly demonstrated that communities can be successfully engaged in
school management if assigned a formal responsibility and resources. Both AECOs and ADELs
were in place and functioning while the Government was transferring resources for them to
implement their school projects (PECs). As soon as those transfers stopped at the end of 2005,
ADELs ceased to have a formal responsibility and, in most cases, disintegrated. At the same time,
AECOs continued functioning as they remained formally responsible for managing teachers,
including paying them. In 2007, when the Government started transferring PEC funds to schools
again, many ADELs needed to be re-constituted, a problem that did not occur with AECOs.

Alternative strategies and lending instruments to tackle institutional weakness. Despite
correctly listing institutional weakness as an important bottleneck preventing greater sector
efficiency, the Project was unable to promote significant improvements in this area. While
disappointing this result is not surprising as institutional improvements depend on a series of
factors, most important of which is the Government's strong commitment to change prevailing
public sector practices. Additionally, modernizing such a large sector also normally implies
changing chains of command, altering hierarchical and power relations, and personally affecting
staff. Therefore, on the Government's side, a pre-condition for strengthening and modernizing
education is strong and continuous political commitment. A traditional sector investment credit
may not provide sufficient incentives for such a change, particularly in a highly politicized
country such as a Honduras, with four year presidential terms. Perhaps a performance-based
instrument would have provided a better incentive for Honduras to stay on track.

Multi-lateral organizations and donor coordination. Both IDA and donors have played a
fundamental role in promoting improvements in Honduras' education sector. They have been the
source of financing and technical assistance that have enabled millions of children to attend
schools and have pedagogical materials, including textbooks. At the same time, in the context of
weak institutional capacity, these agencies' priorities and strategies are not always aligned with
the country's own priorities. This is particularly true when coordination is insufficient, and
governments are weak to defend their own priorities. Furthermore, excessive resources enable
governments to avoid hard decisions that would improve the sector's efficiency. Therefore,
multi-laterals and donors should not only coordinate their technical diagnosis and interventions
but also their financing so as to ensure that their interventions are not creating further problems to
the sector or enabling unsustainable strategies and practices.

The power of information. Information is an important tool to improve school performance and
accountability. Unfortunately, due to the deficient education data, the Government has not able
to use this instrument in its pursuit to improve their education system.

Advantage of local staff. The Project benefitted from the presence of a local operations office in
the country office. The local staff enabled quicker turn around time to address project issues,


                                                  31

provided closer support of Ministry of Education staff, as well as a stronger supervision presence
in the field. Additionally, dialogue with Government authorities was more fluid and less formal -
-as it was frequent-- fostering greater trust between the two.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
n/a

(b) Cofinanciers
n/a

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
n/a




                                                  32

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                    Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest
           Components                                                             Percentage of
                                       (USD millions)         Estimate (USD
                                                                 millions)          Appraisal

1. Local Application of the
National Curriculum (Preschool
and Basic Education ­ Grades 1 ­               9.71                 12.27             126

6)
2. Community-based Provision of
Preschool and Basic Education                 14.49                 12.30              85
Services
3. School-based Management for
Rural Communities                              9.96                   9.65             97

4. Strengthening of Institutional
Support for Community
Participation and School-based                11.23                 18.81             167

Management Programs


            Total Baseline Cost               45.39                   0.00

Physical Contingencies                         2.41                   0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                            0.00                   0.00            0.00
              Total Project Costs             47.80                  53.03            111
Front-end fee PPF                              0.00                   0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00                   0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required                47.80                  53.03



(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest

           Source of Funds                  Type of         Estimate      Estimate   Percentage of
                                         Cofinancing          (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                            millions)     millions)
Borrower                                                           6.30          5.70        90.4
International Development                                                    (*)
Association (IDA)                                                 41.50         47.30       114.0

(*) Amount increased due to appreciation of SDR in relation to US$.




                                                 33

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Project achieved the following outputs under its components:

Component 1. Local Application of National Curriculum (US$12.27 million equivalent of
final total Project cost; 126% of original estimate). While this component aimed to support the
implementation of the national curriculum in rural multigrade, intercultural and bilingual
schools, the Project ended up financing a much broader set of related activities, including the
actual elaboration and initial implementation of the National Curriculum.             By Project
completion, this component was considered Satisfactory as it had achieved most of its outputs.

A. Validation of the National Curriculum for Preschool and Lower Basic Education (grades
1 to 6) by Rural Teachers. This sub-component was designed to support rural teacher's
feedback regarding: (i) national curriculum reforms, programs, methodologies and tools for its
implementation in rural, intercultural and bilingual school; and (ii) pedagogical strategies to
address learning disabilities. In addition, this sub-component would support the coordination of
a similar teachers and education stakeholders' validation process in poor urban areas not
addressed by this project. This scope of this sub-component was significantly widened during
implementation.      During project design, it was agreed that the credit would finance the
adaptation of the new curriculum to rural areas. However, by the time the Project began
implementation the new curriculum still was not designed and the Government asked for the
IDA's support to finish it. Thus, the Project ended up financing the finalization and validation
of the new national curriculum.


         Original Output Indicators                          Final Output Indicators

    · Report from teachers validating the              · National curriculum designed,
         curricular options proposed by the                validated, and finalized for pre-
         Ministry of Education.                            school and grades 1 ­ 6
    · Available and validated pedagogical              · 10,000 manuals distributed
         guidelines to identify learning
         disabilities.
    · Study on curricular pedagogical and              · Not implemented
         other associated needs of urban poor
         schools.

B.    Effective Application of Curriculum and Appropriate Educational Materials for
Preschool and Primary Rural Schools. This sub-component was designed to: (i) support the
integration and implementation of various rural multigrade teaching and preschool modalities in
the country; (ii) provide the appropriate methodologies and didactic materials to implement
multigrade pedagogical strategies in rural schools; and (iii) provide the appropriate
methodologies and didactic materials to implement intercultural and bilingual education
strategies in rural indigenous communities representing all nine ethnic groups in the country.

This sub-component had the scope of its activities expanded from its original rural area focus to
have national coverage. While the national curriculum was successfully completed in 2003, the
distribution of new curriculum and training of teachers on it was delayed due to: (i) problems
with the bidding process for the materials and textbooks; (ii) conflict with the teachers' unions,
causing schools to close and teacher training to be cancelled; and (iii) the 2004 staff turnover at



                                                  34

the Ministry of Education. The delay in producing and distributing materials resulted in further
delays in training teachers. Therefore, the Ministry is still implementing the new curriculum.


          Original Output Indicators                             Final Output Indicators

    · Available and validated preschool and               · 1,098 teacher guides and 141,000
      pedagogical adaptations and didactic                  student workbooks for pre-school
      materials for 1,200 preschool teachers                designed and distributed.
      and 30,000 students.
    · Available and validated multigrade                  · 38,000 teachers' guides and 1.2
      pedagogical adaptations and didactic                  million textbooks distributed to
      materials for 4,500 lower basic                       primary schools.
      education (grades 1-6) teachers and
      300,000 students.
    · Available and validated intercultural               · Teacher guides designed and
      and bilingual pedagogical adaptations                 distributed to19:
      and didactic materials for:                               o 1,251 EIB pre-school teacher
           o 1,200 EIB lower primary                                guides
                education teachers                              o 14,800 EIB pre-school student
           o 45,000 lower primary education                         work books
                students                                        o 1,121 EIB primary school
           o 400 EIB preschool teachers                             teacher guides
           o 15,000 EIB preschool student                       o 102,000 EIB primary school
                                                                    student textbooks
                                                          · 2.5 million social and natural science
                                                            textbooks for primary level students.

C. Student Learning Assessment and Education Quality Evaluation Strategies. This sub-
component aimed to:           (i) support design and implementation of a validation learning
assessment; (ii) develop and distribute student assessment guides for teachers in primary and
preschool levels; (iii) disseminate the student learning results to districts and communities; (iv)
finance external bi-annual standardized assessments for 3rd and 6th graders; and (v) evaluate
innovative community-based education programs such as PROHECO, Community Based
Preschool Services (CCPREB) and Intercultural and Bilingual Education (EIB).

The Project supported efforts to develop and implement a National Education Quality
Evaluation System (Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de la Calidad Educativa - SINECE) by
financing some of SINECE's key elements, including manuals to evaluate school and teacher
performance and the development of learning standards, and the applications of the assessment.
It also financed the unit within the University Francisco Morazán (UMCE) responsible for the
application of the evaluation and its processing.

By Project completion, the UMCE had carried out two sample-based external standardized
assessments for 3rd and 6th graders. The tests were carried in 1,081 schools in 2002 and 1,076




19Materials were produced in Spanish and the seven predominant indigenous languages (Chorti, Tolupan, Pech,
Grifuna, Islenho, Tawahka and Miskita).




                                                   35

schools in 2004. The sampled schools were nationally representative20. The evaluations also
included an assessment of factors influencing learning (Estudio de Factores Asociados al
Rendimiento Academico 2002-2004). In 2004, the evaluation included other elements: (i) a
study of the learning results of PROHECO schools; (ii) a study of a sample of schools included
in the in-service teacher training program (Programa de Formacion Continua - PFC); (iii) a
study of a sample of schools of excellence; and (iv) a comparative study with other Central
America countries. These reports were shared with the schools evaluated. Results were also
disclosed at the National and Departmental levels, and discussed with stakeholders.

During 2005 the UMCE was impacted by political changes, as well as the fact that credit
financing for evaluation activities had come to an end. As discussed in the main body of this
document, the Government did not make adequate arrangements to assume financial
responsibility for UMCE, seriously jeopardizing the work that had been carried out in previous
years. As a result, the external evaluation of 2006 was not carried out as planned. In 2007, with
donor financing, UMCE carried out a sample-based evaluation of 6th graders. Jointly with EFA
donors, the follow-up credit will support the consolidation of the student assessment system.


         Original Output Indicators                                 Final Output Indicators

    · Available and validated student                        · 40,500 1st ­ 6th grade teachers
       assessment guidelines and instruments                    received assessment guidelines
       for preschool and grades 1-6
    · Available and disseminated results of                  · 3rd and 6th grade students assessed in
       annual standardized test scores for 3rd                  2002 and 2004
       and 6th graders in the 4,000 rural and                · Results of assessment delivered to
       EIB communities targeted by the                          1,076 rural schools and disclosed at
       Project                                                  National and Department levels


D.   In-service Teacher Development and Training Programs.                   This sub-component was
designed to support: (i) in-service university training programs for rural teachers, district staff
and teacher trainers; (ii) quality enhancement programs for community-based volunteers
supporting teaching in preschool and intercultural and bilingual schools; and (iii) in-classroom
training and follow up for rural teachers.

This sub-component aimed to improve the quality of teaching through training teachers ­
particularly those in remove areas--and provide them incentives for their performance.
Incentives were to be in the form of participation in international exchange programs and field
visits. By Project completion, all the numerical targets had been achieved. Additionally,
teachers did not receive the anticipated incentives.

The implementation of this sub-component had to be adapted to respond to the introduction of
the national curriculum and the additional financing coming from the EFA. Project design
envisioned that teacher training would focus on multigrade techniques, student assessment and
school-based management. During implementation the content of the training had to focus on




20They included rural and urban schools as well as PROHECO and EIB schools.




                                                      36

training teachers at a national level on the new curriculum. Therefore, the follow-up operation
will address the need to train multigrade teachers.

The in-service training was delivered by the University Francisco Morazán, using the cascade
model. The training was negatively affected by the frequent teacher strikes, which ended up
blocking many of the training sessions. An assessment of the training was carried out in 2006,
which showed low degree of satisfaction in its beneficiaries and low effectiveness. Based on
the assessment, the training was modified in 2007 to substitute the cascade method for a gradual
training, and to first train teachers rather than other education personnel.

The EIB teachers were trained by PRONEEAAH and 816 of them received a certification as a
bilingual and multi-cultural teacher. These teachers did not previously have a teaching degree.
Additionally, 40 EIB teachers received a degree in management. The EIB training contributed
to cover a vacuum in the Honduran education system where there is a scarcity of programs to
train EIB teachers in traditional universities.


         Original Output Indicators                             Final Output Indicators

    · Training and performance assessments             · Trained:
      in pedagogical methods and community                     o 500 district directors
      participation for:                                       o 520 teacher trainers (escuelas
          o 500 district staff                                     normales)
          o 400 teachers trainers (from                        o 1,238 preschool volunteers
              escuelas normales)                               o 300 EIB preschool volunteers
          o 1,200 preschool community                          o 3,378 primary level teachers
              volunteers                                       o 816 primary level EIB teachers
          o 300 intercultural and bilingual                        certified
              community based volunteers                       o 40 EIB teachers graduate in
          o 2,900 lower basic education                            school mgmt.
              rural teachers
          o 600 intercultural and bilingual
              teachers


Component 2. Community-based Provision of Preschool and Basic Education Services
(US$12.3 million equivalent of total final Project cost; 85% of original estimate).           The
component aimed to expand PROHECO, a community-based education program for
preschoolers through 6th grade in rural and remote communities, including areas with
intercultural bilingual populations. By Project completion this component was considered
Highly Satisfactory as it succeeded in achieving and surpassing all of its outputs, and the Project
could take credit for increasing education access in remote rural areas.

A.    Strengthening and Expansion of the Honduras Community Education Program
(PROHECO).        This sub-component was designed to support:            (i) organizing community
education councils (AECOs) in remote communities; (ii) creating new PROHECO schools in
those communities; and (iii) attracting and retaining at least 720 new basic education teachers
and 600 preschool teachers in these schools.

By Project completion, all of the outputs for this sub-component had been surpassed.
Additionally, the program had been institutionalized within the Ministry of Education. At the
central level, a technical unit in charge of PROHECO was created and adequately staffed during


                                                   37

the life of the Project. Before Project completion the unit was already fully financed by the
Government and institutionalized in the MOE. At the Departmental level, the PROHECO
program was gradually integrated into the existing institutional arrangements -- there was a
PROHECO coordinator and agents of change (promotores) appointed at the department level.

The interventions financed under this Project were very successful in covering unmet demand
for preschool and primary education in rural and remote areas, thus leading to an increase
enrollment in rural areas. This sub-component also financed the establishment of primary
"preparatory" centers during two months of the summer vacations for pre-school level students
about to enter 1st grade in the following school year. These centers (CCEPREB) functioned
until 2005 and responded to the necessity of improving student readiness. A total of 12,000
students "graduated" from the CCEPREBs during project implementation.


           Original Output Indicators                                    Final Output Indicators

 · 600 PROHECO schools in rural areas                          · 800 PROHECO schools created and
       created and AECO members trained.                            AECOs members trained.
 · 720 PROHECO teachers (grades 1-9)                           · 1,390 primary level teachers hired and
       and 600 preschool volunteers hired and                       fully paid with Government budget
       retained.                                               · 900 preschool volunteers "hired."
 · 1,200 new preschool students served in                      · 7,032* PROHECO new preschool
       rural areas.                                                 students served in rural areas.
 · 27,600 new lower primary level students                     · 32,250* PROHECO new lower primary
       served in rural areas.                                       students served in rural areas.
* Latest Government data shows a greater number of preschool and primary school students entering the system than
the data collected by the ICR team in December 2007.

B.    Creation of Intercultural and Bilingual Schools using the PROHECO Model for
Community Participation and Parental Involvement. This sub-component was designed to
adapt PROHECO strategies to the education needs of the nine ethnic communities of Honduras.

By Project completion all of the outputs for this sub-component had been surpassed. For the
first time in Honduras schools addressed the cultural and linguistic needs of indigenous and
ethnic groups. Schools were created, teachers trained and materials prepared and distributed.


           Original Output Indicators                                    Final Output Indicators

 · 200 PROHECO-EIB schools created                             · 252 PROHECO-EIB schools created
       and AECO members trained.                                    and AECO members trained.
 · 200 EIB teachers (grades 1-9), 200 EIB                      · 252 EIB primary level teachers hired
       preschool volunteers, and 200 EIB                            and fully paid with Government budget.
       community volunteers hired and                          · 171 EIB preschool volunteers "hired."
       retained.                                               · 1,260 AECO volunteers trained21.




21It is not clear if this total only refers to AECO members in EIB communities or all EIB members.




                                                          38

Component 3.       School-Based Management for Rural Communities (US$9.65 million
equivalent of total final Project cost; 97% of original estimate). This component aimed at
creating an effective school organization strategy in rural areas through the involvement of
principals, teachers, parents and students to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their
schools. It intended to adapt the school council model of PROHECO to the needs and existing
organizational structure of traditional rural schools. By Project completion this component was
rated as Satisfactory.

A. Development of a School-Based Planning and Community Participation System in the
Rural Sector. This sub-component was designed to: (i) support the organization of school
councils in rural communities for traditional schools (ADELs ­ Asociaciones de Desarrollo
Educativo Local); and (ii) train ADEL members to improve school management capacity,
education planning, and administration of financial transfers for school improvement activities.

By Project completion, this sub-component had exceeded its targets but the sustainability of
ADELs was unlikely. As explained in the main body of this document, the Ministry faced
problems granting a legal status to the ADELs. As the legal status of ADELs was linked to the
broader decentralization law, which was not approved during project implementation, the status
and role of ADELs was left in a limbo after Project completion. Furthermore, as will be
mentioned under the next sub-component, once ADELs ceased to receive PEC funds, most
dissolved.


         Original Output Indicators                          Final Output Indicators

 · 2,800 new ADELs created in traditional            · 3,774 ADELs created in traditional rural
     rural schools.                                     schools.
 · 400 new ADELs created in EIB schools.             · 407 new ADELs created in EIB schools.


B. School-Based Design and Implementation of School Improvement Projects (Proyectos
Educativos de Centro ­ PECs). This sub-component was designed to support: (i) planning of
school improvement activities by AECOs and ADELs through school development projects
(PECs); (ii) transferring resources to AECOs and ADELs to implement PECs; and (iii) training
of teachers and parents on school improvement.

The targets for the PECs both for AECOs and ADELs were greatly surpassed, as shown below.
Schools initially received US$1,000 in funds that were used to meet the diverse needs of
schools. Originally grants were to be used for activities related to teaching and learning, but
schools often needed resources for minor improvements in school infrastructure and school
materials. In many instances, schools negotiated with municipalities so they would complement
the funds. Project funds financed PECs until the end of 2005. In 2006 the Government was
supposed to assume responsibility for these transfers but that was not possible as in early 2006
the Government eliminated enrollment fees, and had to transfer funds to schools to compensate
for their loss of these fees. With the appreciation of the SDR, more credit funds became
available in local currency. Therefore, in 2007 both Government and IDA agreed to allocate
part of those resources to finance PECs. This time schools were given more flexibility in how
to use those funds. Each school received US$2,000 equivalent. The ICR mission noticed that
in most schools, communities provided in-kind contributions to complement PEC transfers,
"stretching" the resources to accomplish what they identified as a priority.




                                                 39

The PEC experience was overall highly satisfactory, demonstrating that some education
interventions are better carried out at the school level. School communities have a vested
interest in using resources effectively and are better placed to prioritize their school needs.
Likewise, PEC resources greatly empowered school councils (both AECOs and ADELs). These
transfers demonstrated to Government and donors the advantages of using local communities in
the education sector. As a result, some EFA donors have adopted the same mechanism to carry
out "their" interventions. Unfortunately, despite the success of this experience, PECs proved to
be unsustainable for the Government. Furthermore, traditional school associations (ADELs)
quickly dissolved once they no longer had the responsibility of managing resources.


         Original Output Indicators                             Final Output Indicators

 · Planning and financing of:                         · PECs financed in:
          o 1,400 PECs by AECOs                                o 2,128 PECs by AECOs
          o 2,800 PECs by ADELs                                o 3,554 PECs by ADELs
          o 800 PECs in EIB communities                        o 252 PECs in EIB communities
 · Strengthening of 400 teacher learning              · 300 teacher learning centers (CADs)
     centers (CADs)                                        strengthened
 · 1,500 training centers for AECO and                · Not implemented
     ADEL parents

Component 4. Strengthening of Institutional Support for Community Participation and
School-Based Management Program (US$18.81 million equivalent of total final Project cost;
167% of original estimate). This component was designed to strengthen the Ministry of
Education including its decentralized offices (Departmental Education Offices and School
Districts) to guarantee effective support for community participation and school-based
management strategies for the rural education sector in Honduras.

By Project completion, the lack of implementation progress under this component was greater
than the improvements one could observe. Nonetheless, an ICR team member who was part of
the original preparation team and who had the historic perspective, highlighted many positive
changes in the institutional area. Still, the team felt that overall progress neither measured up to
expectations nor to the component's expected outputs. Therefore, this component was rated as
Unsatisfactory. Section 3.5 (b) of the main text discusses the progress and shortcomings in this
area in more detail, therefore this annex will focus on output indicators.

A. Central Support of the Community Participation and School-Based Management System
in the Rural Sector. This sub-component aimed to: (i) strengthen the central units of the
Ministry of Education which support school organization and community participation in the
rural sector; and (ii) support the Unidad Técnica de Transformación de la Educación Nacional
(UTEN), which would coordinate new education investment programs and manage the national
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign for education reforms.

As explained in section 1.6 of the main body of this document, the institutional arrangements
were revised during the initial phase of implementation and the incoming administration
decided to dissolve the UTEN. A financial unit (UAF) was created in 2002, becoming the
Project Implementation Unit (UEP) in 2003. Throughout most of implementation, the UEP was
adequately staffed with technical personnel who provided support to project implementation.
Generally, the staff of UEP and key Ministry's offices collaborated in the preparation and
implementation of annual implementation plans.



                                                 40

The Project also supported the establishment of the PROHECO and PRONEEAAH offices, as
well as the EFA office. The first two had a key role in implementing project activities and were
mainstreamed into the Ministry's structured before Project completion.           The EFA office
remained in charge implementing the activities financed by donors and will be the office in
charge of implementing IDA's follow-up operation.

IDA's support for institutional strengthening concentrated at the national level. The Project
financed technical assistance and training for technical personnel to elaborate the administrative
system for human resources in education (Sistema Administrativo de Recursos Humanos
Docentes ­ SIARHD). The new system, though still being updated, allowed improving the
payment system to personnel in the education sector (through the banking system). The Project
also supported the strengthening of the information system for education statistics. Personnel
were trained and there was some progress in digitizing and processing education statistics.
Nevertheless, by Project completion, there was not an information system generating reliable
education statistics.


         Original Output Indicators                          Final Output Indicators

 · Key central offices (such as UTEN,               · UEP (instead of UTEN), PROHECO,
     PROHECO and other) staffed with high               PRONEEAAH, and EFA offices staffed
     performing technical staff and                     and properly operating.
     appropriate guiding instruments                · Manuals completed.
     (manual, information systems, EIC              · Information campaigns incomplete.
     campaigns) for community-based
     education programs.
 · Available databases with results for             · Some monitoring databases available
     monitoring reports for PROHECO,                    but not in an integrated manner.
     CCPREB, IEB and transfers to PECs.                 Financial and monitoring systems not
                                                        integrated. Data reliability an issue.
                                                        Financial data available at national
                                                        level.
 · Accounting systems and aggregated                · IDA requirements met at Project
     financial consolidations for Project               Implementation Unit (UEP) but not
     Management, Audit and IDA                          transferred to Ministry offices
     requirements.
 · Updated information and inventories on           · Inventory of goods purchased with
     project providing inputs aggregated by             credit financing available at national
     schools, district, department and                  level.
     national level.
 · Successful implementation of IEC                 · Not implemented
     campaign in support of community
     participation and school-based
     management.


B. Strengthening the Capacity of Departmental Education Offices to Plan Educational
Needs and to Monitor Community-Based Education Programs. This component aimed to: (i)
support the design and implementation of an information system for the programs financed by
the Project (PROHECO, EIB and CCPREB); (ii) finance the training, acquisition and



                                                41

installation of equipment to improve the administrative efficiency of departmental offices in
monitoring and evaluating results of education programs; and (iii) establish a financial
administrative system to monitor, legalize, and audit financial transfers for school
improvements channeled directly to schools, communities and education districts.

During implementation, the Ministry of Education decided to focus each donor and multilateral
financing in a different level of the system (national, department, and district levels). As a
result, IDA financing focused on interventions at the central level, while IADB and GTZ
concentrated their institutional support at the departmental and district levels.

The outputs of this sub-component are mixed, as the table below shows.


          Original Output Indicators                           Final Output Indicators

 · Updated statistics by education program           · Some statistical data available but with
      being implemented in the department.              serious quality issues.
 · Monitoring reports aggregated at the              · Some monitoring databases available
      departmental level for PROHECO,                   but not in an integrated manner. Data
      CCPREB, IEB and PEC transfers.                    reliability an issue.
 · Accounting systems and aggregated                 · Data available at Project's
      financial consolidations of legalized             Implementation Unit
      expenditures from AECOs and ADELs
      in the Department.
 · Updated information on education                  · Data available at national level. Only
      inputs and inventories aggregated and             textbook data available down to the
      by school, district, and department level.        school level.


C. Strengthening Capacity of Education Districts to Support Curricular Applications and
Community and School-based Management. This sub-component was designed to finance: (i)
the completion of the basic infrastructure needs of the 86 school districts that had the largest
percentage of rural, intercultural and bilingual schools; (ii) provision of equipment (computers,
furniture and vehicles) to support these districts new role in the promotion, organization,
training, and technical assistance activities for community participation and school-based
management; and (iii) activities to strengthen the school district professional teams so they
could support multigrade teaching, intercultural and bilingual education, community
involvement and school-based management.

This sub-component fell short in achieving its outcomes, financing the rehabilitation and
improvement of a much smaller number of offices ­this may not be a negative outcome as these
structures were not being adequately used. Many district offices were equipped but without a
decentralized education system, their role remained limited.

In terms of strengthening the district teams, this sub-component financed the hiring of
"promotores" to support school management programs, including AECOs and ADELs. By
Project completion, district teams were still not fully empowered and equipped to deal with
school needs. They did, however, maintain a role in data collection, with strong efforts during the
last year of project implementation to improve the gathering of education data.




                                                 42

      Original Output Indicators                     Final Output Indicators

· Proper infrastructure and equipment in      · 25 departmental offices built
  at least 86 school districts.               · 45 offices rehabilitated
                                              · 45 departmental offices furnished
                                              · 70 offices equipped
                                              · 48 vehicles purchased
· Properly formed and trained district        · Trained:
  teams including a district director and at        o 280 district directors
  least 3 district technical officers               o 66 PROHECO coordinators
  (promotores).                                     o 180 promotores
· Positive comments by community              · Non-representative survey carried out.
  leaders, AECO and ADEL members on             Results show positive trend.
  the support provided by their district
  director and their technical officer.
· Implemented systems and data                · Partially implemented to collect data on:
  collection to feed educational statistics     PROHECO, EIB, textbooks, PECs and
  and input inventories to be aggregated at     goods.
  the departmental level.




                                            43

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)
N/A




                                        44

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

         Names                        Title              Unit         Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Joel Reyes             Task Team Leader                 LCSHE Institutional Assess.
Barbara Bruns          Knowledge Coordinator             WBI      Peer Reviewer
Daniel Viens           Sr. Education Specialist                   Peer Reviewer
Darlyn Meza             Consultant                     Consultant PROHECO
Henry Forero-Ramirez   Information System Specialist    LCSPS Technology
Ian Walker             Consultant                      Consultant Cost Benefit Analysis
Kin Bing Wu            Sr. Education Economist          LCSHE Economic Assess.
Madalena dos Santos    Sector Leader                    LCSHD Institutional Assess.
Manuel Vargas          Financial Management Officer     LCSFM Financial Assess.
Massimiliano Paollucci Consultant                       LCSHE Project Cost
M. Rosa Puech          Consultant                       LCSHE Project Preparation
Natalia Moncada        Language Program Assistant       LCSHE Processing
Nelly Weelock          Consultant                      Consultant Project Cost
Reynaldo Pastor        Sr. Council                      LEGLA Legal
Rebecca Santos         Consultant                       LCSHD Financial Mgmt.
Rosa Estrada           Procurement Analyst              LCSPT Procurement
Samia Benbouzid        Language Team Assitant           LCSHE Processing
Ximena Traa-Valarezo   Consultant                       LCSHD Social Assess/ IPDP


Supervision/ICR
Joel Reyes              TTL ­ Preparation ­ July 2003   LCSHE TTL
Emanuela di Gropello   TTL ­ July 2003- Nov. 2006       LCSHE TTL
Andréa C. Guedes        TTL ­ Nov. 2006 ­ Closing       LCSHE TTL
Antonio Leonardo Blasco Financial Management Specialis  LCSFM Financial Mgmt.
Alfonso F. de Guzman   Consultant                       LCSHE Textbook Specialist
Christina Alquinta     Language Team Assistant          LCSHE Processing
Diomedes Berroa        Senior Operations Officer        ECSPS     Procurement
Fabienne Mroczka       Financial Management Analyst     LCSFM Financial Mgmt.
Luis Tineo             Sr Procurement Spec.             LCSPT Procurement
M. Rosa Puech          Consultant                      Consultant ICR Preparation
Manuel Vargas          Sr Financial Mgmt. Specialist    LCSFM Financial Mgmt.
Madalena R. Dos Santos Consultant                       LCSHD Education Specialist
Mary Lou M. Veizaga     Procurement Analyst             LCSPT Procurement
Pilar Gonzalez         Sr. Council                      LEGLA Legal
Rebecca P. Santos      Operations Officer               LCSHD Operations Support
Ximena Traa- Valarezo  Consultant                       LCSHD Safeguards




                                           45

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                 15                        50.09
  FY01                                 14                        75.66
  FY02                                   2                        7.25
                        Total:         29                       115.27
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                   5                      104.30
  FY03                                 15                       106.79
  FY04                                 38                       125.99
  FY05                                 32                       114.73
  FY06                                 32                       101.57
  FY07                                 28                       101.59
  FY08                                 10                        28.76
                        Total:        160                       683.73




                                    46

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
N/A




                                    47

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
N/A




                                     48

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR

                       Unofficial Translation of Borrower's Contribution

ICR Main Conclusions

I. Revised Development Objective and Components

The original PDO was focused on the rural areas. However, the Project expanded its focus to the
national level with changes in the scope of Component I From a target of 4,000 schools, to more
than 11,000. The targets for the Component Expansion of the PROHECO model were expanded
as well, in terms of the number of teachers and students. Besides the Preschool Communal
Centers (CCEPREB) created to function with the PROHECO schools, additional CCEPREB - to
function during the months of December and January - were created at national level. The targets
of the School-Based Management for Rural Communities Component were increased due to the
priority the MOE gave to the creation of AECOs to foster local development. The Institutional
Strengthening Component suffered three major changes:            a) the original Unit of National
Transformation (UTEN) created in 2001, intended to coordinate all investment programs of the
MOE, was closed because its functions overlapped with those of the Vice Ministries within the
new structure created in 2002; b) project funds were allocated for information systems only at the
central level, and not at the departmental level, as originally planned in the PAD; c) the number
of promoters was increased due to local demand of activities concerning the supervision of
PROHECO schools, Schools with ADEL and EIB schools. One of the causes of the increase on
the Component's budget was the need to hire coordinators for key technical units and specialized
technicians that would support the CNB, now with a national coverage, EFA, PROHECO and
ADEL, on central level, was.

II. Achievement of Outcomes

Increase in enrollment rates in preschool by 5 percentage points, which meant an increase of
15,000 students in the period 2000-2005. Since the main targets started to be met in 2003, the
enrollment increased by 9,327 students in the 2002- 2006 period. Increase in enrollment rates
in lower basic education grades 1 to 6 by 8 percentage points: this meant an increase in
enrollment of 28,800 new students for the period 2000-2005. Enrollment at the national level
increased by 65,912 new students in the period 2003-2006.            Improvement of Efficiency
Indicators in Rural Areas: the most significant improvement came in the percentage of 6 year
old children entering first grade. Performance in Standardized Testing: this slightly changed
during the period 2000 to 2004 and during the period 2002 to 2004 the variations are smaller,
with a negative tendency in the scores for sixth grade. Social Achievement and Self esteem:
This outcome was measured through a sample survey of schools and students to measure the
social participation of students. The survey showed greater participation of urban students.
Improvement of Teachers Productivity: the 2004 UMCE report of factors associated with
learning outcomes showed better results in PROHECO schools. The study showed that the total
number of school days taught in rural schools was 154 while in PROHECO schools the number
reached 180 days. Availability and Relevance of Learning Materials in rural Schools: the
majority of schools at national level have the DCNB, the national curriculum and textbooks.
Changes in perception of key education actors: The general opinion of the key actors was that
during the period 2003-2007 the following aspects improved: (a) the physical conditions of the
schools, because the schools managed to gather additional resources to build classrooms,
storerooms, perimeter fences and kitchens. In other cases, they bought equipment for the school,
snacks, tape recorders, furniture for computer equipment, writing desks and working desks; (b)


                                                 49

almost all school-age children are enrolled in school and are attending classes; (c) PROHECO
schools are gradually part of the technical plans and activities of the District and Department
offices; (d) AECOs work in harmony with teachers and have gradually understood the importance
of pedagogic qualifications and personnel continuity; (e) with the Project's support, native
languages are being taught in EIB schools. Perception of Parents and/or AECO and ADEL
association's directors:      Their members consider the following objectives fulfilled by
PROHECO schools: (i) there are no children in their villages without the opportunity to enroll in
school; (ii) teachers regularly go to work; and (iii) adequate buildings have been constructed. In
the visited schools, it was observed that ADELs functioned while there were PEC funds, to
implement them. Perception of District and Department Directors: They consider that the
education in their municipalities has improved considerable in the last years. In their opinion all
schools are implementing the CNB and all teachers have received training.              To improve
PROHECO's sustainability they recommend that the promotion and coordination personnel, as
well as the teachers, have pedagogic instruction and that the teachers of these schools also receive
training in multi grade techniques.

III. Products by Component

Componente I: Local Application of National Curriculum.
ICR rating: Satisfactory

The Sub-component Validation of the National Curriculum for Preschool and Lower Basic
Education: the National Curriculum for Preschool was elaborated in 2001 and the design of the
EIB educational materials in 2003. These include teachers' guides, textbooks in Spanish and in
native languages (Chorti, Tolupán, Pech, Garifuna, Isleño, Tawahka, Miskita). The DCNB was
developed between November 2002 and March 2003. The adaptation of the CNB to the EIB
education started in 2002. The guides, the textbooks in Spanish and native languages for second
and third grades were elaborated between May and August 2007.

The Sub-component Effective Application of Curriculum and Appropriate Educational
Materials for Preschool and Primary Rural Schools: the DCNB documents for preschool and
primary education were distributed to schools in March and April 2007. The Natural and Social
Science textbooks, a new printing of the DCNB for primary and the EIB textbooks were
distributed in November 2007.

The Sub-component for Student Learning Assessment and Education Quality Evaluation
Strategies financed in 2002 and 2004 two bi-annual assessments carried out by UMCE, for 3rd
and 6th grades in a sample of 1,081 and 1,076 schools, respectively. It measured basic contents,
since the DCNB had not been yet implemented in the classrooms. The sample of schools
included rural and urban schools as well as PROHECO and EIB schools.

The Sub-component for In-service Teacher Development and Training Programs surpassed the
targets set for the Lumber of participants in the training program (Programa de Formación
Continua ­ PFC), including an additional group of teachers in PROHECO and EIB schools.

Component II: Community-based Provision of Preschool and Basic Education Services
ICR rating: Highly Satisfactory

The Sub-component for Strengthening and Expansion of PROHECO largely implemented the
strategies foreseen in the PAD, achieving its targets and objectives.



                                                 50

The Sub-component for Creation of Intercultural and Bilingual Schools with the PROHECO
Model for Community and Parental Involvement achieved its targets in 2004. Teachers who
graduated from the training provided under the Project are teaching in several of the PROHECO
schools created in EIB communities.

Component III: School-based Management for Rural Communities
ICR rating: Highly Satisfactory

The Sub-component Development of a School-based Planning and Community Participation
System in the Rural Sector surpassed its targets for creations of ADEL thanks to the
Government's strategy of supporting greater participation at local level.

The Sub-component School-based Design and Implementation of Education Improvement
Projects surpassed its targets for PEC implemented by AECOS and ADELS. In 2007, a total of
1,054 additional PECs were financed thanks to additional funds generated by currency
appreciation of the Credit.

Component IV: Strengthening of Institutional Support for Community Participation and
School-based Management Programs
ICR rating: Satisfactory

The Sub-component for Central Support of the Community Participation and School Based
Management System in the Rural Sector, provided training to personnel, technical assistance,
materials and equipment for the units in the MOE central level implementing components II and
III. The Project strongly supported the Ministry's key units in charge of implementing the CNB
implementation and the Info-technology Unit to strengthen the information systems.

The Sub-component Strengthening Capacity of Departmental Education Offices to Plan
Education Needs and to Monitor Community-based Education Programs financed the cost of
personnel to design and implement information systems, including programming technicians for
the Human Resource Administrative System for Teachers (SIARHD) and educational statistics,
including the personnel to process those statistics from 2003 to 2005.              This allowed the
implementation of critical reforms such as the payment of teachers through banking system.

The Sub-component Strengthening Capacity of Education Districts to Support Curricular
Applications and Community and School-Based Management financed the construction of 25
district offices as well as furniture, equipment, vehicles for about 50 district offices.

IV. Costs and Financing

The original Project costs were of US$41.5 million equivalent of external funding and US$6.3
million of national funding. Thanks to the appreciation of the Credit's currencies credit, the
funds increased in US$5.6 million equivalent, which were invested in additional PEC transfers to
rural schools and in textbooks for the application of the National Basic Curriculum.

In 2004 the country received a Japanese grant for US$715,000 to implement the project. The
grant was partly cancelled due to low use of the funds (in March 2006 only 9.3% of the total had
been used).     The funds supported mainly training on education statistics for departmental
personnel and textbooks.




                                                  51

V. Institutional Development Impact

The Project had an impact in the the following areas of institutional development: (a) planning,
(b) implementation of accounting and payment systems, (c) creation of legal instruments, and (d)
institutional integration of new programs.

VI. Sustainability

The achievements of the Project's targets and products predict a high probability that the
investments will be maintained in the future with regards to children's education, parental
participation, teacher training, availability of materials and equipment, and integration of the
programs in the country's institutional and budgeted structures. The number of children currently
being educated in the 1,050 new PROHECO schools reaches approximately 10,932 in preschool
and 39,657 in primary education. The reduction in repetition and drop out might contribute to an
improvement in primary completion rates, beginning in 2008.

While AECOs continue working actively after completion of the Project, they capture the
profitability of the investments in organization, legalizing, training and supervision supported by
the Project, and their work contributes to guarantee the access to education for children in the
most remote communities. The ADELs have functioned more to implement the PECs. However,
their legal capacity positions them as an excellent tool for greater education management at the
local level.

The teachers in service were trained for preschool and elementary education through the PFC
programs of the UPN, volunteers trained for preschool and professionalized EIB teachers
constitute an excellent asset for the improvement of education quality at the local level.

The availability of textbooks in rural schools, mostly on the medium term, is an important
contribution to the efforts for maintaining coverage, improving efficiency and learning outcomes.
The inclusion of programs created or strengthened by the Project such as: EFA, PROHECO, PFC,
UMCE in the national budget points towards long term sustainability of the Project's investments
in terms of coverage for the children, teacher training and external evaluations.

VII. Lessons Learned

Design Changes. The changes in the range of the objectives and the Project's design that were
done at the beginning of 2002 were necessary. However, these were not legally included in the
credit agreement which would have allowed re-programming the components, activities and
budget according to the complexity of the changes and deadlines for their execution. This would
have permitted the creation of reasonable expectations about the goals that could be reached each
year in terms of study programs, texts, complementary materials, trainings, evaluations and
process feedbacks.

Management.       As of 2003, the UTEN (Technical Unit established to coordinate different
Ministry programs) was dissolved and the Ministry assigned each technical unit within the
Ministry the responsibility of improving coordination of its programs. Due to the Project's
complexity and its importance for education and the country, it was considered that the Project's
success also depended on its continuous supervision of implementation by the MOE authorities.
The creation of a Continuous Strengthening Plan allowed the achievement of the Project's
objectives, including some of the more complex ones such as the production, acquisition and



                                                 52

distribution of the general DCNB and EIB materials.            During implementation, the MOE
personnel limited by the teachers' conflict concerning the teacher's statute.

Decentralization. The institutional strengthening at the departmental and district level was not
carried out as planned; and the district planning, information and supervision systems continue
weak, especially to provide the required pedagogical support to the teachers of almost 8,000 multi
grade rural schools.

Since 2007, the current authorities of the MOE are making great efforts to decentralize training,
transfer resources, planning, and educational data collection. During 2006 and 2007, the Project
demonstrated the important role that departmental, municipal and district levels play in an
efficient distribution of DCNB, CNB and the textbooks to the schools. However, further reforms
are still required to decentralize resources, personnel, goods and key activities to allow the
improvement of the capacities of the departmental, municipal and district offices in order to solve
the innumerable problems of the quality of education.

Integration of International Cooperation. The integration of international cooperation to
support the reform efforts in education has been a permanent objective of the MOE and the World
Bank during implementation project implementation. The EFA Program is a result of those
efforts.

Textbook Distribution. The text distribution plan combined the use of private services for
textbook distribution while also using the Ministry of Education's available resources at the
central, departmental, district and local level. This strategy has supported lower costs and the
strengthening the Ministry of Education's capacity for such a complex activity. By Project
completion, consultants hired by the planning unit had produced all of the necessary materials to
train private contractors and MOE personnel as well as the procedures for private businesses and
MOE in charge of storage and transportation.

Consultancies. In most cases, the products of consultancies were useful for achieving the
Project's targets and outcomes. However, some specific consultancies, with revealing findings
and recommendations were not fully used by the corresponding technical units.            This was
disappointing due to their cost. This is the case of the PROHECO Technical Evaluation and the
Academic Performance and Associated Factors of the UMCE which pointed out institutional and
quality problems that have yet to be solved.

VIII. Monitoring and Evaluation

Monitoring and Evaluation were closely linked to the Project's annual programming exercise
which included: (a) coordination of the POA elaboration, (b) preparation of the quarterly and bi-
annual evaluation reports, and (c) development of the impact indicators' system. In general,
monitoring physical and financial execution was crucial for the Project's implementation until its
closure. Project managers regularly used this tool, which contributed to the achievement of the
Project's targets. In order to elaborate the impact indicators as required in Annex 12 of the PAD
(at municipal and school levels), a Monitoring and Evaluation electronic tool was prepared within
the MOE, which used the database created by the "Info-technology Unit" until 2004. In 2005,
when educational statistics were processed by the National Institute for Statistics (INE), working
with the previous format became more difficult and it was eventually discontinued.




                                                53

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

    Unofficial Translation of comments provided by Japan International Cooperation
                                            Agency (JICA) - Honduras

JICA was not a "partner" in this Project. However, we were in frequent Communications [with
IDA] on the topic of printing and distribution of natural and social science textbooks. We
observed that the project accomplished that task in a timely and efficient manner. This was
almost the first time that textbooks arrived on time, in February, in Honduras' classrooms.
Textbook coverage was very high and it seems that almost all schools have natural and social
science textbooks. However, we believe that it would have been better if personnel from the
Ministry of Education, school teachers, parents and families were involved in the distribution
process, rather than hiring a national firm to do the distribution. With greater involvement the
distribution process would have been cheaper and more sustainable.22




22Note from ICR Team: Competitively selected firms were hired to distribute science textbooks from warehouses to
the district level. District offices and schools were responsible for getting the books to schools ­with project resources.




                                                            54

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

ESA Consultores.       Evaluación Participativa del Programa Hondureño de Educación
       Comunitaria (PROHECO). August 2004.

Secretaría de Educación de Honduras - Proyecto de Educación Comunitaria. Annual
       Implementation Plans. 2003-2007.

Secretaría de Educación de Honduras - Proyecto de Educación Comunitaria. Cifras de Ejecución
       Financiera por Componente y Sub-componente. November 2007.

Secretaría de Educación de Honduras - Proyecto de Educación Comunitaria. Evaluación de
       Medio Término. February 2005.

Secretaría de Educación de Honduras - Proyecto de Educación Comunitaria. Informe Sondeo de
       Indicadores de Impacto. October - November 2007.

Secretaría de Educación de Honduras - Proyecto de Educación Comunitaria. Reporte del Estado
       del Proyecto para la Misión de Supervisión del Banco Mundial. (12 reports). 2002-2007.

Secretaría de Educación de Honduras - Proyecto de Educación Comunitaria. Informe Final de
       Implementación del Crédito 3497 ­ Aporte del País.. February 2008.

Secretaría de Educación de Honduras and Universidad Francisco Morazán (UPNFM- UMCE).
       Estudio de Impacto: El Rendimiento Académico en las Escuelas del Programa
       Hondureño de Participación Comunitaria (PROHECO). July 2004.

Secretaría de Educación de Honduras. PROHECO Office. Módulo Hacia Una Educación de
       Calidad en la Aplicabilidad de Técnicas Multigrados. June 2007.

The World Bank. Aide Memoires of Supervision Missions (13 documents). 2002-2007.

The World Bank. Development Credit Agreement. Credit 3497-HO. June 2001.

The World Bank.       Implementation Completion Report.     Basic Education Project (IDA-
       2694).Report No.24048. April 2002.

The World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. Honduras Community- Based Education Project.
       Report No. 21851. April 2001.

The World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. Honduras Education Quality, Governance and
       Institutional Strengthening Project. Report: 40514-HN. December 2007.

The World Bank's Independent Evaluation Group. Project Performance Assessment Report.
       Rural Primary Education Management Project (LN 2804) and Basic Education Project
       (CR 2694). Report No. 29331. June 2004.




                                              55

