Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
As. grSS 
Report No. P-4257-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$126 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR A THIRD URBAN PROJECT
March 2, 1987
This doument has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the perfomance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 =         CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                       =         CFAF 320
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES      -
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACA            - Agence de Cooperation et d'Amenagement
BCEAO          - Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BSIE           - Budget Special d'Investissement et d'Equipement
CAA            - Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAISSTAB       - Caisse de Stabilisat'Lon et de Soutien des Prix des
Productions Agricoles
CCCE           - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CdM            - Compte de Mobilisation
CIF I          - Credit Ivoirien pour le Financement de l'Immobilier
CNPS           - Caisse Nationale de Pr6voyance Sociale
CTU            - Compte des Terrains Urbains
DCGTX          - Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux
ENSTP          - Ecole Nationale Superieure des Travaux Publics
EPIC           - Entreprise Publique a Caractare Industriel et Commercial
FSH            - Fonds de Soutien de l'Habitat
MCU            - Ministry of Construction and Urbanism
MR             - Ministry of Budget
MEF            - Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPWCPT         - Former Ministry of Public Works, Construction, Posts, and
Telecommunications
MPWT           - Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
SETU           - Socifte d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains
SIB            - Societe Ivoirienne de Banques
SICOGI         - Socifte Ivoirie.nne de Construction et Gestion Immobiliare
SGBCI          - Socifte G&nerale de Banques de Cote d'Ivoire
SOGEFIHA       - Socifte de Gestion Financiare de l'Habitat
SOTRA          - Socifte des Transports Abidjanais
TEP            - Taux d'Escompte Preferentiel
UMOA           - Union Mon6taire Ouest Africaine
USAID - HG     - United States Agency for International Development -
Housing Guarantee Program
VAT            - Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
Cote d'Ivoire                   : January 1 - December 31
CAA/CdM                         : October 1 - September 30
CAA/CTU                         : October 1 - September 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Cote d'Ivoire.
Financial
Intermediaries:    The Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), through
the Compte de Mobilisation (CAA/CdM), the Compte des
Terrains Urbains (CAA/CTU), and the commercial banks
customarily involved in the housing sector.
Beneficiaries:        Low- and middle-income households.
Amount:               US$126 million.
Terms:                Interest at the standard variable rates plus
standard commitment. Amortization over 20 years
including five years of grace.
Onlending Terms:      Proceeds of the Bank loan for the purpose of the
housing finance and land servicing components will
be onlent on the same terms as the Bank loan, as
follows: (a) US$37.8 million or 30 percent of the
loan amount to the CAA/CdM for financing housing
loans granted by commercial banks and financial
institutions to households at an adjustable rate
(9 percent per annum according to the current BCEAO
interest rate regulations). with a maturity
averaging 15 years; and (b) US$14.1 million or
11 percent of the loan amount to the CAA/CTU to help
establish a revolving fund to finance land
development programs.
Project Description: The proposed project will consist of:
(a)  establishment of a housing finance facility
(CAA/CdM) which will provide long-term social
housing finance (in the past made available
through public sector housing programs), by
refinancing housing loans made by commercial
banks and thus encourage shifting the main
responsibility for housing finance to the
private sector. Over the project period, it is
expected that about 7.000 households would
purchase dwellings through the CAAICdM
facility;
(b) provision of basic infrastructure to
rehabilitate about 750 ha of land for housing
development. Some 150 ha will be developed
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance
of their officiad duie Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoraton.



annually, mostly in Abidjan Nord and in the
Djibi area, providing about 18,500 new plots to
be sold through private real estate developers.
Funds required for land servicing and obtained
from plot sales ill be channelled through the
CAA/CTU;
(c) continuation of transport improvement programs
focusing on rehabilitation and maintenance of
streets and pedestrian facilities in high-
density communities, and selected improvements
to road infrastructure and traffic management
systems throughout Abidjan; and
(d) studies, training, and a pilot program
including the following: preparation of a
Transport Plan for Greater Abidjan to guide
investment over the period 1990/2000;
environmental protection study and topographic
study for Greater Abidjan; study of rural/
urban development issues in C^te d'Ivoire;
training for transport economics; and a pilot
program to stimulate access of the informal
sector to commercial bank credit with
assistance from Non Governmental Organizations
(NGOs).
Project Benefits:     The proposed project is expected to yield
substantial benefits to Cote d'Ivoire. First, by
making a package of financial and technical
assistance available to the urban sector, the
project would facilitate the implementation of the
Government's Structural Adjustment Program with
regard to the housing sector. Second, the funds
provided under the project for the purpose of the
CAAJCdM would make available long-term resources
needed by conmercial banks to finance housing loans.
In addition, the proposed onlending mechanism for
channelling the funds through the CAA/CdM to the
banking system, as a whole, would permit a gradual
expansion in the number of beneficiaries having
access to commercial credit. Third, the funds
provided for the purpose of the Compte des Terrains
Urbains (CAAJCTU) would allow CTU to self-finance
land servicing projects without Treasury subsidy.
Fourth, the transport component would maximize the
use of existing infrastructure through traffic
msnagement measures and maintenance programs which
should significantly reduce transport costs.



- iii -
Project Risks:        The Compte de Mobilisation is designed to chart the
way for future lending to social housing through the
banking system as a whole rather than through a
specialized bank. The relative unfamiliarity of the
Ivorian banking system with financial intermediary
procedures is considered a risk to the project. An
added risk is that loan demand from homeovners may
not materialize as rapidly as expected, partly due
to current economic conditions and partly on account
of the uncertain response of commercial banks.
These risks are mitigated by including technical
assistance to the CAAJCdM, and by motivating
commercial banks to participate in the housing loan
component through a spread of 3 percent, along with
refinancing facilities. The proposed subloan amount
has been established with these risks in m1nd; even
under currently depressed levels, if current trends
continue, CdM refinancing would reach only about
30 percent of the demand for term credit estimated
for the last year of the project period.



- iv
Estimated Project Costs:
Local   Foreiga    Total
-  US$ million--
Housing Loans
(Compte de Mobilisation)           97.8    38.5       136.3
Land Servicing                     21.2    19.6        40.8
Transport Program                  28.7    43.1        71.8
Training. Studies, & Others         2.3      3.5        5.8
Total Base Cost              150.0   104.7       254.7
Physical Contingencies              3.4      4.3        7.7
Price Contingencies                16.4    25.5        41.9
Total Project Cost           169.7   134.5       304.2
Of which Taxes                     28.5      0.0       28.5
Total Project Cost
Net of Taxes                 141.2   134.5       275.7
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign    Total
US$ million-
IBRD                                -      126.0      126.0
Government Funds                   62.2     -          62.2
Private Funds                     106.0     -         106.0
Other (International)               1.5      8.5       10.0
Total                        169.7   134.5       304.2
Note:  Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Estimated Disbursements:
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92
-US$ millionu
Anxual                10.0   18.9   25.2   25.2    34.0   12.7
Cumulative            10.0   28.9   54.1   79.3   113.3  126.0
Economic Rate of Return: Land development program 28.5%; transport
program (without time savings) ranging between
10 and 27% for the subcomponents.
Estimated Project Closing Date:  December 1992
Staff Appraisal Report: 5884-IVC
Maps:  IBRD 19182  Cote d'Ivoire Main Urban Centers and Population
IBRD 19183 Greater Abidjan Area



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR A THIRD URBAN PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire for the equivalent of US$126 million
-o help finance a Third Urban Project. The proposed loan would have a term
of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at the standard
variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        In the Report No. 1147-IVC "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic
Report", circulated in May 1977 and published in 1978 under the title
'Ivory Coast: The Challenge of Success", the Bank presented an in-depth
analysis of the country's economic performance during its first
fifteen years of Independence. In recent months, economic missions visited
the Cote d'Ivoire to review economic developments since the beginning of
the eighties and to examine the medium and long-term policy alternatives
facing the country. The findings of these missions are reflected in what
follows.  1/  Annex I provides basic country data.
3.        With a GNP per capita of US$577 in 1985, the Co^te d'Ivoire ranks
well ahead of its neighbors within the West African Economic Community.
Its population of 10.3 million is growing at a rate of 4.5 percent per
year, of which 3.5 percent natural and 1 percent net immigration. Since
independence in 1960, the country has enjoyed a remarkable degree of
political stability which, combined with favorable resource endowments and
a steady inflow of cheap labor from neighboring Sahelian countries, has
been conducive to rapid economic development. The last Party Congress held
in October 1985 clarified the procedures for an orderly transfer of power,
in which the President of the National Assembly would become the interim
President for a period of up to 60 days, pending the calling into session
of a special Party Congress for the expressed purpose of choosing a
Presidential successor.
Background
4.        During the decade extending from the mid-sixties to the mid-
seventies, the development of the Cote d'Ivoire was characterized by rapid
economic growth and by profound structural changes within a relatively
1/  A full-fledged Economic Report is presently being discussed with the
Government and will be circulated to the Board shortly.



-2-
stable external environment. This growth and associated structural change
Was achieved without major internal or external macroeconomic imbalances.
By contrast, during the second half of the seventies, the C^te d'Ivoire
experienced a rapid succession of external shocks iucluding a coffee and
cocoa boom from 1975 to 1077, a rapid deterioration in the market
conditions for these commodities from 1977 to 1979 and a sharp increase in
import prices in 1979. The net res-alt was a 27 percent deterioration in
the terms of trade between 1977 and 1980.
5.        Following the rapid increase in CAISSTAB revenues resulting from
the boom in coffee and cocoa prices, the Government embarked on an over-
ambitious public investment program which was mainly directed toward large
projects with high unit costs and low rates of economic returns. Between
1975 and 1980, public investment increased 2.5 times in real terms, and its
financing became increasingly dependent on foreign borrowing When CATSST&B
surpluses started to dwindle after 1978. In pAralLel. the econoic
policies followed by the Government progressively weakened the long-.'erm
growth potential of the productive sectors. The rapid expansion of the
money supply led to a rise in domestic inflation with a consequent
deterioration in the purchasing power parity index. Inadequate adjustments
in producer prices for export crops led to an increased discrimination
against the agricultural sector. The Government responded to the
intensified import competition by iuposing quantitative iuport restrictions
in the industrial sector. This policy led to sharp increases in effective
protection and to a growing anti-export bias in the sector, and further
aggravated the discrimination against agriculture in the system of
incentives.
6.        Fueled by the rapid expansion of public investment. GDP grew at a
real average annual rate of 7.6 percent between 1975 and 1980. This
continued expansion of public investment contributed to a sharp increase in
the overall deficit of the public sector. As a result, meditw- and long-
term debt outstanding increased from 17.8 to 35.2 percent of GDP between
1975 and 1980.  The current account deficit went from 8.2 to 17.4 percent
of GDP over the sane Interval and the increase in foreign capital inflovs
to the public sector was not sufficient to offset this deterioration. By
1980, the overall deficit of the balance of payments had reached
7.7 percent of GDP. and the Cote d'Ivoire had exhausted its official
reserves.
Launching the Structural AdJustment Process
7.        Faced with a rapid deterioration of the economic and financial
situation, the Government launched a structural adjustment program at the
end of 1981 with the objectives of stabilizing the economy, improving
macroeconomic management and laying the foundation for a resumption of
growth in the medium to long term. This program was supported by two
Structural Adjustment Loans from the Bank in 1981 and 1983, and an EPF from
the Fund in 1981.



-3-
8.        The Government's structural adjustment program was based on two
major components. namely, (i) a series of immediate policy actions with the
objective of correcting in the shorter term the most obvious deficiencies
in monetary and fiscal policy and in the system of economic incentives; and
(ii) an initial reassessment of the development strategy with the objective
of implementing far-reaching policy reforms for restoring self-sustained
growth over the longer term.
9.        Under the first component, the Government moved forcefully to
apply a set of stabilization measures, including: (i) a tightening of
domestic credit to the public and parapublic sectors; (ii) an interest rate
policy designed to encourage domestic resource mobilization and to lmit
transfers abroad; (iii) a sharp reduction in public current and capital
expenditures in real terms; (iv) a reform of public investment programming;
(v) a reform of the parapublic sector to reduce its burden on public
finances and to improve its efficiency; and (vi) producer price increases
for cash and food crops.
10.       Concurrently, as part of the second component, the Government
proceeded to: (i) improve the Institutional efficiency of macroeconomic
management; (ii) rationalize the public investment program; (1ii) improve
the external debt management system; (iv) design and introduce the first
stage of a comprehensive reform of the system of industrial incentives
aimed at reducing protection, increasing efficiency and eliminating the
anti-export bias in the sector; and Cv) initiate a process leading to a
comprehensive reform of the agricultural incentive system, including
producer prices, input subsidies, and the external trade regime.
Recent Economic Performance: 1981-85
11.      Judging by its performance between 1981 and 1985, the Cote
d'Ivoire economy has shown a good response to the structural adjustment
program. Stabilization measures were strictly pursued even though
slippages did occur in 1982 and 1983 as a result of factors beyond the
control of Government. These included an increase in real rates of
interest in international financial markets, lower than forecast domestic
oil output, a decline in external terms of trade in 1981 and 1982, and a
severe drought in 1983. Starting in 1984, the Government redoubled its
adjustment efforts with impressive results in the fiscal and balance of
payments areas. However, the structural adjustment process so far has not
achieved the change in the relative prices of tradeable and non-tradeable
goods required to reallocate resources towards production for exports. 2/
Also, although the Government implemented a series of producer price
increases for major crops, progress in the implementation of the structural
adjustment program in agriculture has been slower than expected.
2/  Taking 1980 as a base, the index of the relative price of tradeable
and non-tradeable goods was estimated to be 97.5 in 1984.



-4-
12.       Ai,er registering a slightly positive growth in real GDP of
1.2 percent in 1981, the Cote d'Ivoire economy suffered three successive
years of negative growth from 1982 to 1984. The poor performance in
1982-84 was the result of a confluence of factors, namely the series of
negative exogenous shocks mentioned earlier and the imposition of austerity
measures associated with the structural adjustment program. In 1985,
however, there was a strong resumption of GDP growth (4.9 percent) and the
latest estimates for 1986 show a continuation of this momentum with a GDP
growth in the order of 3.3 percent.
13.       The drastic measures taken by Government since 1981 to reduce
public expenditures, together with a sharp increase in CAISSTAB revenues,
led to a major improvement of the public finance situation over the 1980-
1985 period. Government consumption expenditures were cut by 13.8 percent
in real terms between 1980 and 1985, as a result of the implementation of a
wide range of cost-reducing measures. The adjustment was even more drastic
with respect to the Government's investment program, which was reduced by
81.9 percent in real terms over the same interval. As a result, the
Government deficit, which reached 13.1 percent of GDP in 1981, declined
steadily to 0.2 percent of GDP in 1984, and turned into a surplus estisated
at 0.2 percent in 1985.
14.       Between 1980 and 1985, the Government succeeded in stabilizing
the loss-to-GDP ratio of the parapublic sector at less than 1 percent. At
the same time, the ratio of Government transfers to public enterprises with
respect to GDP. after increasing from 2.5 percent in 1980 to 8.4 percent in
1984, declined to 6.9 percent in 1985. The financing requirements of the
parapublic sector decreased from 11.6 percent of GDP in 1982 to 3.7 percent
in 1985. This remarkable improvement was the direct result of the
structural adjustment measures taken by Government, including a more
flexible tariff policy, a strengthening of controls on foreign borrowing by
public enterprises, and the strengthening of operational efficiency of key
enterprises.
15.       Between 1980 and 1985, the goods and services balance improved
dramatically, from a deficit of 5.4 percent of GDP to a surplus of
13.9 percent. This evolution was essentially the result of the sharp
reduction in imports due to the expenditure-reducing effects of the
stabilization program. Between 1980 and 1985, imports of goods and
services declined by a cumulative 44.1 percent in current dollar terms,
while exports of goods and services increased by 1.7 percent per year in
real terms, mainly as a result of the growth in cocoa output.
16.       Until 1983, the improvement in the goods and services balance  '>,
not translate into a corresponding improvement of the current balance,
whose deficit remained at about 13 percent of GDP, mainly due to the
increase in interest payments on external public debt. Net capital inflows
to the public sector declined abruptly in 1983, reflecting increased
difficulties experienced by the Government in mobilizing fresh money from
private financing sources. As a result, the overall balance of payments
deficit widened considerably. Since 1983, the current balance situation



-5-
has shown a dramatic improvement, going from a deficit of 13.3 percent of
GDP to a surplus of 1.0 percent in 1985. The increase in net capital
inflows to the public sector made possible by the rescheduling of external
debt (and Bank SALs) accentuated this positive tendency, and the overall
balance showed a surplus of 4.4 percent of GDP in 1985.
17.       By the end of 1983, arrears on external debt payments amounted to
US$150 million, and the Government requested the rescheduling of the
country's medium and long-term debt obligations falling due in the 13-month
period beginning December 1, 1983, to official and private creditors. At
the Paris Club meeting in May 1984, official creditors agreed to refinance
C^ote d'Ivoire's commercial credits guaranteed or insured by participating
Governments and loans from these Governments with an original maturity of
more than one year and contracted before July 1, 1983. Moreover, in
July 1984, an agreement in principle was reached between the Ivorian
authorities and a steering committee representing commercial banks to
reschedule the principal component of CSte d'Ivoire's debt falling due in
the 25-month period from December 1984, provided for a rescheduling of
100 percent of principal payments falling due in this period. Tranche B
covering January-December 1985, provided for a rescheduling of 90 percent
of principal falling due in calendar year 1985, and became effective in
March 1985.
18.       The total debt relief obtained for 1985 amounted to
CEAF 200 billion of which commercial banks provided CFAF 99 billion. The
disbursement of fresh money (CFAF 49.1 billion) agreed upon with the
commercial banks in the context of the 1984-85 rescheduling was completed
in April 1985. In June 1985, official creditor members of the Paris Club
agreed to reschedule or refinance 100 percent of principal and 50 percent
of interest falling due in 1985 on insured credits and official loans with
original maturities of more than one year and contracted prior to
July 1, 1983. In addition, negotiations with external creditors not
represented by the Paris and London Club, who extended supplier's credits
to Cote d'Ivoire and are represented in the sc-called Abidjan Club, were
also completed. CSte d'Ivoire negotiated in 1986 a multi-year rescheduling
of its debt coming due in the period 1986-89. An agreement was reached with
the London and Paris Clubs on terms and conditions which constitute a
marked improvement over those obtained in the context of the 1984-85
rescheduling i.e., a degressive serial MYRA (Multi-Year Rescheduling
Arrangement) based on restructuring of 80 percent of the principal due in
1986, 70 percent in 1987 and 60 percent in 1988 for both Clubs and
50 percent in 1989 for the London Club; a nine-year maturity including
three years of grace for each rescheduled tranche; and an interest rate
equal to the libor in the case of Paris Club and a spread of 1-5/8 over in
the case of the London Club.
Medium-Term Prospects: 1986-90
19.       After four years of austerity under the first phase of the
structural adjustment program, the Government is determined to achieve a
successful transition to the growth-oriented phase of the program, which



-6-
vill be based on the following orientations: (i) an export-oriented growth
strategy along the lines of comparative advantage based on a progressive
opening up of the economy to the pressures of market forces; (ii) a
retrenchment of the public sector towards the types of activities for which
it is best suited (supportive role to production and exports) in order to
allow the private sector to play its leading role in directly productive
activities; and (iii) the design of a strategy to alleviate the debt burden
over the medium term, thereby freeing resources for a return to a medium
term growth path which will restore international creditworthiness and
raise per capita incomes.
20.       The Bank's view of the medium-term prospects for Cote d'Ivoire is
based on a feas'ble scenario assuming the intensification of the
Government's structural adjustment program supported by a third SAL in the
amount of US$250 million and a new stand-by arrangement of SDR 100 million
covering the two-year period ending in June 1988.
21.       The scenario indicates that continuation of tight monetary and
fiscal policies, coupled with a broadening of incentive reforms in the
productive sectors and a solution to the debt overhang, are essential to
steer the economy towards a sustainable growth path over the medium to long
term. Under this scenario, GDP is projected to grow by 2.1 percent per
annum on average between 1986 and 1990, representing a decline of about
2.0 percent per year in GDP per capita. The achievement of this growth
rate will essentially depend on the growth of the productive sectors,
namely agriculture and manufacturing. This in turn will depend on the
Government's determination to constrain the growth of the public sector In
order to free domestic resources for the financing of private investment.
This scenario implies that the private sector will progressively become the
engine of growth as public sector retrenchment becomes a reality.
22.       The projections lead to a stabilization of the public finance
situation over the medium term. This outcome is made possible by:
i) multi-year rescheduling of external public debt in the context of the
London and Paris Clubs 3/; (ii) the continued restraint in current and
capital expenditures; (iii) the reduction of Government transfers to public
enterprises; and (iv) the increase in fiscal receipts induced by the
expansion of GDP and new tax measures. Also, the projections lead to a
stabilization of the balance of payments situation over the 1986-90 Plan
horizon. This result depends essentially on the response of the economy to
the incentive reforms applied in the productive sectors, and in particular
on an expansion of manufactured exports. The external debt profile
obtained under the scenario shows a decline in the debt service ratio
during the critical 1986-89 period, after MYRA rescheduling.
3/ The Government has negotiated rescheduling arrangements through the
London and Paris Clubs in the amounts of US$332 mlIlion in 1986, 30 in
1987, 246 in 1988, and 125 in 1989 (see para 18).



-7-
23.       The recent sharp decline of international prices of coffee and
cocoa and the appreciation of the CFA franc vis-a-vis the dollar have put
pressure to bear on the public finance and balance of payments situation
reinforcing the need for a prudent macroeconomic policy and an
intensification of the structural adjustment process. Should this
unfavorable situation persist, however, Cote d'Ivoire would find it
difficult to sustain a structural adjustment without supplementary support
from the international financial community.
PART 11 - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Co^te d'Ivoire
started, lending has expanded rapidly and now includes 56 operations
totalling about US$1,687 million, including US$14 million from the Third
Window, and an IDA credit of US$7.5 million. Of these, 19 have been for
agriculture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, forestry, oil palm and
coconut development, and rural development in the North-East Savannah and
Center-West regions. There were siX road projects and two highway sector
projects. The remaining loans were for education, telecommunications, the
Abidjan sewerage and drainage system, water supply, urban development,
petroleum exploration and development, power distribution, tourism
development, small- and medium-scale enterprises, a regional cement
project, a regional railway project, structural adjustment and related
technical assistance, an industrial finance and development and a health
and demographic project. IFC has supported textile, fertilizers, flour
milling, development banking and agricultural plantation operations in the
country. In general, implementation of Bank projects has been satisfactory
and has improved substantially over the past five years. Tbe disbursement
ratio (total disbursements of a fiscal year divided by undisbursed signed
commitments as of the beginning of the fiscal year) has increased over the
period 1982-85 from 15.4 percent to 24.5 percent (excluding SALs), which
compares to an average evolution over the same period from 23.9 percent to
24 percent Bank-wide and from 20.7 percent to 19.1 percent (excluding SALs)
for West Africa.
25.       Until the early eighties, when the Ivorian economy experienced a
rapid deterioration, Bank lending was project-oriented with the emphasis on
agricultural diversification, infrastructural development and education.
The change in the country's economic situation led to a substantial shift
in the direction of Bank lending in order to respond to the Government's
request for financial support of its stabilization program that it
initiated in 1981 in order to restore CSte d'Ivoire's economic performance.
Accordingly, during the past five years, Bank lending has focussed on
structural adjustment of the economy, including improvement of public
finance, broad-based institution building and increased exposure to market
forces, while continuing direct support to the productive sectors
(agriculture, industry, and energy). Building on this stabilization
effort, the Government is now moving the economy towards a growth phase



-8-
based on a strategy of exported development. A Third Structural Adjustment
Loan which was signed on September 3, 1986 supports this phase.
26.       In conjunction with the First Structural Adjustment Loan, a
Technical Assistance Loan (FY82) was made to provide long- and short-term
assistance in the improver:t;ft of macroeconomic and public sector management
and to carry out the necessary studies as the structural adjustment program
evolved (especially with regard to industrial and agricultural incentives
reform, management and financial rehabilitation of public enterprises, and
housing finance). In addition, the loan financed studies to prepare
several projects in the agricultural (research, marketing) and
infrastructure sectors (water supply). The utilization of the remaining
portion of the loan is being directed to selective provision of technical
assistance in areas of long-term benefit, and an Economic Management
Project is being considered to further strengthen institutional
capabilities in the design and implementation of policy reforms.
27.       In agriculture, high prlority has been given to sector work and
policy dialogue on a major reform of the incentive system (improved
producer prices, reduction of subsidies, promotion of exports through
rationalizing external commercial policy) and increased emphasis on
developing smallholder production. Bank lending is contributing to the
expansion of those subsectors with clear comparative advantages based on
low domestic resource cost and export diversification (e.g., rubber, oil
palm, and coconut), so as to restore economic growth. In addition,
emphasis is being placed on strengthening agricultural services (extension,
research and input supply) to enable the sector to achieve its potential in
terms of agricultural yields of both --ash and food crops. As a result of
the various studies implemented under the Technical Assistance Project, the
Bank plans to help finance a credit and food crop marketing project (FY88)
and an agricultural research project (FY89).  In forestry, the Bank will
continue to support Government efforts to arrest the rapid degradation of
C8te d'Ivoire's forest resources, the country's third foreign exchange
earner and the principal source of cooking fuel for the majority of the
population. In a Second Forestry Project (FY86), the Bank provided further
support to the Government's reforestation program and to the strengthening
of the institutional capability to define and implement a coherent
long-term forestry policy.  A third Forestry Project is planned for FY90.
28.       With the policy reforms under the structural adjustment process
(tariff reform, introduction of an export compensatory scheme,
institutional rehabilitation), the basis has been laid for a restructuring
of the industrial sector to help it regain its pre-1980 dynamism. In FY86,
the Bank provided financing for an Industrial Finance and Development
project to help adjust industrial enterprises to the eftects resulting from
a more liberal commercial policy. In the next few years, the Bank will
continue to assist the Government in creating an environment for efficient
resource mobilization and resource allocation by the banking system and
further promotion of privatization.



29.       Given its hydrocarbon and hydroelectric resources, the Cote
d'Ivoire has the potential to be self-sufficient in energy. However,
during the last few years the institutions responsible for energy supply
experienced substantial financial difficulties and acute power shortages
resulting from recent droughts on the one hand, and over-investments on the
other (refinery).  This contributed to a large extent to the Government's
financial problems being addressed under the structural adjustment program.
Through this program and an energy sector loan (FY89) currently being
prepared, the Bank is lending support to the restoration of the financial
viability of the implementing institutions, and more generally, to the
rationalization of pricing policies (tariff reform) for the domestic
market.
30.       The Bank has been closely associated with the development of Cote
d'Ivoire's infrastructure and will continue to contribute to government
objectives of further strengthening institutional capability and financial
management and, where feasible, promote privatization. In transports a
Second Highway Sector Loan was approved in FY85, cofinanced by commercial
banks in a first "B-loan" made in the African Region. The project aimed at
upgrading the country's road network, restoring road maintenance capacity
and fostering productivity improvements in the private road transport
industry. A Transport Sector Project is scheduled for FY89 to support
further policy adjustments in port management, the transportation industry,
railway and aviation, and to improve port facilities, road infrastructure,
and railway operations. In the urban subsector, especially housing, the
Bank will support government efforts to reduce public spending on housing
finance (i) by shifting this responsibility to the commercial banking
system; and (ii) by creating a revolving fund for sites and services to be
sold by private real estate companies. In addition, the Bank will continue
to help finance maintenance and upgrading of the transport system in
Abidjan, in view of the critical importance of this city for the economy,
and contribute to institution building. A Municipal Development Project
(FY89) is being prepared as a first stage to improve the institutional
capacity of local government in maintaining existing facilities and
infrastructure, and to mobilize fiscal resources. Following a
reorganization study of the water supply and sanitation sector initiated in
1984, a water supply and sanitation sector adjustment loan (FY88) would
further improve sector efficiency and financial discipline by expanding
private management of part of the water supply facilities with
responsibilities currently held by the public sector. An Abidjan
Environmental Protection Project (FY88) would complete a program to improve
sanitary provisions in Abidjan and to restore the city's lagoon waters
through the construction of an ocean outfall. A Rural Water Supply Project
(FY89) would rehabilitate rural water points and shift responsibility for
maintenance to the village level. Finally, the Second Telecommunications
Project approved in FY86 supports Government efforts to rehabilitate the
existing network and to strengthen the managerial, planning and
administrative capacity of the National Office of Telecommunications.
31.       In the social sectors, primary importance will be given to
improving education, to helping C6te d'Ivoire meet the requirements to



- 10 -
improve health care and to formulate an adequate approach to address the
issue of its fast-growing population. In education, the objectives will be
to reduce the high cost and improve the efficiency of the education system.
Efforts will be continued - both in the structural adjustment program and
in future project lending - to reduce the heavy burden of recurrent
expenditure for education on the Government's budget. A fourth Education
Project, which would pursue the above objectives, is planned for FY88. In
health and population, a Health and Demographic Project which was approved
by the Board in FY86 supports Government efforts to expand and improve the
quality of nurse training and to strengthen institutional and financial
management in the health sector. A second project may be considered by the
end of the decade.
PART III - THE URBAN SETTING
Urban Development Trends
32.       The Government, with IMF and Bank support, adopted in 1983/84 a
stringent financial recovery and stabilization program, aired at reducing
the imbalances in public sector finances and external accounts and among
others supporting reforms in the management of public finance in housing.
33.       Improved management of urban growth, in Abidjan in particular, is
important to support the program of reforms, since urban areas account for
a major share of GDP; in 1983, about 63 percent of the GDP was urban-based,
Abidjan itself accounting for 47 percent of the GDP (value added). Urban
industry is largely agro-related and the main regions, in terms of
agricultural production, are the Center and South, where the majority of
urban population growth has taken place and is expected in the future.
Economic activities located in Abidjan will continue to dominate the
Ivorian economy.
34.       Rapid urban growth has been one of the most visible consequences
of the country's economic development, but is expected to slow down through
the end of the decade to a rate estimated at 6.2 percent a year. In 1985,
the national population was estimated to be 9.7 million (growth rate
3.5 percent per annun), of which 4.2 million or 43 percent was urban.
About 1.7 million inhabitants, or 40 percent of the total urban population,
are concentrated in Greater Abidjan. Projecting current trends, taking
into account the country's present economic slowdown, the national
population would reach 11.5 million in 1990, of which almost 50 percent or
5.7 million would be urban. The population of Abidjan would reach about
2.3 million or about the same share of total urban population as in 1985.
35.       Between 1955 and 1980, Abidjan grew at 11.5 percent per annum.
During this period, Government invested heavily in the provision of
housing, financing the construction of some 72,000 highly subsidized
housing units (about 25 percent of the Abidjan housing stock) through two
public aJmncies, Societe Ivoirienne de Construction et Gestion Imobiliere



- 11 -
(SICOGI) and Societe de Gestion Financiere de l"habitat (SOGEFIBA). CSte
d'lvoire also embarked on costly programs of land development, sewerage,
and public transportation. Because of excessively high standards and high
costs, these investments not only excluded the bulk of the low-income
population in need of shelter, but also contributed to heavy recurrent
public sector deficits which reached alarming proportions by the late
seventies and early eighties. The Ten-Year Development Study (covering the
period 1980-90). financed under the First Urban Project (Loans 1347/1348T
of December 1976), was the first attempt to more efficiently plan for and
allocate urban investments for the Greater Abidjan area (including Dabou,
Anyama, Bingerville, and Grand Bassam). The Strategy Study for secondary
cities, financed under the Second Urban Project (Loan 2048-IVC of
August 1981), attempted to extend this approach nationwide. Following
actions recommended in these two Bank-financed studies, Government decided
to shift the burden of housing financing to the private sector and to make
its intervention more efficient in providing and enabling a framevork in
which the private sector can improve its performance.
The Housing Sector
36.       Two housing corporations, SOGEFIHA and SICOGI, concentrated on
financing and the construction of low- and middle-income housing subsidized
by the Treasury. In addition, a land development agency: Societe
d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains (SETU) serviced and sold plots on account
of the state, and a public housing fund: Fonds de Soutien de l'Habitat
(FSH) provided financing with funds obtained mostly through a payroll tax.
There are also four major commercial banks, two development banks, and one
deferred credit corporation involved in housing finance. Revitalization of
the housing market and development of better financing and refinancing
mechanisms in order to give new strata of the population access to credit
are considered as priorities in the Government's program of reforms.
37.       SOGEFIHA was created in 1963 as a state-owned company and turned
into a public corporation (EPIC), under the control of the Ministry of
Construction and Urbanism. Having built 36,037 units by 1984, SOGEFIHA
managed 25,186 units in Abidjan and 2,602 in the rest of the country;
construction of new units was stopped in 1979. At the end of 1985,
SOGEFIHA possessed total assets amounting to CFAF 64.5 billion, and had
accumu3ated a Government guaranteed term debt of CFAF 72.0 billion Which it
will take until 1997 to be reimbursed. Moreover, poor control of
construction costs and financial management left SOGEFIHA with a large
shortfall in its cashflow.  The Government, which financed these cash
shortfalls through annual subsidies, decided to liquidate SOGEFIHA by
selling off its housing units, on the basis of a plan approved by the Bank
in accordance with requirements under the Second Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL II, Loan 2332 of June 1983). Progress with the implementation of this
liquidation plan is satisfactory. On January 1987, close to 11,000 (of a
total of 17,000) units were sold to the private sector.
38.       SICOGI, a semi-public company under the control of the Ministry
of Construction and Urbanism, was created in 1965 from the merger of two



- 12 -
earlier agencies, and now has a staff of 1,215. While Government is the
majority shareholder (53.64 percent), the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE), the Caisse des Depots (France) and various Ivorian
institutions, hold the rest of the capital. SICOGI has generally been
managed more efficiently than SOGEFIHA. At the end of 1982, SICOGI had
built 35,752 units, of which 31,372 are still under SICOGI's management,
mostly rental units in Abidjan. With concessional CCCE money
(3-1/2 percent per annum, 20 years), SICOGI was able to maintain good
control over its operations until 1979, despite a freeze in unit rent
increases. However, since 1979, SICOGI has been facing difficulties with
the phasing out of external financing, the cancellation of Government
leases, and Government pressure to transform rental programs into
lease-purchase at terms below market value. SICOGI is now seeking to
diversify the income mlr of its operations by increasingly emphasizing
lease-purchase for high-income units.
39.       Created in 1971 as a state-owned company with an equity of
CFAF 200 million, SETU was turned into an EPIC under the control of the
Ministry of Construction and Urbanism (MCU) and now has a staff of
154 persons. SETU serviced about 2,034 ha of land in Abidjan, of which
575 ha for individual plots (5,705), 736 ha for housing companies (SICOGI,
SOGEFIHA), 24 ha for industrial or commercial purposes, and 242 ha for
community facilities.  The balance (457 ha) includes street and other
networks. The total amount invested in land development, from 1973 to
1983, was about CFAF 25 billion. SETU was also the executing agency of the
upgrading component for the First Urban Project, completed satisfactorily
in November 1983, at a final cost of CFAF 7.7 billion, and is the executing
agency for the two pilot operations in secondary cities (Daloa and Korhogo)
financed by the Second Urban Project, and of a USAID program which
comprises urban works in 13 secondary centers. These works, which are near
completion, are expected to have a value of about CFAF 9.1 billion.
Despite relatively good technical performance, SETU has experienced two
major interrelated difficulties: (a) inadequate financial management
resulting in short-term debts to banks and contractors of CFAF 11.8 billion
at the end of 1985, unpaid taxes to the Treasury and debts to the National
Pension Fund (CNPS); and (b) inadequate commercial and recovery policies
leading to arrears estimated at CFAF 3.6 billion at the end of 1985.
Although a program of reforms was identified and partly implemented in
1986, the Government after having studied ways to financially restructure
SETU, decided to progressively liquidate the agency. Its land servicing
function would be replaced by the opening of a Compte des Terrains Urbains
(CTU) at CAA, whose resources would consist of external borrowings and
revenues from plot sales to finance land development. Technical studies.
procurement, and supervision of works would be done by the Direction et
Controle des Grands Travaux (DCGTX), and the marketing and sales of
serviced plots by private real estate agencies.
40.       Although legally created in June 1984, FSH was established de
facto in 1969, funded by a tax levied on all payrolls which ensures
steadily growing resources. Tax revenues rose from CFAF 1.3 billion in
1969 to CFAF 5 billion in 1975, and to about CFAF 12 billion in 1984. Most



- 13 -
of these funds have been disbursed for infrastructure development and
housing construction grants to SOGEFIHA and SICOGI. Since 1976, a major
share of FSH resources (CFAF 26.4 billion or 82 percent) has been spent to
pay part of SOGEFI}A's debt service. FSH, as defined in the 1984 Decree,
has the objective of financing social and low-cost housing programs through
reduction in interest rates, refinancing of housing loans, participation in
construction of infrastructure and land compensation, subsidizing specific
housing programs, granting of working capital and cash for enterprises or
companies which undertake social programs, and equity participation in such
enterprises. The FSH is managed by a committee chaired by the Minister of
Economy and Finance. Total Government funds earmarked for the housing
sector during the 1981-84 period amounted to CFAF 35 billion, of which
32 billion were funded through FSH. Since much of this was spent to pay
for part of SOGEFIHA's debt service, in fact only CFAF 2.5 billion were
allocated to new housing construction programs, implemented by SICOGI. As
a result, the actual share of public finances in housing construction has
been negligible during the last five years, despite the fact that the
1981-84 National Plan had forecast the start-up of 4,000 new units with FSH
participation per year, which corresponds to about one-third of the
national demand. It is the intention of the Government to progressively
reduce the role of the FSH by shifting finance for housing from the public
to the private sector.
41.       The Banking Sector.  Thus far, participation in housing finance
by the four major commercial banks (mostly affiliates of large
international banking companies) and the two development banks (one of
which is a former housing parastatal bank created in 1976 and privatized in
1979), has been limited and sharply decreased during the last few years.
Due to the decline in economic activity in C6te d'Ivoire and the reluctance
of the banks to provide long-term commercial finance for housing, the share
of medium- and long-term credit for housing in the banks' portfolio
decreased from CFAF 15.6 billion or 1.75 percent of their total credit
outstanding in 1981 to CFAF 6.8 billion or 0.8 percent in 1985.  In
June 1984, total credit outstanding for housing, with rediscount
facilities, amounted to CFAF 8.2 billion, of which less than half could be
related to the social sector (construction and plot costing less than
CFAF 15 million). This last estimate suggests that commercial banks'
involvement in low-cost housing was on the order of 600 units per year. To
this must be added the activity of the Credit Ivoirien pour le Financement
de 1'T-nobilier (CIFIM). This deferred credit corporation has made about
1,000 loans amounting to CFAF 11 billion since its establishment in 1978,
or 180 loans per year.
42.       Existing information on the structure of income distribution and
the decline in household incomes since 1978 underlines the urgency of a
far-reaching reorientation of the housing sector and its financing to
promote homeownership among the lower income population. Based on
information provided by household surveys, dating from 1983 and 1985, two
significant features of Abidjan's housing and population patterns affect
housing demand: (a) nearly 80 percent of all residents are renters or
leasers; and (b) non-Ivoriarns constitute about 50 percent of Abidjan's



- 14 -
population, with most of them falling below the median income level
(CFAF 108,500 per month). While rental income from luxury and higher
quality housing has declined by about 30 percent since 1983, due to
economic recession, lower salaries and the departure of foreign
technicians, the demand for housing within a price ranging from
CFAF 3 to 15 million, has remaiuned stable.
43.       As part of SAL II, the Government redefined its housing policy
objectives to: (a) reduce public expenditures and subsidies; (b) improve
the effectiveness of Government's intervention in the sector; and
(c) increase the mobilization of private savings and the role of the
private sector in the formal housing market. One of the main Government
intentions was to create a refinancing facility for housing finance to
shift the responsibilities for housing finance from the public to the
private sector (i.e., a major deviation from the former policy which
supported housing finance through SOGEFIHA, para 37) and remove a key
constraint to the availability of long-term credit for private sector
housing finance. External and domestic resources (private and
institutional savings) would be mobilized, and eligible commercial banks
would be allowed to refinance housing loans for up to 20 years instead of
10 years under the existing Central Bank regulations. The account would
carry the refinanced loans during the first years and, thereafter, the
commercial banks would rediscount them at the Central Bank whose
regulations permit rediscounting of loans with a maximum of ten years
maturity only. (To amend Central Bank regulations in order to lengthen the
maturity period from, for example, 10 to 15 years was not considered
feasible by the Government because this would require a general agreement
with the UMOA monetary zone.) To stimulate the private savings, the
account would also carry loans issued by deferred credit corporations.
These policies have now been adopted and made part of the project.
Urban Transport
44.       The Government's investments in Abidjan's urban transport
infrastructure have been substantial over the last few years. Over the
L976-85 period, with Bank support, a number of major projects were
implemented, including the East-West Highway, the Route du Banco, and
improvements to critical intersections.
45.       As a result, the overall transport situation in Abidjan is
characterized by a well-developed, basic road infrastructure which is
generally in very good condition, and a relatively efficient public
transport system which covers a wide area of the city. Traffic congestion
is limited to short periods of the day at a few critical intersections.
However, access to low-income areas off the Central Business District
(Plateau) is still a major problem, and little attempt has been made to
provide satisfactory access for public transport or public cleansing
vehicles. The road networks in these areas are unstructured and unpaved.
The road accident situation also continues to give rise to concern.



- 15 -
46.       Abidjan's growth in terms of population and geographic expansion
has continued at a slower pace in recent years, among others as a result of
the economic and financial crisis experienced by Cote d'Ivoire over the
1980-84 period. Available statistics show that urban traffic reached a
peak in 1980 and has been decreasing by an average annual rate of about
4 percent through 1984. The number of new vehicles registered each year in
C^te d'Ivoire decreased by 54 percent over the period 1980-84. The
decrease was most significant in the commercial vehicle category. The same
trend is evident from the evolution of the operations of SOTRA (Societe des
Transports Abidjanais), the parastatal bus company providing about
75 percent or 800,000 daily trips, of all public passenger transport
movements in Abidjan. In 1984, SOTRA transported close to 7 percent less
passengers than in 1981, when its operations peaked both in terms of the
size of the bus fleet, total passengers transported, and bus kilometers
produced. More recent data suggest that the decline in the number of
passengers has halted and the number of passengers transported has
stabilized. On the financial side, SOTRA, which concluded a performance
contract with the Government based on the medium-term financial strategy
study financed under the Second Urban Project, has drastically improved its
performance, resulting in stabilizing the annual Government subsidy to
about CFAF 8 billion in current francs (as compared to CFAF 12 billion in
the past).
47.       The near future, therefore, does not call for major new
investments to enhance Abidjan's primary transport capacity. Priority
should be given to the appropriate grid, rehabilitation, and maintenance of
the existing transport system, ensuring and improving the efficiency of
existing public transport and traffic management schemes, and selected
improvements to the road network to serve the needs of the growing
settlement areas, particularly in the suburbs. At the same time, planning
studies should be initiated for the period beyond 1990, when further
expansion of the transport system is likely to be warranted if the forecast
resumption of moderate economic growth materializes and the city continues
to expand.
Experience with Bank Lending
48.       Government's policy in the urban sector during the past decade
has been to reduce regional disparities in economic development by
improving urban infrastructure and services, and to promote the efficient
use of existing ones. Specifically, Bank Group lending has supported these
objectives through the First and Second Sewerage and Drainage Projects, the
First and Second Water Supply Projects, the First and the Second Small
Scale Enterprises Projects, an Industrial Finance and Development Project,
and the First and the Second Tourism Projects.
49.       The First Urban Project (Loan 1347/1348T-IVC, US$44 million) was
approved in 1976 and closed in November 1983. A PPAR, dated
March 24, 1986, based upon a PCR dated June 26, 1984, noted that this
project successfully introduced lower-cost, lower-standard solutions to
public transportation and infrastructure bottlenecks and to upgrading



- 16 -
low-income neighborhoods in Abidjan. The project experienced some initial
delays due to slow completion of designs and decision making with regard to
urban policies and institutions requiring several changes in the scope of
the project. The experience drawn from the project contributed to the
policy reforms instituted under SAL II. The Second Urban Project
(Loan 2048-IVC, US$51 million), which was approved in 1981, focused chiefly
on improving AbidJan public transportation and traffic management and is
progressing satisfactorily.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
50.       Given the importance of the country's urban areas in the economic
recovery program, and the effective reforms in transport and upgrading
policy introduced under the First and Second Urban Projects and thereafter
in housing under SAL II (see para 42), the Government has requested further
Bank assistance to consolidate these gains by providing the necessary
resources to support the continued implementation of these policy reforms.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Preparation
51.       The housing finance and land serv'iing components were identified
by the former MPWCPT, and the transport component is a continuation of
previous Bank-financed operations.  The project was prepared by several
teams of experts financed under the Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 2059-IVC of 1982). The report concerning the creation of a financial
intermediary (Compte de Mobilisation) was prepared by the Agence de
Cooperation et d'Amenagement (ACA) of France in January 1984 and revised by
IDET-CEGOS (France). Preliminary operating procedures for the Compte de
Mobilisation have been prepared by the former MPWCPT and the Ministry of
Finance. A report on the rehabilitation of SETU was prepared by SCET
International (France) in December 1983 and revised in 1985 by OTUI
(France). The transport component was prepared by the former MPWCPT and by
DCGTX. The technical studies, cost estimates and financial-economic
analysis were completed in January 1986. The final preparation report
dated January 1986 was prepared under the responsibility of the DCGTX,
which subsequently (in May and September 1986) prepared supplemental
financial simulations and operating procedures for the Compte des Terrains
Urbains and for the Compte de Mobilisation.
52.       Appraisal took place in June 1985.  Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C., on January 21, 1987. The Ivorian delegation was led by
Mr. A. Cesareo, General Manager of DCGTX. The Staff Appraisal Report
(5884-IVC, dated March 2, 1987), entitled Third Urban Project, is being
circulated separately. Annex III contains a supplementary data sheet.
Maps showing the project areas are attached.



- 17 -
Project Description
53.       The proposed project will comprise:
(a) a housing finance component: establishment of a refinancing
facility, the Compte de Mobilisation (CdM), at the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA). The main purpose of this
component will be to enable the commercial banks to lengthen the
term of social housing loans beyond the period during which they
are rediscountable by the Central Bank (ten years), by
authorizing them to refinance such loans with the CAA/CdM on
similar terms to reach a maturity of up to 20 years. To achieve
these goals, the CAA/CdM will be provided with long-term
resources (including the Bank loan) and with limited funding from
the Capital Expenditure Budget (BSIE). Over the project period,
about 7,000 families are expected to purchase dwellings costing
on average about US$20,000 per unit (1986 price) through the
banking system with refinancing by the Compte de Mobilisation;
(b) a land servicing component: servicing of 750 ha for housing
development. During the project, about 150 ha will be developed
annually, mostly in Abidjan Nord and the Banco area, providing
about 18,500 new plots costing on average US$2,000 per unit (1986
price). Provided the dwelling is the beneficiary's principal
residence and falls within the social housing category (para 56),
beneficiaries will be able to finance both land and construction
with the aid of the CAA/CdM through the banking system;
(c) an urban transport component: continuation of transport
improvement programs focusing mainly on rehabilitation and
maintenance of streets and pedestrian facilities in high-density
areas and traffic management systems (the core program), and
selected improvements to road infrastructure (time slice of the
1987-91 investment program) in Abidjan; and
(d) studies, training, and a pilot program:  (i) preparation of a
transport plan for Greater Abidjan to guide investments over the
period 1990/2000; (ii) environmental protection study for Greater
Abidjan in preparation of a third and final phase of an ongoing
program for improving sanitation in Abidjan, financed by the
Bank; (iii) study of rural/urban development issues in C6te
d'Ivoire to develop new information and insights that will help
facilitate the formulation and implementation of better
urban/rural strategies and policies; (iv) transport economic
training at the National School of Public Works (ENSTP); and
(v) pilot program with assistance from non Governmental
organizations (NGO) to facilitate access to commercial bank
credit of micro-enterprises existing in the informal sector.



- 18 -
The duration of the project is about five years, which will permit the
launching of the CAA/CdM and CAA/CTU until their steady state of operation
starting after 1992, and completion of the remaining components.
The Housing Finance Component (CAA/CdM)
54.       The CdM will be a special account located within the CAA which
will act as an executive agency. As a financial intermediary, the CAA/CdM
will refinance chiefly loans with a term of over en years granted by
eligible commercial banks and financial institutions to households,
associations and cooperatives legally established. The operation of the
CAA/CdM will be guided and supervised by a Steering Committee managed by
the General Manager of the CAA, which will monitor its performance,
determine the eligibility of participating banks based on creditworthiness
criteria (para 56), approve loan refinancing operations submitted by
commercial and specialized banks, and be responsible for periodically
adjusting the loan. refinancing terms in light of (a) monetary and credit
policy of the authorities; (b) government housing policy; and (c) the
overall financial position of the banking sector. The Steering Committee
will be composed of (i) the Ministers of Economy and Finance, Budget,
Construction and Urbanism to ensure interministerial agreement on housing
policy and finance; (ii) the national agency of the BCEAO to obtain advice
on the modalities of housing finance and to ensure compatibility with UNOA
flnancial regulations; (ili) representatives of the commercial banks to
obtain advice on the operational aspects of the CAA/CdM and marke:t
potential; and (iv) the Dlrector General of the DCGTX. To prepare the
necessary data for decision making, the Steering Committee will be
supported by a Technical Secretariat consisting of a core group of its
members. The account will be managed by a CAA/CdM unit consisting of a
manager appointed by the CAA and a financial analyst, assisted by
expatriate advisors to help start the CAA/CdM activities. The statutes and
operating procedures for the CAA/CdM have been prepared and a manager with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank has been identified.
The enactment of the statutes for the establishment of the CAA/CdM with an
initial deposit of CFAF 175,000,000 and the appointment of the manager will
be a condition of disbursement of this component. The possible conversion
of the CdM/CAA into a housing finance institution with juridical
personality and direct borrowing authority is to be examined during the
latter part of project implementation in light of experience gained.
55.       Characteristics of the Housing Program to be Refinanced by the
CAA/CdM. The CAA/CdM will refinance four types of housing loans comprising
the following (number of units are indicative): (a) a low-cost housing
unit program (about 2,300 units), with an average loan amount of
CFAF 2.4 million; (b) a social housing unit program (about 2,300 units),
with an average loan amount of CFAF 3.2 million; (c) a middle-income
housing unit program (about 1,300), with an average loan amount of
CFAF 8 million; and (d) a "multiple builders" program of new dwellings
(about 1,100 units) of various types such as small apartment buildings
and/or housing clusters, with an average loan amount of CFAF 12 mmllion.
About 65 percent of the total number of subloans (or 40 percent of total



- 19 -
financing) would apply to categories (a) and (b); the whole program will
satisfy about 20 percent of the creditworthy demand during the project
period starting from 10 percent at the beginning reaching about 30 pei_t-jnt
of the demand at the end.
56.       Eligiblity of Banks and Financial Institutions for CAA/CdM
Refinancing. Commercial and specialized banks that meet the Central Bank's
creditworthiness criteria, which are acceptable to the Bank, will be
eligible for CAA/CdM refinancing. The financial criteria currently applied
by the BCEAO relate mainly to minimum share capital (at least
CFAF 1 billion), net equity, short-term holdings, liquid assets Cat least
3 percent of total current or short-term liabilities), Central Bank
refinancing (maximum 35 percent of total commitments), and exposure limits.
On the basis of these criteria only about 10 banks currently qualify.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the CAA/CdM will ensure, in
consultation with the BCEAO, that these criteria are strictly applied when
refinancing applications are reviewed. To ensure consistency in the
quality and content of the requests submitted by the banks, a loan
appraisal form will be prepared by the CAA/CdM in agreement with the BCEAO
and made available to the banks. Besides, the Steering Committee will
issue to the banks a detailed circular, satisfactory to the Bank and the
BCEAO, describing the terms and conditions, including the BCEAO's
creditworthiness criteria, for the utilization of the line of credit. A
draft of this circular was agreed during negotiations, and its issuance
will be a condition of disbursement of the Housing Finance component.
57.       Beneficiary Eligibility Criteria.  In accordance with the Central
Bank regulations, the eligibility criteria will include inter alia that:
(a) individual beneficiaries or each member of an association can apply for
a house/plot only for an owner-occupied dwelling; (b) the monthly
installment of the beneficiaries does not exceed a third of the monthly
income; and (c) the total cost of the operation must be less than
CFAF 15 million. The eligibility criteria of beneficiaries (individuals
and associations) were agreed during the negotiations with special emphasis
on equitable distribution, especially with regard to low-income families.
Depending on the total cost of the house and a housing expense/income ratio
acceptable to the banks, the monthly income of eligible beneficiaries would
vary between CFAF 62,000 (low-income group) and CFAF 290,000 (middle-income
group). Beneficiaries will be required to make a down payment equal to at
least 10 percent of their total investment cost (plot and dwelling).
58.       Refinancing Mechanisms.  Under subloan agreements satisfactory to
the Bank, the CAA/CdM will refinance loans made by participating banks at a
rate equal to the preferential discount rate (Taux d'Escompte Preferentiel,
TEP, currently 6 percent) when such loans are not rediscounted by the
Central Bank. These loans will be refinanced up to a ceiling, expressed as
a percentage of the principal loan, based on a scale which takes into
account the social purpose of the loan, the household savings contribution
(down payment and savings from the differred credit scheme) and the loan
repayment terms. The ceiling will be in t"e range of 50-90 percent of the
amount of the principal loan, depending on the type of loans to be



- 20 -
refinanced. The refinancing facilities granted by the CAA/CdM to eligible
commercial banks and financial institutions will not be taken into account
in calculating the overall rediscount ceilings set by the BCEAO. The
participating banks will onlend to the beneficiaries in confcrmity with the
the maximum lending rate authorized by the Central Bank for the social
housing sector (i.e., the TEP + a maximum spread of 3 percent), with a
maturity ranking from 11 to a maximum of 20 years. They will repay the
CAA/CdM in accordance with the financing terms granted to the beneficiaries
(progressive or constant repayments) and will bear the commercial risk. In
the particular case of loans granted by banks to deferred credit
corporations, the CAA/CdM will be authorized, in agreement with the Central
Bank, to refinance such loans provided that the interest rate complies with
the BCEAO's requirements and that the maturity is not less than 15 years.
Only the lender to the differred credit institution (a bank or group of
banks) will be allowed to refinance at the CAA/CdM. The lender will bear
che risk vis a vis the differred credit institution, while the latter will
bear the risk vis a vis the beneficiary. The Government will bear the
foreign exchange risk but cannot charge a fee in return in view of the
limitation set by the BCEAO-imposed interest ceiling under the TEP and the
need to have a spread of about 3 percent to provide sufficient incentive to
commercial banks to participate in the mechanism. However, the interest
rate of 9 percent p.a. will be significantly above domestic and
international inflation projected for the next five years.
59.       Mobilizing and Mixing Resources.  The CAA/CdM will obtain its
funds from various sources on different terms and conditions. During the
project period these sources will include external borrowings (Bank and
USAID-HG loans) and Government participation which will be capitalized
(para 72). Funds will also be provided through domestic borrowing in the
form of long-term bonds issued by the CAA and purchased by institutional
investors.  The mix of these resources will allow the CAA/CdM to operate
under the preferential rediscount rate or TEP, but in order to limit its
recourse to Government funds, the CAA/CdM will be required to closely
monitor the key elements of its refinancing scheme, such as the refinancing
rate, ceilings and volume of loans, as well as the types of loans
refinanced. To this end the CAA/CdM will rely on computerized financial
simulations and keep close contacts with the banking sector.
The La-d Servicing Component
60.       To carry out the land servicing component, the Government r.as
decided to create a revolving fund called Compte des Terrains Ulrbains
located at the CAA (CAA/CTU) to replace SETU, which is being liquidated
(para 39). The CAA/CTU will finance civil works for land servicing and
will be replenished by revenues from plot sales. The stuccure of the
CAA/CTU is similar to the one for the CAA/CdM.  A S.^ering Committee will
be created including the Min:sters of Economy and Firance, Budget,
Construction and Urbanism, the Director General of the CAA and the Director
General of the DCGTX or their representatives. This Committee will control
CAA/CTU's budget and use of funds, approve land development programs,
eligibility criteria of clients and real estate agencies in charge of



- 21 -
serviced land commercialization, price and process sales of plots, and
advise on administrative matters. To prepare its decisions, it will be
supported by a Technical Secretariat consisting of a core group of its
members. CAA/CTU day-to-day operations will be managed by a Manager
appointed by the CAA, while DCGTX will act as the executive agency. The
land servicing program will be prepared on the basis of studies by the
DCGTX approved by MCU; works will be carried out through contractors
supervised by the DCGTX.
61.       Following approval of programs, plots will be sold by real estate
agencies to beneficiaries based on selection and recomendation in
acco- dance with appropriate creditworthiness criteria which were agreed
during negotiations. Collateral of real estate developers will consist of
appropriate assets. Beneficiaries will need to provide a financing package
arranged through a commercial bank participating in the housing finance
component at the CAA/CdM or pay in cash. In establishing the price of
individual plots, an element of cross-subsidization may be introduced to
permit setes to low-lncome groups (below the 50th percent!le).  In
accordance with local practice, the CAAtCTU will require a down payment of
30 percent of the sale price before development in order to pr6vide
adequate working capital for the CAA/CTU (para 87). The sale price of a
plot wll be deterained by the Investment cost (including the cost of land
compensat-on, topographical studies, and civil works), operating expenses
and the cost of borrowings in the implementation of this component. In
addition. th.a price will include a margin to en3ure the financial viability
of CAA/CTUe's operations. Each development program will be governed by a
financing plan prepared by the DCGTX, and approved by MCU before works
begin, and will be designed with rehi objective to achieve CAA/CTU self
financing without Treasury subsidies. To the extent that a development
program is financed by the Bank loa. it will be subject to prior approval
by the Bank. The Bank loan will only finance residential plots and some
plots for small business. The land servicing program will concentrate on
four areas of Greater Abidjan (including residential, commercial and
industrial sites) of which Abobo, Km 18, Djibi 1 and 2, Riviera Palmeraie
will be financed directly by the Bank loan, covering about 18,500 plots or
16 percent of the estimated denand of new households entering the market
during the project period.
62.       Proceeds of the land sales will flow into the CAAICTU revolving
fund managed by the CAA. Initial funding of the CAA/CTU will be provided
by advances from the Bank loan through the Special Account (para 76) and
advances from the beneficiaries. After project completion the CAA/CTU will
continue to operate without subsidies with a program averaging 4,250 plots
a year. Repayment of principal and interest charges due on borrowings for
land servicing will be made by the CAM from this account. The
establishment of the CAA/CTU with statutes and operating procedures and the
appointment of its manager satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of
loan effectiveness.



- 22 -
The Transport ComPonent
63.       The transport component will comprise the following elements:
(a) a core program constituting essentially the continuation of programs
initiated under the First and Second Urban Projects; (b) a time slice of
investments programmed for the Government's 1987-91 urban investment plan;
and (c) the construction of a vilEl e platform for resettling villagers
from the future new Port location in South Banco. The core program (about
40 percent of the transport component) will covrer: (i) rehabilitation and
maintenance of streets and pedestrian facilities in high-density areas,
totalling about 50 km; and (ii) improvement of traffic management systems
throughout Abidjan, including additional safety measures, such as
improvements of and equipment for about 47 junctions and a maintenance
program of traffic signals installed under the Zecond Urban Project. The
selective investments of the 1987-91 urban investment plan to be financed
under the project will amount to about 60 percent of the transport
component and will include (i) road access improvements of 35 km in
Abidjan's ten municipalities; (ii) construction of new roads totalling
about 17.5 km; and (iii) the improvement of the public transport system in
order to increase public accessibility and to extend services to low-income
areas or to low-income people working in residential areas. The transport
component, including studies, contracting, and supervision, will be
executed by the DCGTX.
64.       Construction and maintenance of urban roads will be done by
contractors. A large number of wholly or partially foreign-owned
contracting firms are established in Cote d'Ivoire. The sharp decline in
civil works activity in recent years has created a highly competitive
environment among these firms. A contracting industry of local firms
engaged in civil works has developed only to a limited extent; these firms
are mainly subcontractors for the larger firms or are engaged in works of a
more limited scope.
Studies, Training, and Pilot Program
65.       Under the project, studies will include the following:
(a) preparation of a transport plan for Greater Abidjan which will cover
the period up to year 2000. The main objectives of the transport plan will
be to determine the required investments and policies on the basis of a
program of investment priorities (including a possible third bridle over
the Abidjan lagoon), to develop transportation planning, and to promote
institutional development; (b) preparation of finAl design and tender
documents of works needed for the environmental protection study of the
Abidjan lagoon (sea outfall, completion of an interceptor, and
optimalization of existing facilities). The study will help prepare a
planned Abidjan Environmental Protection Project; (c) topographic etudies
at 1/5000 for Greater Abidjan on an area of about 100,000 ha to update
mapping for infrastructure planning and design purposes; and (d) a case
study of rural/urban development issues in Cote d'Ivoire to develop new
information and insights that will help facilitate the formulation and
implementation of better rural strategies and policies, with particular



- 23 -
attention to issues of resource allocation, resource mobilization, and
investments cho:ce ,etween urban and rural areas.
66.       Transport economic training at the National School of Public
Works (ENSTP) wil. be provided to train transport experts in the fields of
transport economics and planning, minagement of transport firms, management
of traffic flcis and road regulations. These experts will exercise their
activities either in central and local governments, in parastatal agencies
or private companies.
67.       An experimental pilot program will be designed to facilitate
access of micro-enterprises in the informal sector of Abidjan to commercial
bank credit. It would be launched with the assistance of NGOs to explore
ways to stimulate the business potential of micro-enterprises in order to
create additional jobs and increase economic activity among the less
advantaged city dwellers. It will consist of a line of credit of about
US$500,000 equivalent which would be made available to commercial banks
with Government guarantee for onlending to micro-enterprises at the
prevailing interest rate and without collateral. The objective is to prove
the ability of the informal sector to ensure timely loan repayment so as to
demonstrate its suitability for commercial bank credit. Experience within
existing micro-enterprises indicates good repayment records due to internal
group control.
Supervision and Monitoring
68.       A monitoring system will be designed to ensure that data
essential for project exacution are provided to project managers and that
design and execution of future projects will benefit from the experience
gained through this project:
(a)  Housing.  The participating banks will be responsible for
supervising the loans financed by them and will be required to
submit to the CAAMCdM semi-annual progress reports on loan
recovery performance. The CAA/CdM will review these reports and
make a summary available to the Bank. It would also submit, on a
quarterly basis, the summary of financial reports that is
routinely required from the banking institutions and, on an
annual basis, the final year-end accounts, including the audit
reports. - The CAA/CdM will be the focal point for ensuring
compliance with the above requirements by the banks and for
onward transmittal of the reports to the Bank. Given the
relative unfamiliarity of the CAA with financial intermediation,
technical assistance, including a senior advisor, will be
provided under the project;
(b) Land Servicing. The MCU will monitor the land servicing program,
with the assistance of DCGTX and will address the following
specific issues: (i) appropriateness of the urban services
created under the project to carry out more effective technical
and financial management, including adequacy of maintenance



- 24 -
standards; and (ii) the project's impact on urban development as
a whole, particularly on land tenure arrangements, property
transfers, and promotion of small contracting businesses; and
(c) Transport. DCGTX will be responsible for monitoring the traffic
components of the proposed project. Indicators to be monitored
will include: passenger and vehicle flows at several control
stations, service levels and waiting times, bus travel times and
delays, fuel consumption along specified routes, and changes in
modal split.
Project Costs and Financing
69.       Total project costs, net of taxes (US$28.5 million), amount to
US$275.7 million (CFAF 88.2 billion), of which US$134.5 million
(CFAP 43 billion) or 48.8 percent are foreign exchange costs.
70.       Base costs of all components were those prevailfng in CBte
d'Ivoire in January 1986, in CFA francs converted to US dollars equivalent.
Costs of the housing finance component are based on total construction
costs of dwellings refinanced by CAM/CdH during project implementation on a
procurement basis. Costs of land servicing and traffic engineering works
were estimated on the basis of preliminary or detailed engineering.  The
lmand needed by CAA/CTU will be granted by Government as a non-monetary
counterpart contribution and is not included in project costs. However,
where applicable, land compensation will be paid by CAA/CTU to existing
owners through beneficiaries advances and is included in local costs, less
the first compensation costs which have already been paid by the Capital
Expenditure Budget (BSIE). Services, goods and equipment for project
purposes will be subject to customs duties and internal taxes. Services of
direct key counterpart staff are not included in the base costs since civil
servants are already appointed and paid according to the existing civil
service salary scale.
71.       Provision for physical contingencies, estimated as a percentage
of base costs are included for the land development (10 percent). transport
programs (5 percent), and studies (10 percent). Price contingencies
include domestic and foreign inflation. Total contingencies amount to
US$49.6 million (CFAF 15.8 billion), representing 16.3 percent of total
project costs.
72.       The Bank loan will finance most of the estimated foreign exchange
requirement or 45.7 percent of total project cost net of taxes. Because of
budgetary constraints, the Government has also requested Bank financing for
maintenance of traffic signals, road markings, and traffic signs in
AbidJan, and the proposed loan will finance such maintenance on a declining
basis. The provision by the Government to increase amounts of counterpart
funds for maintenance was agreed upon during negotiations. Through the
Capital Expenditure Budget (BSIE), the Government will finance a total
amount of US$62.1 million (CFAF 19.8 billion), of which US$37.8 million
(CFAF 12.1 billion) for the capital contribution to CAA/Cd! over a



- 25 -
five year period, US$22.6 million (CFAF 7.2 billion) for the counterpart
contribution of the transport component and US$1.7 milJion
(CFAF 0.5 billion) for other counterpart contributions (technical
assistance, training, studies). Out of the total project cost, the balance
(or US$116.1 million) will be financed through payments of beneficiaries
(down payment and acquisition of plots), participation by financial
institutions and a USAID loan under negotiation (Housing Guarantee Program)
of US$10 million to help finance the CAAICdM.
73.       The Republic of Cote d'Ivoire will be the Borrower.  It will
channel the proceeds of the loan through the CAA to: (a) the Compte de
Mobilisation (CdM) in an amount equivalent to US$39.1 million of which
37.8 million at the prevailing Bank terms for housing projects financed
under subloans to be reimbursed by CAA/CdM to CAA, and 1.2 million and
0.1 million for technical assistance and equipment respectively, which will
be provided to CAA/CdM on a grant basis; (b) the Compte des Terrains
Urbains (CTU) in an amount equivalent to US$14.8 million of which
14.1 million for civil works at the prevailing Bank terms to be reimbursed
by CAA/CTU to CAA, and US$0.8 million and US$0.1 million for technical
assistance and equipment respectively, which will be provided to the
CAA/CTU on a grant basis; and (c) to the DCGTX on behalf of the IIPWT in an
amount equivalent to US$72.1 million for the transport, studies, training,
and pilot project. CAA, on behalf of the Government, will support the
foreign exchange risk, the varying interest rates and debt service.
Government funds from the Capital Expenditure Budget (BSIE) will be made
quarterly and will be passed on to CAA/CdM through a special account in the
form of capital contributions.
74.       As for the housing finance component, the commercial banks will
repay their borrowings to the CAA/CdM in accordance with the repayment
schedule agreed with their clients and approved by the CAA/CdM Steering
Committee (para 58) at the time of the review of loan packages submitted by
the banks for refinance. In the event of bad loans, the commercial banks
will be required to repay their borrowings in accordance with an agreed
financing plan. As for the land servicing component, beneficiaries'
advances and final payment will be made to the CAA/CTU.
Procurement
75.       Procurement will be in accordance with Bank guidelines.  Standard
procurement documents for civil works have been reviewed and agreed with
the Government. All civil works contracts above CFAF 3.0 billion
equivalent, excluding Value Added Tax (VAT), and contracts for goods and
materials above CFAF 150 million equivalent, excluding VAT, will be on the
basis of ICB procedures acceptable to the Bank. For contracts below these
levels, the same procedures will apply, except that on repatriation of the
foreign exchange part of the bid the exchange rate fluctuation risk will be
borne by the bidder, technically classifying these bids as being ICB. All
procurement decisions for a value of more than CFAF 500 million equivalent
will be subject to prior Bank review and approval.  All contracts financed
under the project will be prepared and evaluated by the DCGTX and approved



- 26 -
by the relevant authorities, including the Central Directorate of Contracts
(DCM). Experience with these procurement arrangements under the Second
Highway Sector Loan (Loan 2581-IVC of 1985) has been fully satisfactory as
they have led to a substantial increase in foreign and local competition,
resulting in a wider field of international contract awards than existed
before, and to prices that are advantageous. The use of the same system
under the project is therefore expected to further strengthen the
efficiency of procurement procedures in CSte d'Ivoire. During
negotiations, confirmation on these procurement arrangements including
international advertising for LCB for civil works were obtained from
Government. Procurement of services for the technical assistanL* and
studies will be in accordance with Bank guidelines and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in Annex IV.
Disbursements
76.       The CAA/CdM will submit disbursement applications for withdrawals
made on the basis of 50 percent of the resource gap (para 84) needed to
cover the demand for subloans. As for the CAA/CTU, the Bank loan will
cover 100 percent of the resource gap between the advance payments of the
beneficiaries and the total cost of the land development program during the
project period. Disbursement applications for withdrawals will be made for
civil works expenditures exclusively. For civil works under the transport
component, disbursement will be made on the basis of 75 percent of total
costs. Disbursements for the technical assistance, equipment and studies
will be on the basis of 100 percent of foreign costs and 70 percent of
local expenditures. Disbursement of the pilot project will be on the basis
of 100 percent of total costs. Maintenance expenditures for the traffic
light component will be financed on a declining basis, starting at
60 percent in 1987 and decreasing by 10 percent each year thereafter so
that maintenance costs will begin to be fully supported by counterpart
funds by 1993. Payments of maintenance expenditures made before the date
of effectiveness but after January 1. 1987, will be disbursed retroactively
in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$300,000.
77.      In order to expedite disbursements, assurances have been obtained
that the Governmet will establish three Special Accounts in the CAA in an
amount in CFAF representing about two months' expenditures for the related
components: the first for the housing component (CAA/Cd?), the second for
the land development component (CAA/CTU), and the third for other
components (transport, studies, training, and pilot project). These
accounts will be used to prefinance eligible expenditures under the Bank
loan and will be replenished on the basis of standard Bank procedures.
Applications for replenishment of the three Special Accounts will be
submitted monthly or when the initial deposit to each Special Account is
diminished by one-third, whichever comes first. Given the disbursement
profile of the Second Urban Project (Loan 2048-IVC), the estimated schedule
of disbursement for the proposed subprojects is shorter than the standard
disbursement profile for Bank projects in CSte d'Ivoire, and the rlosing



- 27 -
Date for the proposed loan has therefore been scheduled for
December 31, 1992.
Audits and ReportinR
78.       Separate project accounts will be maintained by each implementing
agency. Quarterly progress reports will be prepared by the executing
agencies and furnished to the Bank by the relevant ministries, focusing on,
among other things, policy, physical, contractual, and financial progress
of the project, including project performance related to key performance
indicators which have been agreed during negotiations.
79.       Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, no later than
six months after the close of each Government fiscal year, suitable
financial statpments, including cashflows of project subaccounts and
year-end balance sheets reflecting the financial operations and position of
the project entities, will be made available to the Bank. These financial
statements will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank
and its report vilI be made available to the Bank no later than six months
after the close of each Government financial year. The three Special
Accounts and the statements of expenditures for disbursements by CAA for
the project will be subject to audit procedures and auditors acceptable to
the Bank.
Project Justification
80.       Beneficiaries. The beneficiaries of the Project will be mainly
the inhabitants of Greater Abidjan. However, applications for housing
finance under the CdM facility in other urban areas will also be
considered. It is expected that once experience has been gained, the
access of other urban areas to the CdX facility will be widened and the
potential for this will be assessed at mid-term review. The benefits of
the land servicing and urban transport components will accrue only to the
Greater Abidjan area.
81.       The most recent estimate (USAID 1985) of the Abidjan household
income distribution shows that the median monthly income is CFAF 108,450.
The low cost average housing loan refinanced by the CAAICdK, which would
permit purchase of a two-bedroom unit built on a serviced plot, has been
assumed at CFAF 3.1 million, borrowed at 9 percent per annum interest rate
plus 0.5 percent insurance over 15 years. The fixed monthly installment
would be CFAF 30,800, or 33 percent of a monthly monetary income amounting
to CFAF 93,300, which corresponds to the 46th percentile and above. Using
a progressive mortgage payment schedule growing at 3 percent per annum and
reducing the monthly installments during the first year by 25 percent, the
monthly mortgage would start at CPAP 23,100. Under the latter payment
schedule, the low-cost average housing loan of CFAF 3.1 million would be
affordable to families earning CFAF 70,000 per month, which is at the
30th percentile; without the project, a loan of CFAF 3.1 million, amortized
over ten years, would only be affordable to households at the 55th
percentile. The land development program will include plots with minimal



- 28 -
services of CFAF 360,000 (36 percent of the land development program) which
under the project will permit the purchase of a dwelling costing a minimum
of CFAF 2.8 million, affordable to households earning monthly incomes above
CFAF 62.000, corresponding to the 28th percentile.
82.       The relative urban poverty threshold in Abidjan was defined at
US$375 or CFAF 119,700 yearly per capita in 1983. Calculations based on a
USAID study showed that 20 percent of the urban population of Greater
Abidjan was below the relative poverty threshold. Projecting current
trends, about 450,000 households are estimated to be living in Abidjan in
1992, of which about 100,000 would be below the relative poverty threshold,
corresponding to 550,000 people. The low-income group which would benefit
from the CAA/CdM and CTU would range between the 25th and 55th percentiles
of the income distribution (above the poverty threshold) and could
represent about 10,000 households during the project period. Concerning
public transport, a survey made of the users showed that 60 percent of them
earn less than the median income. About 56 percent of all project
investments (transport, housing, and land development) in Abidjan would
directly benefit the low-income group. Among this group, about 40 percent
of the population is under the poverty threshold. The overall population
that will benefit from the project is estimated at about 300,000 households
in 1992, or about two-thirds of the total population of Greater Abidjan.
Financial Analysis
83.       The financial projections of the CAA/CdM were undertaken over a
15-year period, according to the following base case: (a) after the
project completion, a number of 2,500 units would be refinanced each year
from 1992 to 2001; (b) 75 percent of the subloans would be refinanced
during the first five years of their maturity (averaging 15 years), and
25 percent during the first ten years of their maturity (differed credit
loans ranking from 15 to 20 years of maturity); (c) subloans would be
refinanced under the preferential discount rate (TEP) which may be adjusted
upon a decision by the BCEAO, but was taken at the current rate of
6 percent a year during the whole projection period; and (d) the
refinancing ceiling (para 58) which may vary from time to time and
according to the type of dwellings, was projected at a fixed share of
80 percent of disbursed loans during the whole period. During this
projection period, the CAA4CdM loan portfolio outstanding would grow from
CFAF 2.3 billion in 1987 to CFAF 68.6 billion in 2001, an average annual
increase of 25.4 percent.
84.       During the project period, the 7,000 units to be refinanced
through the CAA/CdM would correspond to an investment of about
US$156 million (CFAF 50 billion). Down payments by beneficiaries would
amount to US$27.2 million (CFAF 8.7 billion), or 17.5 percent of total
investment.  Total loans disbursed would amount to US$119.3 million
(CFAF 38.2 billion), of which US$23.7 million (CFAF 7.6 billion) or
20 percent of total amount disbursed, would be contributed by commercial
banks, and US$5 million (CFAF 1.6 billion), or 4.2 percent of total amount
disbursed would consist of loan repayments by the beneficiaries. The



- 29 -
balance to be disbursed (US$90.6 million or CFAF 28.9 billion) would
represent the CAA/CdM total financing needs. These needs would be covered
primarily by the following resources:
(a)  a portion of the Bank loan amounting to US$37.8 million
(CFAF 12.1 billion), or 41.7 percent of total resources;
(b)  capitalized BSIE transfers amounting to the same amount as the
Bank loan (US$37.8 million or CFAF 12.1 billion); and
(c) net income from operations amounting to US$6.2 million
(CFAF 2.0 million).
Additional resources would come from an expected USAID-HG loan amounting to
US$10 million (CFAF 3.2 billion), and from issuing long-term bonds by the
CAMICdM on the domestic financial market, amounting to around
US$1.5 million (CEAF 500 billion).
85.       During the project period, the average cost of the mix of funds
used by the CAAJCdM would be kept below the prevailing preferential
discount rate (TEP, 6 percent), ensuring a positive spread for the CAA/CdM
(from 2.2 to 3.4 during the project period) which would cover all the
operating expenses. This relatively high spread is the result of the large
share of capitalized BSIE transfers during the five year start up of
CAA/CdM's activities, amounting to 41.7 percent of total financing needs
(para 84) or to 24 percent of total investment. However, the contribution
by the BSIE would stop in 1992 (six years after project inception), and
would remain at a total level of US$47.2 million (CFAF 15.1 billion) for
the projection period (15 years), implying a total Government contribution
of 6 percent to housing investment financed through CAA/CdM at that time.
During the same period (i.e., between 1992 and 2001), the expected spread
will remain positive despite an increasing amount of domestic borrowings
which are expected to be more costly than external loans from official
development institutions, both in terms of interest and maturity. However,
the self-sustainability of CAA/CdM could face some limitations if the gap
between the return on loan portfolio (equivalent to TEP) and the cost of
funds, without BSIE transfers, remained negative. These limitations are
shown (a) by the evolution of the spread which, although positive, would
start declining after project completion; and (b) by the debt coverage
ratio which would fall below unity after 1996. If the discrepancy between
the preferential rediscount rate (TEP) and the domestic or international
borrowing rates remain the same in the future, the CAA/CdM would be
compelled to refinance at a higher rate than the TEP. in order to avoid
further transfers from the BSIE. Given the assumptions of the base case,
sensitivity analyses show that an upward adjustment of the refinancing rate
of, for example, 1.5 point should be sufficient for self-sustainability in
the future for CAA/CdM. Should any major change occur in the near future
in the existing interest rate structure and regulations, an increase of the
refinancing rate from the TEP would require either BCEAO agreement (since
the maximum allowable spread cannot be higher than 3 points for the



- 30 -
commercial banks during the rediscounted period), or the introduction of a
system of flexible interest rates in medium- and long-term housing loans.
86.       The financial projections of the CAA/CTU were done up to 1997
according to the following base case: (a) beneficiaries would make a down
payment averaging 30 percent of the cost of the plot, followed by
subsequent payments over three years of 20 percent, 40 percent, and
10 percent respectively; in the event of cancellation, penalties will apply
(10 percent of the sale price of the plot); (b) for each operation, the
sale price of plots will be adjusted not only to reflect the cost of each
land servicing subproject. but also to balance the overall CAA/CTU
financial plan. To meet this requirement, selling prices would need to be
about 30 percent above construction costs; and (c) provisions for bad debt
will be made, averaging 5 percent of plot sales during the project period.
Although debt collection in the proposed scheme of the CAA/CdH is expected
to be satisfactory, tnis relatively large provision has been included in
view of the poor performance in collecting land servicing debts in the
past.
87.       To balance its financial plan during the project period, the
CAAICTU would not be able to rely solely on the advance payments made by
beneficiaries.  Projected financial statements show that the financing gap
at the end of the project period would be US$14.1 million
(CFAF 4.5 billion). The required additional resources will be provided by
the Bank loan which will cover about 30 percent of total plot costs.
Towards the end of the project period, the CAA/CTU would also be able to
start financing programs whose sources of funds would come from a mix of
beneficiaries' advances and self-financing. During CAA/CTU steady state of
operations (construction of about 4,250 plots prr year), the cashflow would
be sufficient to maintain a revolving fund by 1996. During the same period
of steady state of operations, the overall financial rate of return (assets
being equivalent to the land development portfolio) would progressively
increase from 7.6 percent in 1992 to reach around 10 percent at the end of
the forecasted period (1997), and the operating expenses, including
additional technical assistance if needed, would be fully covered by
revenues from operations (operating ratio ranging between 0.16 in 1992 and
0.74 in 1997).
Economic Analysis
88.       The economic analysis shows the following results:
(a) Land Development Program. The measurement of economic benefits
for the sites and services component is based upon estimates of
increases in property values brought about by the provision of
infrastructure and other services. This approach is conservative
since certain project benefits, such as community
facilities-related benefits, are not taken into account as they
might be imperfectly reflected in property value. Nevertheless,
it provides a useful indication of the minimum economic value of



- 31 -
project outputs. The economic rate of return of the land
development program is estimated at 28.5 percent.
(b) Transport Component. The objective of the transport component of
the project is the improvement of the efficiency and safety of
the existing road network and the promotion of sound
transportation investment planning. The anin item under the core
program would be the strengthening and rehabilitation of city
streets. Savings in vehicle operating costs for existing
traffic, due to better driving conditions, and time savings,
would be the main benefits of the works. Based on a detailed
analysis of a sample of typical road sections, the lowest
economic rate of return, without time savings, on the
strengthening program is expected to be 31.7 percent. Traffic
indicators for 1985 show a clearly increasing trend of private
and public traffic demand. It has been estimated that during
1987-92. traffic demand will increase by about 4.5 percent p.a..
supporting the investment approach discussed in para 62.
(c) A separate economic analysis has been undertaken for the traffic
management program. Intersections to be equipped with traffic
signals have been selected on the basis of two criteria:
(a) reducing congestion and reducing the risk of accidents;
(b) secondary considerations were the volume of pedestrian
traffic and the presence of special facilities (schools,
hospitals). On the basis of these criteria, a priority ranking
of intersections was established. The weighted economic rate of
-return of the traffic management program is estimated at
41.6 percent. In addition, an economic analysis has been done
for reserved bus lanes (700 ml) along the Nangui Abrogoua
Boulevard for which the economic rate of return is estimated at
10.4 percent without time savings and 36.3 percent with time
savings.
89.      The project will also finance a time slice of new investments
included in the 1987-92 transport program.  The economic rate of return of
the investments financed by the Bank loan under this program (urban road
links to be upgraded or to be built) will vary between 17.2 and
51.3 percent with time savings, and between 12.6 and 26.9 percent without
time savings.
Benefits and Risks
90.      The proposed project is expected to yield substantial benefits to
Cote d'Ivoire. First. by making a package of financial and technical
assistance available, the project would considerably facilitate the
Impla:entation of the housing elements of the Governwent's Structural
Adjustment Program. Second, funds provided under the project for the
CAA/CdM would contribute to the long-term resources that are needed by
banks to finance housing loans. In addition, the onlending mechanism to
channel funds through the CAAJCdM to the banking system as a whole would



- 32 -
permit a gradual expansion of households having access to long-term
borrowings. Third, the project would make long-term resources available to
undertake a five-year land development program and to constitute a cashflow
that would allow CTU to self-finance future land servicing projects without
Government subsidy. Fourth, the transport component would maimize the use
of existing infrastructure through traffic management measures and
maintenance programs which should significantly reduce public transport
costs.
91.       The CAA/CdM is designed to chart the way for future Bank and
other lending to social housing through the banking system as a whole,
rather than through a specialized bank. Risks of the project are:
(i) the relative unfamiliarity of the Ivorian banking system with financial
intermediary procedures; and (ii) the loan demand from homeowners
materializing less rapidly than expected, partly due to economic conditions
and partly on account of the uncertain response of commercial banks. These
risks are mitigated by including technical assistance and by motivating
commercial banks to participate in the housing loan component through a
maximum spread of 3 percent, along with refinancing facilities. The
proposed lending amount for the housing finance component has been
established with these risks in mind, as the CAAMCdM's refinancing would
represent, if current trends continue, about 40 percent of the estimated
demand of term credits required by the housing sector at the end of the
project. Another risk concerns the future self sustainability of the
CAA/CdM, given the existing structure of domestic interest rates. For this
purpose, an assessment will be made periodically to determine if an upward
adjustment of the refinancing rate is required.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
92.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 2, 1987



AINE I
Page 1 of 3
-33 -
W w  ata              0           do, aw l _
hot                                                            _1W  O1 FMb ID it COMM WN 10
wha1m cm
lSae                     at cist mm)                                              kw                                                  [shut"          .              fvj.tW
3970    I"97    31       3       119191    19"1   lE       13    3t1               31               19     39       I9      I9W   I9
'siin                                                     .                                                                                                   ..                        .
kms            almu _1       9.3                      EI.S     3.7     9.       LI    11.6       1.2    -,L      42      -4.1              1.3            2.J      L6      3.2     LI       L0
*raZtw"                   7W7t                       Le    -4.4       94.      M.    12.9      L1    -1.4   -33.t        L.              9.1            1.       1.1      .4      Lt      2.
s f                       34.3                      1L.     30.6    19.1      6.0      6      10.   -1.         3.3   -2                 0.             1       Li       LU      Ls       4.4
Shami                   t3IL4                      -IL3    -3.0        I      LI    24.7    4.2    -LI         4.4    -1.0               1.1            4.3      L       L3      LI       LI
fR.1u5 I IXtim            7132                       9.3 4     .3   -12A t    .       -2.4    -3.9      1.2     iJ      L.               9.0            1.1      LI       U      LI       Le
muobw                       My.                       14.t     9.7    ISA       Ls       9.7    -7.7    -LS       1.1    4.9               4.1            7.2     2.L      I.9       1      L.7
kl's h.e.t                  136.                       W      43.    31.4    -7.0        A.4   -13.5   -I3.    -2.    -9.                -13.4           53.      LI       4.7    LU        Ls
uti S mU                   1IA                        51.7    -7.9       i      2.3    12.2    14.2    -1I   -131.4        l.S             9.1           -L4       1.1     4.0     Le       4.0
1 t .1                     "LS                         7     22.0    14.      -L32      L6    11.9    -.    -L23    -L2                   1.            IL9      3.7      Le      L2      LI
Gr.     _                     -                        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -               4I.J          -31.3     LO    SLI        617    87.2
w    flater Uuim            33.0                      N0        .7      1.9    61.2    0.       10I  S1.2    b33    54.l                  3I5.2         141.3   IILI   IIL3    I3.S        LI1
laOp raIl  @1 3             437.6                    239.0   22L3.1   21 aL     2.7   Z33.3   27.*1    MI.  JR3.         W.              40             93is  393.    31.    34.0  SOJ
0es    C  at baa  fotszs                                                   heap   _   hu           33
gat cm a  patia                                                        iat cmis  316 prlcSo
310     313913           313["  i  39.    3190         3919 1973119111  vt              397333           leuan          31J9191
ksmes aniu c Pia                    [OA.   34.0  3[I.0   3A.   366.6   300.0                     1.9              4.4              .13             -3.2           Le6
5uutes                             "9A      33.9    3.  2   .        VA4    16.9                3.I             0.9              LI              -4             La5
loan"                     ILI~~31.  36.    37.0    31.7    36.      32.9              9.3              2.9              Lb0             -L.,            .13
mnrukm                             27.9    26.0    31.  3  5.3    319         3.                7.6            ILI3              Ls              -1.3           LI
Prd. s a  .htiass                   30;    21.9    36 t.6    1.6    3.3       17.0             33.,             3.2              3.0              3.0         I5
C_ _mma                              11.4    16.0    f.4    77.2    16.    19.A                  7.                .I              '4L             -1.3           Ls
s' luwmi                             21.9    Z.3    2L2    2.          9.1    IZ.                Lt               LI              16. -Ll 
Fowls u  Ws                          3at    3.3 IL      7 7     3J       4I.3    42I0                    Lt       Lo               LI                 I           2L.
loeom  of Ms                         3.61    29.1    3166    IL9      SU.      33.               7.3              1I3             7.6             -11.4          3Le
om  2T.d 1amap                        -       -        -       -       3I3    2L3               -                                                  Lt            9.1
t. a I ofW Ferrnt
PUUC 13                              lid      19o    39       19               I39 " 3990
" _I                                 M.A      J       3J .J    77.3    31.     1t.L
-m    a_n.mt                         26.      L7      24.     22.7   I2LI 3     9.3
hu3g SnJ                 D            lI       4.t1     U   * .2        9.6  LJ S
C*W  haue                             LI     7.3       6.     11.1      7.4  3b 4
Fe'       Fis_ a  imW                 4.9      3.4 -           - 7.9    La    --L9
11.1  33F8m I        r              1943-10          3910-23          111-0            30-              914940
WVMS %tas 0)                           1.2             3.3 Ll                           -2.0             4.1
w    wE aM1ts&W  bs                   1.0             4I.              2.2              -L              Li
Ica                                   :               Lb               1.1              1.               LO
weosS  snps 6.                        0.3              4.4            -s.C              0.4              0.3
twet BaUtat                           6.0              4.9             23              -44I              1.4



ANNMC I
Page 2 of 3
- 34 -
dosistial            926           Imi-31thfummWill 1                                           39   a         - EIC  I-UDI
fw   I3tdt            72M          go3, I3-)
_twt                               _                                *d u3tU rds 3 a cd_l6t pnc
(jitim US
391e-                                          -                                         - -                          -  -,.
liwicatm                  at  ntrot  nicul                   E                  tl                                                           IsiA              fh
970    1917      393      1979         l6   3        I=       t1i      96              1q1             191541
EIEUE TOE
lbodMiai fEpvts             217.3                        1.7    -LI    21.3         L.7      LI       1.      -L6    -13.I    29.5                LS               LS
lAnrcstw.                  159.0                       4.4     -.5      2L       -52      I5.5    -L.    -1LI   -17.6    61.1                  14.9              LI
lZudtr                    183L3                         1.    IL7      -I.J      L.      -.t    U.7        Li   -12S         L                -LI.              LI
lbrcmWiu  _tc              1779.9                        U.3    29.17    I.9        1.- -3LS -ILI             0.9    16.3   2a.7                  4.6              Li
Fe                         231.6                       26.0    2.2    SV.2    343    -26.1    47.5           4.1   -31.2    -7.9               2.                4.3
htrnl_                     43LE                        U4.      4.        7.6     6.      -7.7    -5.0   -6L.    .162        3L.               -LS               L7
Nmutgtwed III        L    111.7                        22.7    2.1       9.      -.1   -21.1   -3.7         -L.    -14.9      ML                7.0              i4
MICES                                                    3970    1977139           1919     tt        M       1M      113      36                no               1996
ELWt lautm  11l6.1)                                      U.S    12.4      6.9   314.5    1L2    I36.         I1.      *.1    37L.              I36.               U7.1
I_*w   1*m (Iglt)                                        ILI         DA4  Ie2   SOL         IL      IILS U  L2    ML*    IMLe                    M               111.2
fIre  f Trk  ain                                       131.3   153.    3.    311.4   9%.1           6.6    9L0        96.3    3.                266.3 1             1L
mmb  06 lbdinin freIRH                                                          blqrn bitn 1win 13
(At cunt pin)                                                             fat Uudt  116 Sie"
.10     190      In1      291!    INS       39      199           190319            1913519         :15119            3913531           1I39
ezwt.                        3641.6   l6.    169.6   869.6    1.0   369.    1.0                       L.               I2.9              4.                1.5             2LS
IriCulti                     3.      09.9    79.5      0.4    &9         1.4    S6.9               .i                 .6               51                2.L               6.I
lnbstry                      7.6     3LI    2.3    3.S   3JLI    I .              13               -4.0             1L6               .L2               7.6               5.7
lpts                        130.6   1e9o    1M.    16t.0   369.    IILO    i1.0                       7.3              2.0               16.             -L3S               5.9
Food                        30.6     1.3    16.9       9.4      9.5      32      13.7              -4.0             32.5              11.0              3                -0.3
Pitrolm                      9.0     5.3       L.6    11.0    2.3    22          1.2               2.4               4.0               5.;             -6.2               LI
Ramiacturud   ds             1.6    137       II    19.         Al    660         LI                7.7              tS                1.2             -5.3               6.6
5r, of Tri. ion                             Sa od Trifg nth                                 0 fra: t .t1
Indtrial Cuintnu  3D IUInwiq cl_nu8  IZI                                          Captal fSrli  il Euwtors III
OI3CCTIHU O  rUKE (a)         3SS      31       3975    1979              39SS    170    3nn        Im               175      190     193      i9n
Exports                      r1.4    6L9        73.0    13.6              3L50     11.3    24.2      11.;              Lb       0.2      6.e    2L7
4rpacultwf                  14.2    .L        159      -                11.0      7.9    IL2        -                0.0      0.2      L.       -
Indnstry lEacl. 11          50.3    J.2      3.5       -                469.0    00.7    iL6l      -                 6        6.0     60       -
Impots                         0.7    14.0      81.3    61.3              34.1    14.3    21.4       L3                L.I      0.I      1.3    13.7
la) To be vpdated



ANN   I
Page 3 of 3
- 35 -
ai. Z I   ;W  - t   J J6t,0  U_m    n de am im
w     Cwciii      12       .031M
iatss                                                                 -- --e                                                    -                                                      _
arlS    Ills    1917    3931    1979    1136    3nu    343   .31W      3Wmi6 IQ                         ggo    3W      Am      Lw      3
Nm a u"mmn
:.rs 3lo3eI1Fil                            3.9    2n.:    .21.1   aa        ma   nw.    s-u1.3 5.2se    az   UP-I                 12.6             u ia       s    m:a1.  ISI  34513L
,_,,o of  _m                                 IMLO  Zwj   mays  :         W.4  MI     :n3.4  .L    :e.          V:J                                   ZM. >L ;.S   11Ll.'  *1It  ML2
;owts of NMS                        Iaam    I15.   20.8#  33L?   227.   232.   :ila.    41.17  1393.22I3.2                   2471.           211I.0   =.L3   3.   431wo  '01.2
;_ns.     mi                         325. _64    no.,w   1   L   r   275.   ;at.   o.W.    mUl.    as;   119.                                ri.a  SB        DIII  3.3   2346.6
_a4etv Broem                 5uL4   -11.37    -462.3  -ZI.1   -ILi  -4                   31.7   611.9  -21.9  -3.?                -24L4           -44  41.2 -      2I.23  -Y4Li  417.1
curiawtota                                    uL       3.5    31.7    MS   23.3   9362   431.7   373   214.?                 29              32.5  S2L32   26.4    91.2  433.
ir,                                   aem.    zi         31.9  s112.1   si    imit   321.L9  30       43.      LG             69.             PLO   sS    133.    U.123    aL.
3.cc Sof ow3   31.3   '11.6  -12.3  *:i'j  4N4   -3.6L  -234    u.s   IS.,                                                       im.L            &.P.     Its    ias   oo.e  uazaa
fe tsr BSx      _ i v4epwas               -231.   -3L.   -53.1  -71.5. -411L6 -01.1  -911L7 -3            -9S  40.5               -134L           .6IL3  -MY  -92.7 L111.11 2 .p16
3.tmt IUcit  III                     -51.5   41.3    -1    -1N.   -36L5  .37.l  .1119  43.6    4.m                l          -13.2           -5I.   -mne  -ml  -573.3  40.S
6136 _anaI   ai                       -3LI    -146.    4.&  tS.1  -13.4  -It1  -33.IJ  43             -aLS   -79s6            -n.A            -we   -is.   -n         4.0A   -0.6Q
_tt                                 -an.2  -as   -'41'  -43    .50.2  -nLs1   -It    -JLI   -m.s  -214.                      377.5          _JI.S   51.      3 -2694   _321.1 -1;.T
w        femaleS                      -13.3   -23.1   -3.9   -3L9   431       -44.    -3LS            15.2    4.3              La              LO    ti        s.7     7.2     7.6
an _e                                       a Ma- -313.4  -ZULU  -37341-4.7  .&375   -IS4  -33     117 -1324  46   -13.9           39.7           -374.S  -ae    -14.2   -.L    3942
CEs.tal  true  Odom                        M..   32        MS   94        W.s  mJ       :    na'    511.2    Vs 219.1              *         1    a.s  IdLV    &OA    ms    Mal
h11te CastE                           329 l           -7t.2 ..   t1l   712      7.4   336.6132 I 2L 9 U  t   MS   -.V          15.4            73.    7s    69.2    3L?    97J
Polc Catsal                           31.2   as        14.1   76.    U5i    331 s.i.S    EL3           41    SILO             213.41          269.7   -sJ   -6.1  -3lat  -In.
_Mi CNO 1A45                          -tLS   9I1S.  -MJ.1      13      3.5       .I  .3tL.   -43         .17 7     .1 -7 J      114 -.3       -13.2   13.3    114.   344   24LS
trait blsa                                -12.3   -5    Ml    39.9   JS -LS   436.1  -21.1   -ILl  -.w  IJS2                       3;.1             17.6  -32.7 aa.4    MaJ   33
Barges ktfl                           053    321s  -3S1.    -3.9   311,    3M.1F    7IA, nCi   i.L  -SiLl -ISLS                       -        5.1 331.2    0.9  SIL    -n9.9
Fump    Me                              LO      Ls      0.5    6.6      Ls      L.      *.      L.    ISL3   -115             _311.                                    .
Sbt OF                                 6.6      L.6     9.3     LO      3.6    4.    5. 3      0.0U&  3*.    I4.               4.4            _4L9  -363.5  -isi3  -346*A  -91.9
IEr_l CITLx ED         lb*
ta_r  HOUSeS                              3n__ : 3    0a3    9061  134.9  I3LI 5           0144.6  1S7   AU.7   617.2              20.2            Mu2   33u2       2.     2.3    3.S
FInn   SISn                               9..    36.3   0.2   0I39   33U   313.2   '.2   93.9   ]I.9   ou                         6Z1. 33                 9       5.9    1.I       LO
basin lasets                          130..   341.4   13.    3311   3534   UL4    I2.3    4.4    4LS    37                     32.3             9.5   3LW       2.4     3.4
Fisaal lastiae                         2.2   32.9   121.    af.4   717.5  9i3.   W3.1 W1.1             U       ml              "A              34.2  tS9        1.2     LI       -
aloft           -               -     I 3               -       -       -               -               -       -               -       -
ldatlarul IU_                           36      5.7    73.6   35J       I"      374.    A4    29L.    36.9   224.               33.              IL2    3.9    264    3.L    26.6
[M                                     24.     36.2    17.3    5.7     U.       MA      42J     61    ateL   21.                m.2             0416   41.    21.       291    2LI
Ceo1aso-   -                                           -      4.1     Ls      1.I     1.3     1.3     L3      *1              *.              a3       -       -       -       -
m-aseni                             26.7    4iS     .17   a.3    55.        517    41.2   21.    393.9   asL                 1.s    : n       9    46.6    2a1.     24.6  DL1
M3                                      3.3     3*      3        .        .      .        . .6  3.6             g.e              3.6 3L6                 3. 0.1 s L  OL  e 41  Lb  4.1
ameas                                 11 13.  3.      1.3    6.        -       -       -       -       -       .               -                      i -             I .      -
flnc  .-_E                                    -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -               -               .       -       .       .       -
Stir laimlatrl lam                       tsA    34*    2.9      71 - a    .2    2J   39.3    73.6    519    17.8                IL1             ar.J    ILI9     Li      4.1     L9
iIair_ Las                               43.4    52        .2    aS    394       NA       7LI    2.0L  I3L6    "A                3L2       D _            Mg      1*  n .3    132
turaL ha  Mmaq IbSt-eaS1    1            :2.0  393.  ur9.    ..  00.9   S73i   57.   031    0.3  351.3 W13.7                      49.2            63.   319   36.1   =r.   336.
ha Edtstsii  I LStrS                   "9I  1131363  31"91   3.l    362  47.1  43*SI  4912.4  6 T  64A*                          1I1.J          4U3.   mu   29.5 2;t.   3361
1iiiS  W                                3I.2   13*   37.3  31A.1  LU3.   34R            W1.4  asL.   34V.2  af.i                 43.L9           26.7   341.4    19.5   42.S   1IL8
Tal Eat SBoce                             13.5    mm.: 11 .-     '.5.S   sl.3   37.4   VLI   95.4   M.    03.0                    96.             Ia!  169a.   19 332.9   9la    21 3L
Pnacupul                                 76.9    14.1 .Ll         2.3    .      33.L    S=      4117.o   277.1   E7.e            5362            O  L *   16.4   679.4   dLs   527.2
a6tarrst Ia"sts                         33.6    42.3   302.    374.7   23.7   931.4   391.3  4113.8   432.    964IA             456.            4112   51.2   224. 21S    193.9
hW Sr5. lbt. icnlasaim  WI                9*.1    1.2    31.3   :L3    :LI       2W       .l2  1L        3.       19.3            1.40            31.2     7.1   .24.2     .2   314.
btrapt lfer kl ale   -  3m                  LO      1.5     7.7    L.       LI      3.      3.      LZ    IL.5    L2.
Offical                                    .i    469      5.      -       -                               .
Pn:n1                                     6.2     .a      6.3     -       .       .       .               .
A.rwiiturt, of na luow-                    IL3     Si.    3.       112 9J   3.5    L.       It?    11.1   13_.      7.J
EfEacuau                                 3L3.    1.9    18.1      -       .       .        .      .       .       _
hitsd                                      LI     4.7      9.1    -       _       _       _       _        _      _
3S1 gr S am trtil fl        ,las d V  -Z  1111t1 BaIn".1s"I  Imt * utae
S  tum   fl    o miIWO Sne  ma U Sall:3.aqslc
lie  uaut 44 31  'rn_Saiq S1,
at1so of lamitatig
Priecd do  etus [V                                                                                91.4 s -i
Stric StrslvW .5 %K lagagau9.
Istauu wt _nv  Uthm h  ,r                                                                         St..



- 36 -                          Annex II
Page 1 of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Cote d'Ivoire
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1986)
US$ million
Loan or       Fiscal                                       Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower         Purpose                Bank    IDA  ULdisbursed
One credit fully disbursed                                     -     7.50
Thirty-eight loans fully disbursed                           878.7   -
1698-IVC      1979    Cote d'Ivoire  Tourism II               14.2   -          3.28
1777-IVC      1980   C^ote d'Ivoire  Education  IIT           16.0   -           1.43
1827-IVC      1980    C6te d'Ivoire  Rural Development         9.4   -          5.16
1896-IVC      1981    EECI            Power                   33.0   -          15.26
1914-IVC      1981    Cote d'Ivoire Highway Sector I         100.0   -          3.48
2048-IVC      1982    Cote d'Ivoire  Urban Development II   51.0   -            12.37
2059-IVC      1982    Cote d'Ivoire  Technical Assistance   16.0   -            6.29
2130-rVC      1982    Cote d'Ivoire  Water Supply II          43.0   -          19.41
2167-IVC      1982    Cote d'Ivoire  Center West              13.0   -          8.59
2323-IVC      1983    Cote d'Ivoire  Rubber IV                32.2   -          16.36
2496-IVC      1985    Co_e d'Ivoire  Forestry II              31.3   -         27.63
2581-IVC      1985    Cote d'Ivoire Highway Sector II        102.0   -         72.30
2617-IVC      1986    Cote d'Ivoire  IDF                      30.0   -         30.00
2619-IVC      1986    Cote d'Ivoire  Health/Demography        22.2   -         20.90
2627-IVC      1986    Cote d'Ivoire  Oil Palm V               13.4   -         12.99
2696-IVC      1986    C^te d'Ivoire  Telecomm. II             24.50  -         24.50
2711-IVC      1986    Cote d'Ivoire  SAL III                 250.00  -        250.00
Total                               1,679.9   7.50      529.95
Of which has been repaid              198.1   0.26        -
Total now outstmding                1,481.8   7.24
Amount sold                      5.1
of which has been repaid         5.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA              1,481.8   7.24
Total Undisbursed                                      0.00     529.95



37 -                         Annex II
Page 2 of 3
B. Statement of Regional Bank Loans and Credits to C6te d'Ivoire
and Other West African Countries
US$ million
Loan or       Fiscal                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower        Purpose               Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1295-WAF      1976    CINAO          Regional Clinker       49.5   -           0.00
1490-ICUV     1978   RAN             Regicnal Railway       23.0   -           0.00
969-WAF      1980    BOAD           Project Preparation     -      3.0        1.43
2242-WAF      1983   BOAD            Regional Development    6.1   -           5.55
1331-WAF      1983    BOAD           Regional Development    -    14.0        11.30 1/
SDR            US$
10.49   e      11.30
13.00          14.00
1/  This Credit is denominated in Special Drawing Rights. The figures in
this table have been converted into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate
prevailing at the time of Credit negotiations.



- 38 -                         Annex II
Page 3 of 3
C. Statement of IFC Investments
Outstanding Commitment
Type of                      US $ Million
Year    Obligor                        Business               Loan     Equity     Total
1965-   Banque Ivoirlenne de           Development            -         0.42      0.42
1978   DEveloppeuent Industriel        Finance
1977    Ets. R. Gonfreville, S.A.      Textiles and           -         0.88      0.88
Fibers
1980   Mauling du Sud-Ouest            Food and Food          2.90      0.41      3.31
Processing
1980    Socitg Ivoirienne d'Engrais   Fertilizers            4.16      1.27      5.43
1986    Ets. R. Confreville S.A.       Textiles and Fibers   7.99       -         -
Total Gross Commitments                              15.60      2.98     10.04



- 39 -
ARNM III
Page 1 of 1
COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of ey' Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: one year and a half
(b) Project prepared by: Ministry of Public Works, Construction,
Posts and Telecoumnications, financed
under the TA project (Loan 2059),
Presidency of Republic (Direction et
Controle des Grands Travaux. DCGTX)
5c) Date of first Bank mission to consider
the project:                                   October 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:         June 1985
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:             January 1987
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                 June 30, 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Condition of Effectiveness: the CAA/CTU bas been established under
statutes and operating procedures aatisfactory to the Bank, and a
manager (qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank) has
been appointed (para 62).
Condition of Disbursement: the CAA/CdK has been established vith an
initial deposit of CPAP 175,000,000 under statutes and operating
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, a manager (qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank) has been appolnted for the
CA&/CdK (para 54), and the Circular (satisfactory to the Bank) has
been issued to participating banks (para 56).



-40-
COTE O'IVOI#E                                                    ANNEX IV
Page I of I
TIIID UW      PIT
Procurement Arrammti
(rN  Share in Parmthnes)
lUSS dlli enupivalnt)
PrKoreenwt kthod               Total
I-           Value Of
Category                           IO            LC         Others    Prwornot
a. Coe4te de Nbilintion
Construction costs                        154.2                      154.2
137.8)                    137.1)
Technical asistace                                       1.6          1.6
(1.2)        (1.21
kther fic.eqzipmnt)                         0.2          0.7          0.9
(0.11        (0.0)        (0.11
Setatal A                    0.0        154.4          2.2         156.6
0.0        137.9)         1.2)        (39.1)
3. Land  welopmt Prorn
Land denelopet                             46.6                      46.6
(14.1)                    (14.1)
TechniCal assistae                                       0.8          0.6
40.6)        (0.61
Other   ntc.equipumnt)                      0.2          4.2          4.4
(0.12        (0.01        (0.11
s-total 3                    0.0         46.8          5.1         51.9
0.0        414.2)        (0.1)        (14.9)
C. Transport
Civil Morks                  14.2         72.7                       L.9
(10.u1       (54.6)                    (65.3)
Traffic Light mintenance                   1.                          . 19
(0.9)                     (0.9)
Subtotal C                  14.2         74.6          0.0          .7
(10.61       155.41         0.0        (61.11
3. STUDIES 6 TRAININS
Studis                                                 5.9          5.9
(5.0)        (5.0)
Training                                               0.5          0.5
(0.41        (0.A1
Pilot rrojct                                           0.6          0.6
(0.1)        (0.61
Subtotal 3                   0.0          0.0          7.0          7.0
0.0          0.0         (6.0)        (6.01
Grand total                 14.2        273.7         14.3        304.2
(10.61      (107.6)        (7.9)      (12L01
I of 1311) finacing         75.0T        39.0!        54.71        41.41
Totals may not add up due to  rounding



Tonio            TINGRE        -         SO  0.
o  *  f X  ._1   -  j!                ] <_.                     ~~~~~~B U R K I N A
r         /                                           t Tins   /t to 0bo Diouihuo   F AS 0
*   )Meninie)                                  M'Bengu. j, -      
S   k  }                     y            \   ~~~~~~~~~~~Ouoaolodogour                        _ 
*    1           ,    ~~~~Mod,nni                                                    L%J          
fi KESSEDOUGOU
_          * BIANNEOUMKORH
T,~t 19=g                                   g    Sirasso\                        
UI N E A                                                               ouo             rrr 
t    J   ~   \X  Nial orennondoupo  )      h
Kr fni(
' s         .-:   >      \               \              f   > (DMB~~~~~~~~~~~~AKMAA
TOU-oA 6   
T. N'Zk;r.e              R ANKOUMA X\                        C/\
Doaukro
_  A% - O *     a), OUAF  *                            Bocr-a        -
-   r    aai~~u ;oukr
Dkoui
AUM                                        ONGOuABENG C
- \ %) a,~---           -  -.                       O                                                lf oup
v \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*s reW                                  T -     Rubme O0    f     f_ *AD~
L~~~~~'A,                                            Idu                                           GB EVRILIn
(  t \ 5 ;,, ) / ) '} ~~~~~~DIBOK                               Kotob
*  i ~~~~~~~~ \   <  n^Peoro                                        B &                 11.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17 MillCon)
Guinea~N U
0~~~~~~~~~~6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 
-:,-/5,- --0--:;    -:                                      G  u i n e c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:   -  9    _  -                                     6~~~~~~~G
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uii
:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~N ,k



I BRD 19182
C6TE D'IVOIRE
R K I N A                                              THIRD URBAN PROJECT
FASO                                                  URBAN POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
To Ca.godougou    1                                                                           10-
URBAN POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
OF TOWNS OVER 10.000.
BO 8UNA  !                      
-Bo YrAr                       j  ,     L         50.000
-25,000
EXPRESSWAY
-   % >,PAVED ROADS
)                         - \ _ t  EARTH AND GRAVEL ROADS
-t4 \  \i IRAILROADS
4   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
\OUDOUKOU *       '                          t   OTHER AIRPORTS
BOUDOUK                                         ;FRT                                      W
' f >\ ..             -{ rTo Kumos,  ................. >~ RIVERS
- NATIONAL CAPITAL
@   DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
TS                                   0 I    OTHER TOWNS
- . - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,tAnondo  \   ~Agnibilelru koouos
Dooukro           -            '
A BEN<iouio                      .!
* Ibt %>;nohj9: !G H, 'A N A 1
\  GOUANOU   Y;,-            ()
Aff'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
X _/  . i!FADZO~PE       
60-
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f. - .-0 - 1 '                                                               6
rranCa.. _v _d. nn*'!  -=d
m { ~~~~~~~~~~~~-n -                                           n        . ;!e &   C ---__ _
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..0   .0   C' -    '~                                     -BOI S    S nd    0
IXS                                                                S~^leL )~; L d_ MAURITANIA ;
/ MALI
SENEGAL    j
GINEA.('                         BURKCINA
GUI2NEAr *~C6E*
(1.7 Million)                                                              b                       _ 5         *f
D'IVOIRE   *GHANA o
0   20 40  60  80  100 120
I--------:......I        _                                      -          .  Abidlu
K1LOMET3S     -                                                            -     '
MARCH  1916



::0.,
a    -         \     ) t/1-I- -- l) 
0    lo iI!0iSilxl^I!lilto9t :|<l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.  i'
.   .....   ....  -  
CL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 1
13L            4)       ..........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  ~
-I    ~ ~ ~ ~~                        -. &~~~C
2D ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Zf
VIN
z    L



IBRD  1S
COTE D' IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
GREATER ABIDJAN AREA
LOCATION OF MAJOR PROJECT COMPONENTS
Third Urbon Project              First and Seond Urban Projects (Completed)
Rood Construcrion               Road Construction
TraFFic Improvement             Troffic Improvement
/ :. E:-.:  LaLnd Development               Trunk Sewer
/  \    ::-- INeighborhood Upgroding/Sites ond Services
A     Community Focilities
-U - Urbn Areas
4,.                          ~~~~~~~~Major Roads and Streets
-4--1---I-Railway
- - - -Municipal Boundaries
-;    _. _.    _                                                             - J- - International Boundaries
Bonoumin-
'  BINGERVILLE
Akauedo 
-~ ~ ~~7
4.
'- St
;d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - ..d..                                                                                                   .
_     s~~~~~~~~~-
N                                                                     47
'-                                                                                              4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L -,
~~..
GRAND-               t
MAARCH ll>



