Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5884-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
March 2, 1987
Western Africa Projects Department
Water Supply and Urban Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be -used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVLLENTS
Currency Unit                          CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                       =         CPAF 320
WEIGHTS AND HEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACA            - Agence de Cooperation et d'AmPnageuent
BCEAO          - Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de L'Ouest
BIAO           - Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BICICI         - Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie
CSte d'Ivoire
BICT           - Banque Ivoirienne pour la Construction et les Travaux
BIDI           - Banque Ivoirienme pour le Developpement Industriel
BNDA           - Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole
BNEC           - Banque Nationale d'Epargue et de Credit
BSIE           - Budget Speial d'Investissement et d'Equipement
CAA            - Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE           - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCI            - Credit Cote d'Ivoire
CdM            - Compte de Mobilisation
CIFIM          - Credit Ivoirien pour le Financement de l'Immobilier
CNPS           - Caisse Natiorale de Prevoyance Sociale
COFINCI        - Compagnie Financiere de C$te d'Ivoire
CTU            - Coupte des Terrains Urbains
DCGTX          - Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux
ENSTP          - Ecole Nationale Superieure des Travaux Publics
EPIC           - Entreprise Publique a Caractare ladustriel et Commercial
FSE            - Fonds de Soutien de l'Habitat
MCU            - Ministry of Construction and Urbanism
MB             - Ministry of Budget
NEF            - Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPWCPT         - Former Ministry of Public Works, Construction, Posts, and
Telecommunications
MPWT           - Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
SETU           - Societe d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains
SIB            - Societe Ivoirienne de Banques
SICOGI         - Societe Ivoirienne de Construction et Gestion Immobiliare
SGBCI          - Societe Generale de Banques de Cote d'Ivoire
SOGEFIUA       - Societe de Gestion Financiere de l'Habitat
SOTRA          - Societe des Transports AbidjanAis
TEP            - Taux d'Escompte Preferentiel
UMOA           - Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine
USAID - HG     - United States Agency for International Development -
Housing Guarantee Program
VAT            - Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
Cote d'Ivoire                   : January 1 - December 31
CAA/CdM                         : October 1 - September 30
CAA/CTU                         : October I - September 30



FOR OFFIAL USE ONLY
COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY    ...    *.............................   i
I.   THE URBAN SETTING   .......    .............................  1
A.   Urban Development Trends   .......................       1
B.   The Housing Sector   ......   ........................   2
C.   Urban Transport   .......   ....................... .    5
D.   Experience with Bank Lending   ....     ................  6
E.   Rationale for Bank Involvement   .............. ....     7
II.  THE PROJECT  .................       ......                   7
A.   Project Preparation    ...   .........................   7
B    Project Description    ......   ..................       7
C.   The Housing Finance Component    ................. .     8
D.   The Land Servicing Component    ........... ........    11
E.   The Transport Component    ............... .........    12
F.   Studies, Training, and Pilot Program    ...........     13
G.   Supervision and Monitoring   ...     ...................  14
H.   Project Costs and Financing   ....... . . . . . .  .    14
I.   Procurement  ..........     ...........................  16
J.   Disbursements ....................................      17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Cote d'Ivoire in June 1985.   The mi8sion members were
Messrs. C. Delapierre (Mission Leader). F. Amiot (Economist),
R. Barrett (Traffic Engineer, Consultant), P. Bonnet (Infrastructure
Engineer, Consultant), and C. Chambard (Financial Analyst, Consultant).
Ms. C. Tager (Economist), Ms. A. Artaza, (Computer Specialist), and
Mr. H. Schulte (Transport Economist, Consultant) participated in the
project analysis. The report was subsequently revised following a mission
in October 1986. composed of Messrs. C. Delapierre and F. Amiot. The
report was processed by Ms. K. Roffe.
This document si arestced distbution and may be ued by reipients only in the performance
of dick officalidudmItislcontents may not othenrwisebe disclosed wthout World Bank authorizati



Table of Contents (continued)                                     Pa
K.   Audits and Reportlig   ......,..........  g.....        17
L.   Project Justification   ... 0..0.e.o...... .........    18
M.   Financial Analysis      .     .. ....... e...........  ,  19
N.   Economic Analysis   .............ee.........            21
0.   Benefits and Risks   ..........................         22
III. AI3REEMENS REACHED AND RECOHMENDATIONS    ..........         23
1    Supply and Demand for Housing Loans
2-1 Detailed Project Description
A. The Housing Finance Component
B. The Land Development Program
C. The Transport Program
2-2 Project Costs and Financing
2-3 The Banking System
2-4 -Procurement Arrangements
2-5 Disbursement Schedule
2-6 Financial Analysis
A. Compte de Mobilisation
B. Land Development Program
2-7  Economic Analysis
A. 'r-nd Development Program
B. Transport Program
3    Documents Contained in Project File
MAPS
IBRD 19182  C^te d'Ivoire Main Urban Centers and Population
IBIRD 19183 Greater Abidjan Area



COTE D'XVOIRE
TIRD URBN PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borroer:              Republic of CMte d'Ivoire.
Isteruediaries:     The CaLsse Autonome d'Amortissement (CMA), through
the Coapte de Nobilisation (CAM/CdN). the Compte des
Terrains Urbains (CAA/CTU), and the comercial banks
customarily involved in the housing sector.
Benef-iciaris:        Low- md middsi-Income households.
Amotmt:               US$126 zilltion.
Terns:                Interest at the standa-d variable rates plus
standard comnituent. Amortization over 20 years
including 5 years of grace.
Onlendlnng Terms:     Proceeds of the Bank loan for the purpose of the
housing fiance and land servicing components   il
be onlent on the same terms as the Bank loan, as
follows: (a) US$37.8 million or 30% of the loan
amount to the C&A/CdK for financing housing loans
granted by comercial banks and financial
institutions to households at an adjustable rate (9Z
per annum according to the current BCE&O interest
rate regulations),. %uith a maturity averaging
15 years; and (b) US$14.1 million or 1 of the loan
amount to the CAA/CTU to help establish a revolving
fuad to finance land development programs.
Project Description: The proposed project will consist of:
(a) establishment of a housing finance facility
(CAA/CdM) which will provide long-term social
housing finance (in the past made available
through public sector housing programs), by
refinaztcing housing loans made by commercial
banks and thus encourage shifting the main
responsibility for housing finance to the
private sector. Over the project period, it is
expected that about 7,000 households would
purchase dwelilngs through the CAA/CdN
facility;
(b) provision of basic infrastructure to
rehabilitate about 750 ha of land for housing
development. Some 150 ha will be developed
annually, mostly in Abidjan Nord and In the
Djibi area, providing about 18,500 new plots to



be sold through private real estate developers.
Funds required for land servicing and obtained
from plot sales will be channelled through the
CAM/CTU;
(c) continuation of transport improvement programs
focusing on rehabilitation and maintenance of
streets and pedestrian facilities in high-
density communities, and selected improvements
to road infrastructure and traffic manAgement
systems throughout Abidjan; and
(d) studies, training, and a pilot program
including the following: preparation of a
Transport Plan for Greater Abidjan to guide
investment over the period 1990/2000;
envirommental protection study and topographic
study for Greater Abidjan; study of rural/
urban development issues in CSte d'Ivoire;
training for transport economics; and a pilot
program to stimulate access of the informal
sector to commercial bank credit with
assistance from Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGOs).
Project Benefits:     The proposed project is expected to yield
substantial benefits to Cote d'Ivoire. First, by
making a package of financial and technical
assistance available to the urban sector, the
project would facilitate the implementation of the
Government's Structural Adjustment Program with
regard to the housing sector. Second, the funds
provided under the project for the purpose of the
CAAJCdM would make available long-term resources
needed by commercial banks to finance housing loans.
In addition, the proposed onlending mechanism for
channelling the funds through the CAA/CdK to the
banking system, as a whole, would permit a gradual
expansion in the number of beneficiaries having
access to commercial credit. Third, the funds
provided for the purpose of the Compte des Terrains
Urbains (CA&ICTU) would allow CTU to self-finance
land servicing projects without Treasury subsidy.
Fourth, the transport component would maximize the
use of existing infrastructure through traffic
management measures and maintenance programs which
should significantly reduce transport costs.
Project Risks:        The Compte de Mobilisation is designed to chart the
way for future lending to social housing through the
banking system as a whole rather than through a



specialized bank. The relative unfamiliarity of the
Ivorian banking system with financial intermediary
procedures is considered a risk to the project. An
added risk is that loan demand from homeowners may
not Waterialize as rapidly as expected, partly due
to current economic conditions and partly on account
of the uncertain response of commercial banks.
These risks are mitigated by including technical
assistance to the CAA/CdK, and by motivating
commercial banks to participate in the housing loan
component through a spread of 3Z. along with
ref inancing facilities. The proposed subloan aount
has been established with these risks in mind; even
under currently depressed levels, if current trends
continue, CdM refinancing would reach only about 30S
of the demand for term credit estimated for the last
year of the project period.



- iv -
Estimated Prolect Costs:
Local   Foreign    Total
USS mllion-
Housing Loans
(Compte de Mobilisation)          97.8    38.5      136.3
Land Servicing                    21.2     19.6       40.8
Transport Program                 28.7     43.1       71.8
Training, Studies, & Others        2.3      3.5        5.8
Total Base Cost              150.0   104.7      254.7
Physical Contingencies             3.4     4.3         7.7
Price Contingencies                16.4    25.5       41.9
Total Project Cost           169.7   134.5      304.2
Of which Taxes                    28.5     0.0        28.5
Total Project Cost
Net of Taxes                141.2    134.5      275.7
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign    Total
US$ million-
IBRD                               -      126.0      126.0
Government Funds                  62.2     -          62.2
Private Funds                     106.0    -         106.0
Other (International)              1.5     8.5        10.0
Total                        169.7   134.5      304.2
Note:  Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Estimated Disbursements:
FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92
US$ million
Annual               10.0   18.9   25.2   25.2    34.0    12.7
Cumulative           10.0   23.9   54.1    79.3   113.3  126.0
Economic Rate of Return: Land development program 28.5Z; transport
program (without time savings) ranging between
10% and 27% for the subcomponents.
Estimated Project Closing Date: December 1992
Maps:  IBRD 19182 Cote d'Ivoire Main Urban Centers and Population
IBRD 19183 Greater Abidjan Area
WAPWU
February 1987



COTE DB' IVOIn
THIR URBAN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE URBAN SETTING
A. Urban Development Trends
1.01      The Governvent, with IW and Bank support, adopted in 1983/84 a
stringent financial recovery and stabilization program, aimed at reducing
the imbalances in public sector fintnces and external accounts. Tvo Bbak
structural adjustment loans supported the implementation of a mediu-term
program of reforms aimed at improving the management of public finance,
inwestment and enterprise, and the policies and institutions in the
agricultural,* industrial, education, and housing sectors.
1.02      Improved management of urban growth. in Abidjan in particular, is
important to support the program of reforms, since urban areas account for
a major share of GDP; in 1983, about 63Z of the GDP was urban-based.
Abidjan itself accounting for 47Z of the GDP (value added). Urban industry
is largely agro-related and the main regions, in terms of agricultural
production, are the Center and South, where the majority of urban
population growth has taken place and is expected in the future. Econodic
activities located in Abidjan will continue to dominate the Ivorian
economy.
1.03      Rapid urban growth has been one of the most visible consequences
of the country's economic development, but is expected to slow down through
the end of the decade to a rate estimated at 6.2% a year. In 1985, the
natfonal population was estimated to be 9.7 million (growth rate 3.5Z per
anmu). of which 4.2 million or 43% was urban. About 1.7 million
inhabitants, or 40% of the total urbau population, are concentrated In
Greater Abidjan. Projecting current trends, taklng into account the
country's present economic slowdown, the national population would reach
11.5 million in 1990, of which almost 50Z or 5.7 million wonld be urban.
The population of Abidjan would reach about 2.3 million or about the sme
share of total urban population as in 1985.
1.04      Between 1955 and 1980, Abidjan grew at 11.5Z per annum. During
this period, Government invested heavily in the provision of housing.
financing the construction of some 72,000 highly subsidized housing units
(about 25Z of the Abidjan housing stock) through two public agencies,
Societe Ivoirienne de Construction et Gestion Immobiliare (SICOGI) and
Societl de Gestion Finacilare de 1'Habitat (SOGEFIHA). CBte d'Ivoixe also
embarked on costly programs of land development, sewerage, and public
transportation. Because of excessively high standards and high costs,
these investments not only excluded the bulk of the low-income population
in need of shelter, but also contributed to heavy recurrent public sector
deficits which reached alarming proportions by the late seventies and early
eIghties. The Ten-Year Develovment Study (covering the period 1980-90),



-2-
financed under the First Urban Project (Loans 1347/1348T of December 1976),
was the first attempt to more efficiently plan for and anllocate urban
investments for the Greater Abidjan area (including Dabou, Anyama,
Bingerville. and Grand Bass=). The Strategy Study for secondary cities,
financed under the Second Urban Project (Loan 2048-IVC of August 1981),
attempted to extend this approach nationwide. Following actions recomnended
in these two Bank-financed studies, Government decided to shift the burden
of housing financing to the private sector and to make its intervention
more efficient in providing and enabling a framework in vhich the private
sector can improve its performance.
B. The Housing Sector
1.05      Two housing corporations. SOGEFIHA and SICOGI, concentrated on
financing and the construction of low- and middle-income housing subsidized
by the Treasury. In addition, a land development agency: Societe
d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains (SETU) serviced and sold plots on account
of the state, and a public housing fund: Fonds de Soutien de l'Habitat
(FSH) provided financing with funds obtained mostly through a payroll tax.
There are also four major commercial banks, two development banks, and one
deferred credit corporation involved in housing finance. Revitalization of
the housing market and development of better financing and refinancing
mechanisms in order to give new strata of the population access to credit
are considered as priorities in the Government's program of reforms.
1.06      SOGEFIHA was created In 1963 as a state-owned company and turned
into a public corporation (EPIC), under the control of the Ministry of
Construction and urbanism. Having built 36,037 units by 1984, SOGEFIHA
managed 25,186 units in Abidjan and 2,602 in the rest of the country;
construction of new units vas stopped in 1979. At the end of 1985,
SOGEFIHA possessed total assets amounting to CFAF 64.5 billion, and had
accumulated a Government guaranteed term debt of CFAF 72.0 billion which it
will take until 1997 to be reimbursed. Moreover, poor control of
construction costs and financal nAgement left SOGEFIRA with a large
shortfall in its cashflow. The Government, which financed these cash
shortfalls through annual subsidies, decided to liquidate SOGEFIHA by
selling off its housing units, on the basis of a plan approved by the Bank
in accordance with requirements under the Second Stru-tural Adjustment Loan
(SAL II, Loan 2332 of June 1983). Progress with the implementation of this
liquidation plan is satisfactory. On January 1987, close to 11,000 (of a
total of 17,000) units were sold to the private sector.
1.07      SICOGI, a semi-public company under the control of the Ministry
of Construction and Urbanism, was created in 1965 from the merger of two
earlier agencies, and now has a staff of 1,215. While Government is the
majority shareholder (53.64Z). the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCX), the Caisse des DFp-ots (France) and various Ivorian
institutions, hold the rest of the capital. SICOGI has generally been
managed more efficiently than SOGEFDIA. At the end of 1982, SICOGI had
built 35,752 units, of vhich 31,372 are still under SICOGIts management,
mostly rental units in Abidjan. With concessional CCCE money (3-1/2X per



annum, 20 years), SICOGI was able to maintain good control over its
operations until 1979, despite a freeze in unit rent increases. However,
since 1979, SICOGI has been facing difficulties with the phasing out of
external finsncing, the cancellation of Government leases, and Government
pressure to transform rental programs into lease-purchase at terms below
market value. SICOGI is now seeking to diversify the Income mix of its
operations by increasingly emphasizing lease-purchase for high-income
units.
1.08      Created in 1971 as a state-owned company with an equity of
CFAP 200 million, SETU was turned into an EPIC under the control of the
Ministry of Construction and Urbanism (MCU) and now has a staff of
154 persons. SETU serviced about 2,034 ha of land in Abidjan, of which
575 ha for individual plots (5,705), 736 ha for housing companies (SICOGI,
SOGEFIHA), 24 ha for industrial or commercial purposes, and 242 ha for
community facilities. The balance (457 ha) includes street and other
networks. The total amount invested in land development, from 1973 to
1983, was about CFAF 25 billion, SETU was also the executing agency of the
upgrading component for the First Urban Project, completed satisfactorily
in November 1983, at a final cost of CFAF 7.7 billion, and is the executing
agency for the two pilot operations in secondary cities (Daloa and Korhogo)
financed by the Second Urban Project, and of a USAID program which
comprises urban works in 13 secondary centers. These works, which are near
completion, are expected to have a value of about CFAF 9.1 billion.
Despite relatively good technical performance, SETU has experienced two
major interrelated difficulties: (a) inadequate financial management
resulting in short-term debts to banks and contractors of CFAF 11.8 billion
at the end of 1985, unpaid taxes to the Treasury, and debts to the National
Pension Fund (CNPS); and (b) inadequate commercial and recovery policies
leading to arrears estimated at CFAF 3.6 billion at the end of 1985.
Although a program of reforms was identified and partly implemented in
1986, the Government after having studied ways to financially restructure
SETU, * Bcided to progressively liquidate the agency. Its land servicing
function would be replaced by the opening of a Compte des Terrains UrbAin
(CTU) at CAA, whose resources would consist of external borrowings and
revenues from plot sales to finance land development. Technical studies,
procurement, and supervision of works would be done by the Direction et
Controle des Grands Travaux (DCGTX), and the marketing and sales of
serviced plots by private real estate agencies.
1.09      Although legally created in June 1984, FSH was established de
facto in 1969, funded by a tax levied on all payrolls which ensures
steadily growing resources. Tax revenues rose from CFAF 1.3 billion in
1969 to CFAF 5 billion in 1975, and to about CFAF 12 billion in 1984. Most
of these funds have been disbursed for infrastructure development and
housing construction grants to SOGEFIHA and SICOGI. Since 1976, a major
share of FSH resources (CFAF 26.4 billton or 82%) has been spent to pay
part of SOGEFIHA's debt service. FSE, as defined in the 1984 Decree, has
the objective of financing social and low-cost housing programs througn
reduction in interest rates, refinancing of housing loans, participation in
construction of infrastructure and land compensation, subsidizing speciflc



-4-
hor.sing programs, granting of working capital and cash for enterprises or
carpanies which undertake social programs, and equity participation in such
enterprises. The FSH is managed by a comittee chaired by the Minister of
Economy and Finance. Total Government funds earmarked for the housing
so.cor during the 1981-84 period amounted to CFAF 35 billion, of which
32 billion were funded through FSH. Since much of this was spent to pay
for part of SOGEFIHA's debt service, in fact only CFAF 2.5 billion were
allocated to new housing construction programs, implemented by SICOGI. As
a result, the actual share of public finances in housing construction has
been negligible during the last five years, despite the fact that the
1981-84 National Plan had forecast the start-up of 4,000 new units with PSR
participation per year, which corresponds to about one-third of the
national demand. It is the intention of the Government to progressively
reduce the role of the FSE by shifting finance for housing from the publikc
to the private sector.
1.10      The Banking Sector. Thus far, participation in housing finance
by the four major commercial banks (mostly affiliates of large
international banking companies) and the two development banks (one of
which is a former housing parastatal bank created in 1976 and privatized in
1979), has been l1mited and sharply decreased during the last few years.
Due to the decline in economic activity in Cote d'Ivoire and the reluctance
of the banks to provide long-term commercial finance for housing, the share
of medium- and long-term credit for housing in the banks' portfolio
decreased from CFAF 15.6 billion or 1.75% of their total credit outstanding
in 1981 to CFAF 6.8 billion or 0.8Z in 1985. In June 1984, total credit
outstanding for housing, with rediscount facilities, amounted to
CFAF 8.2 billion, of which less than half could be related to the social
sector (construction and plot costing less than CFAF 15 million). This
last estimate suggests that commercial banks' involvement In low-cost
housing vas on the order of 600 units per year (Annex 1). To this must be
added the activity of the Credit Ivoirien pour le Financement de
l'Immobilier (CIFI!). This deferred credit corporation has made about
1,000 loans amounting to CFAF 11 billion since its establishment in 1978,
or 180 loans per year.
1.11      Existing information on the structure of income distribution and
the decline in household incomes since 1978 underlines the urgency of a
far-reaching reorientation of the housing sector and its financing to
promote homeownership among the lower income popu'ation. Based on
information provided by household surveys, dating from 1983 and 1985, two
significant features of Abidjan's housing and population patterns affect
housing demand: (a) nearly 80% of all residents are renters or leasers;
and (b) non-Ivorians constitute about 50% of Abidjan's population, with
most of them falling below the median income level (CFAF 108.500 per
month). While rental income from luxury and higher quality housing has
declined by about 30Z since 1983, due to economic recession, lower salaries
and the departure of foreign technicians, the demand for housing within a
price ranging from CFAF 3 to 15 million, has remained stable.



1.12      As part of SAL II, the Gover-iient redefined its housing policy
objectives to: (a) reduce public expenditures and subsidies; (b) improve
the effectiveness of Government's intervention in the sector; and
(c) increase the mobilization of private savings and the role of the
private sector in the formal housing warket. One of the main Government
intentions was to create a refinancinLg facility for housing finance to
shift the responsibilities for housirng finance from the public to the
private sector (i.e., a major deviation from the former policy which
supported housing finance through SOGEFIHA, para 1.06) and remove a key
constraint to the availability of long-term credit for private sector
housing finance. External and domestic resources (private and
institutional savings) would be mobilized, and eligible commercial banks
would be allowed to refinance housing loans for up to 20 years instead of
10 years under the existing Central Bank regulations. The account would
carry the refinanced loans during the first years and, thereafter, the
commercial banks would rediscount them at the Central Bank whose
regulations permit rediscounting of loans with a maximum of ten years
maturity only. (To amend Central Bank regulations in order to lengthen the
maturity period from, for example, 10 to 15 years was not considered
feasible by the Government because this would require a general agreement
with the UNOA monetary zone.) To stimulate the private savings, the
account would also carry loans issued by deferred credit corporations.
These policies have now been adopted and made part of the project.
C. Urban Transport
1.13      The Government's investments in Abidjan's urban transport
infrastructure have been substantial over the last few years. Over the
1976-85 period. with Bank support, a number of major projects were
implemented, including the East-West Highway, the Route du Banco, and
improvements to critical intersections.
1.14      As a result, the overall transport situation in Abidjan is
characterized by a well-developed, basic road infrastructure which is
generally in very good condition, and a relatively efficient public
transport system which covers a wide area of the city. Traffic congestion
is limited to short periods of the day at a few critical intersections.
However, access to low-income areas off the Central Business District
(Plateau) is still a major problem, and little attempt has been made to
provide satisfactory access for public transport or public cleansing
vehicles. The road networks in these areas are unstructured and unpaved.
The road accident situation also continues to give rise to concern.
1.15      Abidjan's growth in terms of population and geographic expansion
has continued at a slower pace in recent years, among others as a result of
the economic and financial crisis experienced by Cote d'Ivoire over the
1980-84 period. Available statistics show that urban traffic reached a
peak in 1980 and has been decreasing by an average annual rate of about 4Z
through 1984. The number of new vehicles registered each year in Cote
d'Ivoire decreased by 54Z over the period 1980-1984. The decrease was most
significant in the caamercial vehicle category. The same trend is evident



-6-
from the evolution of the operations of SOTRA (Societe des Transports
Abidjanais), the parastatal bus company providing about 75% or
800,000 daily trips, of all public paEsenger transport movements in
Abidjan. In 1984, SOTRA transported close to 7% less passengers than in
1981, when its operations peaked both in terms of the size of the bus
fleet, total passengers transported, and bus kilometers produced. More
recent data suggest that the decline in the number of passengers has halted
and the number of passengers transported has stabilized. On the financial
side, SOTRA, which concluded a performance contract with the Government
based on the medium-term financial strategy study financed under the Second
Urban Project, has drastically improved its p=rformance, resulting in
stabilizing the annual Government subsidy to about CFAF 8 billion in
current-francs (as compared to CFAF 12 billion in the past).
1.16      The near future, therefore, does not call for major new
investments to enhance Abidjan's primary transport capacity. Priority
should be given to the appropriate grid, rehabilitation, and maintenance of
the existing transport system, ensuring and improving the efficiency of
existing public transport and traffic management schemes, and selected
improvements to the road network to serve the needs of the growing
settlement areas, particularly in the suburbs. At the same time, planning
studies should be initiated for the period beyond 1990, when further
expansion of the transport system is likely to be warranted if the forecAst
resumption of moderate economic growth materializes and the city continues
to expand.
D. Experience with Bank Lending
1.17      Government's policy in the urban sector during the past decade
has been to reduce regional disparities in economic development by
improving urban infrastructure and services, and to promote the efficient
use of existing ones. Specifically, Bank Group lending has supported these
objectives through the First and Second Sewerage and Drainage Projects, the
First and Second Water Supply Projects, the First and the Second Small
Scale Enterprises Projects, an Industrial Finance and Development Project,
and the First and the Second Tourism Projects.
1.18      The First Urban Project (Loan 1347/1348T-IVC, US$44 million) was
approved in 1976 and closed in November 1983. A PPAR, dated
March 24, 1986, based upon a PCR dated June 26, 1984, noted that this
project successfully introduced lower-cost, lower-standard solutions to
public transportation and infrastructure bottlenecks and to upgrading
low-income neighborhoods in Abidjan. The project experienced some initial
delays due to slow completion of designs and decision making with regard to
urban policies and institutions requiring several changes in the scope of
the project. The experience drawn from the project contributed to the
policy reforms instituted under SAL II. The Second Urban Project
(Loan 2048-IVC, US$51 million), which was approved in 1981, focused chiefly
on improving Abidjan public transportation and traffic management and is
progressing satisfactorily.



-7-
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.19      Given the importance of the country's urban areas in the economic
recovery program, and the effective reforms in transport and upgrading
policy introduced under the First and Second Urban Projects and thereafter
in housing under SAL II (see para 1.12). the Government has requested
further Bank assistance to consolidate these gains by providing the
necessary resources to support the continued implementation of these policy
reforms.
II.  THE PROJ'CT
A. Project Preparation
2.01      The housing finance and land servicing components were identified
by the former MPWCPT, and the transport component is a continuation of
previous Bank-financed operations. The project was prepared by several
teams of experts financed under the Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 2059-IVC of 1982). The report concerning the creation of a financial
intermediary (Compte de Mobilisation) was prepared by the Agence de
Cooperation et d'kAenagement (ACA) of France in January 1984 and revised by
IDET-CEGOS (France). Preliminary operating procedures for the Compte de
Mobilisation have been prepared by the former MNWCPT and the Ministry of
Finance. A report on the rehabilitation of SETU was prepared by SCET
International (France) in December 1983 and revised in 1985 by OTUI
(France). The transport component was prepared by the former MPWCPT and by
DCGTX. The technical studies, cost estimates and financial-economic
analysis were completed in January 1986. The final preparation report
dated January 1986 was prepared under the responsibility of the DCGTX,
which subsequently (in May and September 1986) prepared supplemental
financial simulations and operating procedures for the Compte des Terrains
Urbains and for the Compte de Mobilisation.
B. Project Description
2.02      The proposed project (Annex 2-1) will comprise:
(a)  a housing finance component:  establishment of a refinancing
facility, the Compte de Mobilisation (CdM), at the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA). The mAin purpose of this
component will be to enable the commercial banks to lengthen the
term of social housing loans beyond the period during which they
are rediscountable by the Central Bank (ten years), by
authorizing them to refinance such loans with the CAA/CdM on
similar terms to reach a maturity of up to 20 years. To achieve
these goals, the CAA/CdM will be provided with long-term
resources (including the Bank loan) and with limited funding from
the Capital Expenditure Budget (BSIE). Over the project period,
about 7.000 families are expected to purchase dwellings costing



-8-
on average about US$20,000 per unit (1986 price) through the
banking system with refinancing by the Compte de Nobilisation
(Annex 2-6):
(b) a land servicing component:   servicing of 750 ha for housing
development. During the project, about 150 ha vwil be developed
annually, mostly in Abidjan Nord and the Banco area, providing
about 18,500 new plots costing on average US$2,000 per unit (1986
price). Provided the dwelling is the beneficiary's principal
residence and falls within the social housing category
(para 2.06), beneficiaries will be able to finance both land and
construction with the aid of the CAA/CdM through the banking
system (Annex 2-6);
(c) an urban transport component: continuation of transport
improvement prog.ams focusir- -iinly on rehabilitation and
maintenance of streets and pedestrian facilities in high-density
areas and traffic management systems (the core program), and
selected improvements to road infrastructure (time slice of the
1987-91 investment program) in Abidjan (Annex 2-7); and
(d)  studies, training, and a pilot program:  (i) preparation of a
transport plan for Greater Abidjan to guide investments over the
period 1990/2000; (ii) enviromental protection study for Greater
Abidjan in preparation of a third and final phase of an ongoing
program for improving sanitation in Abidjan, financed by the
Bank; (iii) study of rural/urban development issues in Cote
d' Ivoire to develop new information and insights that will help
facilitate the formulation and implementation of better
urban/rural strategies and policies; (iv) transport economic
training at the National School of Public Works (ENSTP); and
(v) pilot program with assistance from non Governmental
organizations (NGO) to facilitate access to commercial bank
credit of micro-enterprises existing in the informal sector.
The duration of the project is about five years, which will permit the
launching of the CAA/CdM and CAA/CTU until their steady state of operation
starting after 1992, and completion of the remaining components.
C. The Housing Finance Component (CAAICdM)
2.03      The CdM will be a special account located within the CAA which
will act as an executive agency. As a financial intermediary (Annex 2-6)3
the CWC2" will refimnce chiefly loans with a term of over ten years
granted by eligible commercial banks and financial institutions to
households, associations and cooperatives legally established. The
operation of the CAA/CdK will be guided and supervised by a Steerlig
Committee managed by the General Manager of the CAA, which will monitor its
performance, determine the eligibility of participating banks based on
creditworthiness criteria (para 2.05), approve loan refinancing operations
submitted by commercial and specialized banks, and be responsible for



periodically adjusting the loan refinancing terms in light of:
(a) monetary and credit policy of the authorities; (b) government housing
policy; and (c) the overall financial position of the banking sector. The
Steering Committee will be composed of (i) the Ministers of Economy and
Finance, Budget, Construction and Urbanism to ensure interministerial
agreement on housing policy and finance; (ii) the national agency of the
BCEAO to obtain BCEAO advice on the modalities of housing finance and to
ensure compatiblity with UMOA financial regulations; and
(iii) representatives of the commercial banks to obtain advice on the
operational aspects of the CAA/CdM and market potential; and (iv) the
Director General of the DCGTX. To prepare the necessary data for decision
making, the Steering Committee will be supported by a Technical Secretariat
consisting of a core group of its members. The account will be managed by
a CAA/CdK unit consisting of a manager appointed by the CAA and a financial
analyst, assisted by expatriate advisors to help start the CA&/CdK
activities. The statutes and operating procedures for the CAA/CdX have
been prepared and a manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Bank has been identified. The enactment of the statutes for the
establishment of the CAA/CdM with an initiAl deposit of CFAF 175.000,000
and the appointment of the manager will be a condition of disbursement of
this component. The possible conversion of the CdK/CAA into a housing
finance institution with juridical personality and direct borrowing
authority is to be examined during the latter part of project
implementation in light of experience gained.
2.04      Characteristics of the Housing Program to be Refinanced by the
CAA/CdM. The CAA/CdM will refinance four types of housing loans comprising
the following (number of units are indicative): (a) a low-cost housing
unit p-rogram (about 2.300 units), with an average loan amount of
CFAF 2.4 million; (b) a social housing unit program (about 2,300 units),
with an average loan amount of CFAF 3.2 million; (c) a middle-income
housing unit program (about 1,300), with nn average loan amount of
CFAF 8 milllon; and (d) a "multiple builders" program of new dwellings
(about 1,100 units) of various types such as small apartment buildings
and/or housing clusters, with an average loan amount of CFAF 12 million.
About 65Z of the total number of subloans (or 40% of total financing) would
apply to categories (a) and (b) (Annex 2-1); the whole program will satisfy
about 20Z of the creditworthy demand during the project period starting
from 10% at the beginning reaching about 30X of the demand at the end.
2.05      Eligiblity of Banks and Financial Institutions for CAA/CdM
Refinancing. Commercial and specialized banks that meet the Central Bank's
creditworthiness criteria (Annex 2-3), which are acceptable to the Bank,
will be eligible for CAA/CdM refinancing. The financial criteria currently
applied by the BCEAO relate mainly to minimum share capital (at least
CFAF 1 billion), net equity, short-term holdings, liquid assets (at least
3% of total current or short-term liabilities), Central Bank refinancing
(maximum 35% of total commitments), and exposure limits. On the basis of
these criteria only about 10 banks currently qualify. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the CAA/CdM will ensure, in consultation with
the BCEAD. that these criteria are strictly applied when refinancing



- 10 -
applications are reviewed. To ensure consistency in the quality and
content of the requests submitted by the banks, a loan appraisal form will
be prepared by the CAA/CdM in agreement with the BCEAO and made available
to the banks. Besides, the Steering Committee will issue to the banks a
detailed circular, satisfactory to the Bank and the BCEA0, describing the
terms and conditions, including the BClEAO's creditworthiness criteria, for
the utilization of the line of credit. A draft of this circular was agreed
during negotiations, and its issuance will be a condition of disbursement
of the Housing Finance component.
2.06      Beneficiary Eligibility Criteria.  In accordance with the Central
Bank regulations, the eligibility criteria will include inter alia that:
(a) individual beneficiaries or each member of an association can apply for
a house/plot only for an owner-occupied dwelling; (b) the monthly
installment of the beneficiaries does not exceed a third of the monthly
income; and (c) the total cost of the operation must be less than
CFAF 15 million. The eligibility criteria of beneficiaries (individuals
and associations) were agreed during the negotiations vith special emphasis
on equitable distribution, especially with regard to low-income families.
Depending on the total cost of the house and a housing expense/income ratio
acceptable to the banks, the monthly income of eligible beneficiaries would
vary between CFAF 62,000 (low-income group) and CFAF 290,000 (middle-income
group). Beneficiaries will be required to make a down payment equal to at
least 10% of their total 'nvestment cost (plot and dwelling).
2.07      Refinancing Mechanisms. Under subloan agreements satisfactory to
the Bank, the CAAICdM will refinance loans made by participating banks at a
rate equal to the preferential discount rate (Taux d'Escompte Preferentiel,
TEP, currently 6%) when such loans are not rediscounted by the Central
Bank. These loans will be refinanced up to a ceiling, expressed as a
percentage of the principal loan, based on a scale which takes into account
the social purpose of the loan, the household savings contribution (down
payment and savings from the deferred credit scheme) and the loan
repayment terms. The ceiling will be in the rnge of 50-90% of the amount
of the principal loan, depending on the type of loans to be refinanced.
The refinancing facilities granted by the CAA;CdM to eligible commercial
banks and financial institutions will not be taken into account in
calculating the overall rediscount ceilings set by the BCEAO. The
participating banks will onlend to the beneficiaries in conformity with the
maximum lending rate authorized by the Central Bank for the social housing
sector (i.e., the TEP + a maximum spread of 3%), with a maturity ranking
from 11 to a maximum of 20 years. They will repay the CAA/CdM in
accordance with the financing terms granted to the beneficiaries
(progressive or constant repayments) and will bear the commercial risk. in
the particular case of loans granted by banks to deferred credit
corporations (Annex 2-6), the CAA/CdM will be authorized, in agreement with
the Central Bank, to refinance such loans provided that the interest rate
complies with the BCEAO's requirements and that the maturity is not less
than 15 years. Only the lender to the deferred credit institution (a bank
or group of banks) will be allowed to refinance at the CAA/CdM. The lender
will bear the risk vis-a1-vis the deferred credit institution, while the



latter will bear the risk vis-a-vis the beneficiary. The Government Vill
bear the foreign exchange risk but cannot charge a fee in return in view of
the limitation set by the BCEAO-imposed interest ceiling under the TEP and
the need to have a spread of about 3% to provide sufficient incentive to
commercial banks to participate in the mechanism. However, the interest
rate of 9Z p.a. will be significantly above domestic and international
inflation projected for the next five years.
2.08      Mobilizing and Mixing Resources. The CAM/CdM will obtain its
funds from various sources on different terms and conditions. During the
project period these sources will include external borrowings (Bank and
USAID-HG loans) and Government participation which will be capitalized
(para 2.33). Funds will also be provided through domestic borrowing in the
form of long-term bonds issued by the CAA and purchased by institutional
investors. The mix of these resources will allow the CAAICdM to operate
under the preferential rediscount rate or TEP, but in order to limit its
recourse to Government funds, the CAA/CdM will be required to closely
monitor the key elements of its refinancing scheme, such as the refinancing
rate, ceilings and volume of loans, as well as the types of loans
refinancei. To this end the CAA/CdM will rely on computerized financial
simulations and keep close contacts with the banking sector.
D. The Land Servicing Component
2.09      To carry out the land servicing component, the Government has
decided to create a revolving fund called Compte des Terrains Urbains
located at the CAA (CAA/CTU) to replace SETU, which is being liquidated
(para 1.08). The CAA/CTU will finance civil works for land servicing and
will be replenished by revenues from plot sales. The structure of the
CAA/CTU is similar to the one for the CAA/CdM. A Steering Committee will
be created including the Ministers of Economy and Finance, Budget,
Construction and Urbanism, the Director General of the CAA and the Director
General of the DCGTX or their representatives. This Committee will control
CAA/CTU's budget and use of funds, approve land development programs,
eligibility criteria of clients and real estate agencies in charge of
serviced land commercialization, price and process sales of plots, and
advise on administrative matters. To prepare its decisions, it will be
supported by a Technical Secretariat consisting of a core group of its
-.mbers. CAA/CTU day-to-day operations will be managed by a Manager
appointed by the CAA, while DCGTX will act as the executive agency. The
land servicing program will be prepared on the basis of studies by the
DCGTX approved by MCU; works will be carried out through ccntractors
supervised by the DCGTX.
2.10      Following approval of programs, plots will be sold by real estate
agencies to beneficiaries based on selection and recommendation in
accordance with appropriate credi-torthiness criteria which were agreed
during negotiations.  Collateral of real estate developers will consist of
appropriate assets. Beneficiaries will need to provide a financing package
arranged through a commercial bank participating in the housing finance
component at the CAA/CdM or pay in cash. In establishing the price of



- 12 -
individual plots, an element of cross-subsidization may be introduced to
permit sales to low-income groups (below the 50th percentile). In
accordance with local practice, the CAAJCTU will require a down payment of
30X of the sale price before development in order to provide adequate
working capital for the CAA/CTU (para 2.35). The sale price of a plot will
be determined by the investment cost (including the cost of land
compensation, topographical studies, and civil works), operating expenses
and the cost of borrowings in the implementation of this component. In
addition, the price will include a margin to ensure the financial viability
of CAA/CTU's operations. Each development program will be governed by a
financing plan prepared by the DCGTX, and approved by MCU before works
begin, and will be designed with the objective to achieve CAA/CTU self
financing without Treasury subsidies. To the extent that a development
program is financed by the Bank loan, it will be subject to prior approval
by the Bank. The Bank loan vill only finance residential plots and some
plots for small business. The land servicing program will concentrate on
four areas o1B Greater Abidjan (including residential, commercial and
industrial sites) of which Abobo, Km 18, Djibi 1 and 2, Riviera Palmeraie
will be financed directly by the Bank loan, covering about 18,500 plots or
16% of the estimated demand of new households entering the market during
the project period.
2.11      Proceeds of the land sales will flow into the CAA/CTU revolving
fund managed by the CA&. Initial funding of the CAA,CTU will be provided
by advances from the Bank loan through the Special Account (para 2.26) and
advances from the beneficiaries. After project completion the CAKACTU will
continue to operate without subsidies with a program averaging 4,250 plots
a year. Repayment of principal and interest charges due on borrowings for
land servicing wlll be made by the CAL from this account. The
establishment of the CAA|CTU with statutes and operating procedures and the
appointment of its manager satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of
loan effectiveness.
E. The Transport Component
2.12      The transport component will comprise the following elements
(Annex 2-1): (a) a core program constituting essentially the continuation
of programs initiated under the First an': cecond Urban Projects; (b) a time
slice of investments programmed for the Government's 1987-91 urban
investment plan; and (c) the construction of a village platform for
resettling villagers from the future new Port location in South Banco. The
core program (about 40% of the transport component) will cover:
(i) rehabilitation and maintenance of streets and pedestrian facilities in
high-density areas, totalling about 50 km; and (ii) improvement of traffic
management systems throughout Abidjan, including additional safety
measures, such as improvements of and equipment for about 47 junctions and
a maintenance program of traffic signals installed under the Second Urban
Project. The selective investments of the 1987-91 urban investment plan to
be financed under the project will amount to about 60% of the transport
component and will include: Ci) road access improvements of 35 km in
Abidjan's ten municipalities; (ii) construction of new roads totalling



- 13 -
about 17.5 km; and (Uii) the improvement of the public transport system in
order to increase public accessibility and to extend services to low-income
areas or to low-income people working in residential areas. The transport
component, including studies, contracting, and supervision, will be
executed by the DCGTX.
2.13      Construction and maintenance of urban roads will be done by
contractors. A large number of wholly or partially foreign-owned
contracting firms are established in Cote d'Ivoire. The sharp decline in
civil works activity in recent years has created a highly competitive
environment among these firms. A contracting industry of local firms
engaged in civil works has developed only to a limited extent; these firms
are mainly subcontractors for the larger firms or are engaged in works of a
more limited scope.
F. Studies, Training, and Pilot Program
2.14      Under the project, studies will include the following:
(a) preparation of a transport plan for Greater Abidjan which will cover
the period up to year 2000. The main objectives of the transport plan will
be to determine the required investments and policies on the basis of a
program of investment priorities (including a possible third bridge over
the Abidjan lagoon), to develop transportation plannbing, and to promote
institutional development; (b) preparation of final design and tender
documents of works needed for the environmental protection study of the
Abidjan lagoon (sea outfall, completion of an interceptor, and
optimalization of existing facilities). The study will help prepare a
planned Abidjan Environmental Protection Project; (c) topographic studies
at 1/5000 for Greater Abidjan on an area of about 100,000 ha to update
mapping for infrastructure planning and design purposes; and (d) a case
study of rural/urban development issues in C^ote d'Ivoire to develop new
information and insights that will help facilitate the formulation and
implementation of better rural strategies and policies, with particular
at-ention to issues of resource allocation, resource mobilization, and
investments choice between urban and rural areas.
2.15      Transport economic training at the National School of Public
Works (ENSTP) will be provided to train transport experts in the fields of
transport economics and planning, management of transport firms, management
of traffic flows and road regulations. These experts will exercise their
activities either in central and local governments, in parastatal agencies
or private companies.
2.16      An experimental pilot program will be designed to facilitate
access of micro-enterprises in the informal sector of Abidjan to commercial
bank credit. It would be launched with the assistance of NGOs to explore
ways to stimulate the business potential of micro-enterprises in order to
create additional jobs and increase economic activity among the less
advantaged city dwellers. It will consist of a line of credit of about
US$500,000 equivalent which would be made available to commercial b'nks
with Government guarantee for onlending to mirco-euterprises at the



- 14 -
prevailing interest rate and without collateral. The objective is to prove
the ability of the informal sector to ensure timely loan repayment so as to
demonstrate its suitability for commercial bank credit. Experience within
existing micro-enterprises indicates good repayment records due to internal
group control.
G. Supervision and Monitoring
2.17      A monitoring system will be designed to ensure that data
essential for project execution are provided to project managers and that
design and execution of future projects wi}Ll benefit from the experience
gained through this project:
(a) Housing. The participating banks will be responsible for
supervising the loans financed by them and will be required to
submit to the CAA/CdM semiannual progress reports on loan
recovery performance. The CAA/CdM will review these reports and
make a summary available to the Bank. It would also submit, on a
quarterly basis, the summary of financial reports that is
routinely required from the banking institutions and, on an
annual basis, the final year-end accounts, including the audit
reports. The CAA/CdM will be the focal point for ensuridg
compliance with the above requirements by the banks and for
onward transmittal of the reports to the Bank. Given the
relative unfamiliarity of the CAA with financial intermediation,
technical assistance, including a senior advisor, will be
provided under the project;
(b) Land Servicing. The MCU will monitor the land servicing program,
with the assistance of DCGTX and will address the following
specific issues: (i) appropriateness of the urban services
created under the project to carry out more effective technical
and financial management, including adequacy of maintenance
standards; and (ii) the project's impact on urban development as
a whole, particularly on land tenure arrangements, property
transfers, and promotion of small contracting businesses; and
(c) Transport. DCGTX will be responsible for monitoring the traffic
components of the proposed project. Indicators to be monitored
will include: passenger and vehicle flows at several control
stations, service levels and waiting times, bus travel times and
delays, fuel consumption along specified routes, and changes in
modal split.
H. Project Costs and Financing
2.18      Total project costs, net of taxes (US$28.5 million), amount to
US$275.7 million (CFAF 88.2 billion), of which US$134.5 million
(CFAF 43 billion) or 48.8% are foreign exchange costs (Annex 2-2).



- 15 -
2.19      Base costs of all components were those prevailing in Cote
d'Ivoire in January 1986, in CFA francs converted to US dollars equivalent.
Costs of the housing finance compomnet are based on total construction
costs of dwellings refinanced by CAA/CdM during project Implementation on a
procurement basis. Costs of land servicing and traffic engineering works
were estimated on the basis of preliminary or detailed engineering. The
lard needed by CAA/CTU will be granted by Government as a non-monetary
counterpart contribution and is not included in project costs. However,
where applicable, land compensation will be paid by CAAICTU to existing
owners through beneficiaries advances and is included in local costs, less
the first compensation costs which have already been paid by the Capital
Expenditure Budget (BSIE). Services, goods and equipment for project
purposes will be subject to customs duties and internal taxes. Services of
direct key counterpart staff are not included in the base costs since civil
servants are already appointed and paid according to the existing civil
service salary scale.
2.20      Provision for physical contingencies, estimated as a percentage
of base costs are included for the land development (1OZ), transport
programs (5%), and studies (10x). Price contingencies include domestic and
foreign inflation (Annex 2-2). Total contingencies amount to
US$49.6 million (CFAF 15.8 billion), representing 16.3Z of total project
costs.
2.21      The Bank loan will finance most of the estimated foreign exchange
requirement or 45.7X of total project cost net of taxes. Because of
budgetary constraints, the Government has also requested Bank financing for
maintenance of traffic signals, road markings, and traffic signs in
Abidjan, and the proposed loan will finance such maintenance on a declining
basis. The provision by the Government to increase amounts of counterpart
funds for maintenance was agreed upon during negotiations. Through the
Capital Expenditure Budget (BSIE), the Government will finance a total
amount of US$62.1 million (CFAF 19.8 billion), of which US$37.8 million
(CFAF 12.1 billion) for the capital contribution to CAA/CdM over a
five year period, US$22.6 million (CPAP 7.2 billion) for the counterpart
contribution of the transport component and US$1.7 million
(CFAF 0.5 billion) for other counterpart contributions (technical
assistance, training, studies). Out of the total project cost, the balance
(or US$116.1 million) will be financed through payments of beneficiaries
(down payment and acquisition of plots), participation by financial
institutions and a USAID loan under negotiation (Housing Guarantee Program)
of US$10 million to help finance the CAAICdM.
2.22      The Republic of C^te d'lvoire will be the Borrower. It will
channel the proceeds of the loan through the CAA to: (a) the Compte de
Mobillsation (CdM) in an amount equivalent to US$39.1 million of which
37.8 million at the prevailing Bank terms for housing projects financed
under subloans to be reimbursed by CAA/CdM to CAA, and 1.2 million and
0.1 million for technical assistance and equipment respectively, which will
be provided to CAA/CdM on a grant basis; (b) the Compte des Terrains
Urbains (CTU) in an amount equivalent to US$14.8 million of which



- 16 -
14.1 million for civil works at the prevailing Bank terms to be reimbursed
by CAA/CTU to CAA, and US$0.8 million and US$0.1 m4llion for technical
assistance and equipment respectively, which will be provided to the
CAA/CTU on a grant basis; and (c) to the DCGTX on behalf of the MPMT in an
amount equivalent to US$72.1 million for the transport, studies, training,
and pilot project. CAA, on behalf of the Government. will support the
foreign exchange risk, the varying interest rates and debt service.
Government funds from the Capital Expenditure Budget (BSIE) will be made
quarterly and will be passed on to CAA/CdM through a special account in the
form of capital contributions.
2.23      As for the housing finance component, the commercial banks will
repay their borrowings to the CAA/CdM in accordance with the repayment
schedule agreed with their clients and approved by the CAA/CdM Steering
Committee (para 2.03) at the time of the review of loan packages submitted
by the banks for refinance.  In the event of bad loans, the commercial
banks will be required to repay their borrowings in accordance with an
agreed financing plan. As for the land servicing component, beneficiaries'
advances and final payment will be made to the CAA/CTU.
I. Procurement
2.24      Procurement will be in accordance with Bank guidelines. Standard
procurement documents for civil works have been reviewed and agreed with
the Government. All civil iiorks contracts above CFAF 3.0 billion
equivalent, excluding Value Added Tax (VAT), and contracts for goods and
materials above CFAF 150 mlL lion equivalent, excluding VAT, will be on the
basis of ICB procedures acc ptable to the Bank. For contracts below these
levels, the same procedures will apply, except that on repatriation of the
foreign exchange part of the bid the exchange rate fluctuation risk will be
borne by the bidder, technically classifying these bids as being ICB. All
procurement decisions for a value of more than CFAF 500 million equivalent
will be subject to prior Bank review and approval. All contracts financed
under the project will be prepared and evaluated by the DCGTX and approved
by the relevant authorities, including the Central Directorate of Contracts
(DCM). Experience with these procurement arrangements under the Second
Highway Sector Loan (Loan 2581-IVC of 1985) has been fully satisfactory as
they have led to a substantial increase in foreign and local competition,
resulting in a wider field of international contract awards than existed
before, and to prices that are advantageous. The use of the same system
under the project is therefore expected to further strengthen the
efficiency of procurement procedures in Cote d'Ivoire. During
negotiations, confirmation on these procurement arrangements including
international advertising for LCB for civil works were obtained from
Government. Procurement of services for the technical assistance and
studies will be in accordance with Bank guidelines and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 2-4).



- 17 -
J. Disbursements
2.25      The CAA/CdM will submit disbursement applications for withdrawals
made on the basis of 50% of the resource gap (para 2.33) needed to cover
the demand for subloans. As for the CAA/CTU, the Bank loan will cover 100%
of the resource gap between the advance payments of the beneficiaries and
the total cost of the land development progran during the project period.
Disbursement applications for withdrawals will be made for civil works
expenditures exclusively. For civil works under the transport component,
disbursement will be made on the basis of 75% of total costs.
Disbursements for the technical assistance, equipment and studies will be
on the basis of OOZ of foreign costs and 70% of local expenditures.
Disbursement of the pilot project will be on the basis of 100% of total
costs (Annex 2-4). Maintenance expenditures for the traffic light
component will be financed on a declining basis, starting at 60% in 1987
and decreasing by 10% each year thereafter so that maintenance costs will
begin to be fully supported by counterpart funds by 1993. Payments of
maintenance expenditures made before the date of effectiveness but after
January 1, 1987, will be disbursed retroactively in an aggregate amount not
exceeding US$300,000.
2.26      In order to expedite disbursements, assurances have been obtained
that the Government will establish three Special Accounts in the CAA in an
amount in CFAF representing about two months' expenditures for the related
components: the first for the housing component (CAA/CdO), the second for
the land development component (CAA/CTU), and the third for other
components (transport, studies, training, and pilot project). These
accounts will be used to prefinance eligible expenditures under the Bank
loan and will be replenished on the basis of standard Bank procedures.
Applications for replenishment of the three Special Accounts will be
submitted monthly or when the initial deposit to each Special Account is
diminished by one-third, whichever comes first. Given the disbursement
profile of the Second Urban Project (Loan 2048-IVC), the estimated schedule
of disbursement for the proposed subprojects (Annex 2-5) is shorter than
the standard disbursement profile for Bank projects in Cote d'Ivoire, and
the Closing Date for the proposed loan has therefore been scheduled for
December 31, 1992.
K. Audits and Reporting
2.27      Separate project accounts will be maintained by each implementing
agency. Quarterly progress reports will be prepared by the executing
agencies and furnished to the Bank by the relevant ministries, focusing on,
among other things, policy, physical, contractual, and financial progress
of the project, including project performance related to key performance
indicators which have been agreed during negotiations.
2.28      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, no later than
six months after the close of each Government fiscal year. suitable
financial statements, including cashflows of project subaccounts and
year-end balance sheets reflecting the financiAl operations and position of



the project entities, will be made available to the Bank. These financial
statements will be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank
and its report will be made available to the Bank no later than six months
after the close of each Government financial year. The three Special
Accounts and the statements of expenditures for disbursements by CAA for
the project will be subject to audit procedures and auditors acceptable to
the Bank.
L. Project Justification
2.29      Beneficiaries. The beneficiaries of the Project will be mainly
the inhabitants of Greater Abidjan. However, applications for housing
finance under the CdM facility in other urban areas will also be
considered. It is expected that once experience has been gained, the
access of other urban areas to the CdM facility will be widened and the
potential for this will be assessed at mid-term review. The benefits of
the land servicing and urban transport components will accrue only to the
Greater Abidjan area.
2.30      The mnst recent estimate (USAID 1985) of the Abidjan household
income distribution shows that the median monthly income is CFAF 108.450.
The low cost average housing loan refinanc'I by the CAA/CdM, which would
permit purchase of a two-bedroom unit buill on a serviced plot, has been
assumed at CFAF 3.1 millica, borrowed at 9 per annum interest rate plus
0.5% insurance over 15 years. The fixed monthly installment would be
CFAF 30,800, or 33% of a monthly monetary income amounting to CFAF 93.300,
which corresponds to the 46th percentile and above. Using a progressive
mortgage payment schedule growing at 3X per annum and reducing the monthly
installments during the first year by 25Z, the monthly mortgage would start
at CFAF 23,100. Under the latter payment schedule, the low-cost average
housing loan of CFAF 3.1 million wou'd be affordable to families earning
CFAF 70,000 per month, which is at the 30th percentile; without the
project, a loan of CFAF 3.1 million, amortized over ten years, would only
be affoikable to households at the 55th percentile. The land development
program will include plots with minimal services of CFAF 360.000 (36% of
the land development program) which under the project will permit the
purchase of a dwelling costing a minimum of CFAF 2.8 million, affordable to
households earning monthly incomes above CFAF 62,000, corresponding to the
28th percentile.
2.31      The relative urban poverty threshold in Abidjan was defined at
US$375 or CFAF 119,700 yearly per capita in 1983. Calculations based on a
USAID study showed that 20% of the urban population of Greater AbidJan was
below the relative poverty threshold. Projecting current trends, about
450,000 households are estimated to be living in Abidjan in 1992, of which
about 100,000 would be below the relative poverty threshold, corresponding
to 550,000 people. The low-income group which would benefit from the
CAA/CdM and CTU would range between the 25th and 55th percentiles of the
Income distribution (above the poverty threshold) and could represent about
10,000 households during the project period. Concerning public transport,
a survey made of the users showed that 60% of them earn less than the



-19-
median income. About 56Z of all project investments (transport, housing,
and land development) In Abidjan would directly benefit the low-income
group. Among this group, about 402 of the population is under the poverty
threshold. The overall population that will benefit from the project is
estimated at about 300,000 households in 1992, or about two-thirds of the
total population of Greater Abidjan.
M. Financial Analysis
2.32      The financial proJections of the CAA/CdM were undertaken over a
15-year perlod (Annex 2-6), according to the followlng base case:
(a) after the project completion, a number of 2,500 units would be
refinanced each year from 1992 to 2001; (b) 75Z of the subloans would be
refi-anced during the first five years of their maturity (averaging
15 years), and 25Z during the first ten years of their maturity (differed
credit loans ranking from 15 to 20 years of maturity); (c) subloans would
be refinanced under the preferential discount rate (TEP) which may be
adjusted upcrn a decision by the BCEAO, but was taken at the current rate of
6% a year during the whole projection period; and (d) the refinancing
ceiling (para 2.07) which may vary from time to time and according to the
type of dwellings, was projected at a fixed share of 80% of disbursed loans
during, the whole period. During this projection period, the CAA/CdM loan
portfolio outstanding would grow from CFAF 2.3 billion in 1987 to
CFAF'68.6 billion in 2001, an average annual increase of 25.4Z.
2.33      During the project period, the 7,000 units to be refinanced
through the CAA/CdN would correspond to an investment of about
US$156 million (CFAF 50 billion). Down payments by beneficiaries would
amount to US$27.2 million (CFAF 8.7 billion), or 17.5Z of total investment.
Total loans disbursed would amount to US$119.3 million (CFAF 38.2 billion),
of which US$23.7 million (CFAF 7.6 billion) or 20Z of total amount
disbursed, would be contributed by commercial banks, and US$5 million
(CFAF 1.6 billion), or 4.2Z of total amount disbursed would consist of loan
repayments by the beneficiaries. The balance to be disbursed
(US$90.6 million or CFAF 28.9 billion) would represent the CAA/CdM total
financing needs. These needs would be covered primarily by the following
resources:
(a) a portion of the Bank loan amounting to US$37.8 million
(CFAF 12.1 billion), or 41.7% of total resources;
(b) capitalized BSIE transfers amounting to the same amount as the
Bank loan (US$37.8 million or CFAF 12.1 billion); and
(c) net income from operations amounting to US$6.2 million
(CFAF 2.0 mllUion).
Additional resources would come from an expected USAID-HG loan amounting to
US$10 million (CFAF 3.2 billion), and from issuing long-term bonds by the
CAA/CdK on the domestic financial market, amounting to around
US$1.5 sillion (CFAF 500 billion).



-20 -
2.34      During the project period, the average cost of the mix of funds
used by the CdA/CdK would be kept below the prevailing preferential
discount rate (TEP. 6Z), ensuring a positive spread for the CAA/CdM (from
2.2 to 3.4 during the project period) which would cover all the operating
expenses. This relatively high spread is the result of the Large share of
capitalized BSIE transfers during the five year start up of CAAICdK's
activities, amounting to 41.7Z of total financing needs (para 2.33) or to
24% of total investment. However, the contribution by the BSIE would stop
in 1992 (six years after project inception), and would remain at a total
level of US$47.2 million (CFAF 15.1 billion) for the projection period
(15 years). implying a total Government contribution of 6Z to housing
investment financed through CAA/CdM at that time. During the same period
(i.e., between 1992 and 2001), the expected spread will remain positive
despite an increasing amount of domestic borrowings which are expected to
be more costly than external loans from official development institutions,
both in terms of interest and maturity. However, the self-sustainability
of CAA/CdI could face some limitations if the gap between the return on
loan portfolio (equivalent to TEP) and the cost of funds, without BSIE
transfers, remained negative. These limitations are shown: (a) by the
evolution of the spread which, although positive, would start declining
after project completion; and (b) by the debt coverage ratio which would
fall below unity after 1996. If th' discrepancy between the preferential
rediscount rate (TEP) and the domestic or international borrowing rates
remains the same in the future, the CAAJCdM would be compelled to refi-nace
at a higher rate than the TEP, in order to avoid further transfers from the
BSIE. Given the assumptions of the base case (Annex 2-6), sensitivity
analyses show that an upward adjustment of the refinancing rate of, for
example, 1.5 point should be sufficient for self-sustainability in the
future for CAA/CdM. Should any major change occur in the near future in
the existing interest rate structure and regulations, an increase of the
refinancing ratc from the TEP would require either BCEA0 agreement (since
the maximum allowable spread cannot be higher than 3 points for the
commercial banks during the rediscounted period), or the introduction of a
system of flexible interest rates in medium- and long-term housing loans.
2.35      The financial projections of the CAA/CTU were done up to 1997
(Annex 2-6) according to the following base case: (a) beneficiaries would
make a down payment averaging 30% of the cost of the plot, foLlowed by
subsequent payments over three years of 20X, 40%, and 10% respectively; in
the event of cancellation, penalties will apply (10X of the sale price of
the plot); (b) for each operation, the sale price of plots will be adjusted
not only to reflect the cost of each land servicing subproject, but also to
balance the overall CAAJCTU financial plan. To meet this requirement,
selling prices would need to be about 30X above construction costs; and
(c) provisions for bad debt will be made, averaging 5X of plot sales during
the project period. Although dqbt collection in the proposed scheme of the
CAA/CdK is expected to be satisfactory, this relatively large provision has
been included in view of the poor performance in collecting land servicing
debts in the past.



- 21 -
2.36      To balance its financial plan during the project period, the
CAA/CTU would not be able to rely solely on the advance payments made by
beneficiaries. Projected financial statements show that the financing gap
at the end of the project period would be US$14.1 million
(CFAF 4.5 billion). The required additional resources will be provided by
the Bank loan which will cover about 30Z of total plot costs. Towards the
end of the project period, the CAA/CTU would also be able to start
financing programs whose sources of funds would come from a mix of
beneficiaries' advances and self-financing. During CAA/CTU steady state of
operations (construction of about 4,250 plots per year), the cashflow would
be sufficient to maintain a revolving fund by 1996. During the same period
of steady state of operations, the overall financial rate of return (assets
being equivalent to the land development portfolio) would progressively
increase from 7.6Z in 1992 to reach around 10% at the end of the forecasted
period (1997), and the operating expenses, including additional technical
assistance if needed, would be fully covered by revenues from operations
(operating ratio ranging between 0.16 in 1992 and 0.74 in 1997).
N. Economic Analysis
2.37      The economic analysis shows the following results:
(a). Land Development Program. The measurement of economic benefits
for the sites and services component is based upon estimates of
increases in property values brought about by the provision of
infrastructure and other services. This approach is conservative
since certain project benefits, such as community
facilities-related benefits, are not taken into account as they
might be imperfectly reflected in property value. Nevertheless,
it provides a useful indication of the minimum economic value of
project outputs. The economic rate of return of the land
development program is estimated at 28.5% (Annex 2-7).
(b) Transport Component. The objective of the transport component of
the project is the improvement of the efficiency and safety of
the existing road network and the promotion of sound
transportation inu'estment planning. The main item under the core
program would be the strengthening and rehabilitation of city
streets. Savings in vehicle operating costs for existing
traffic, due to better driving conditions, and time savings,
would be the main benefits of the vorks. Based on a detailed
analysis of a sample of typical road sections, the lowest
economic rate of return, without time savings, on the
strengthening program is expected to be 31.7Z (Annex 2-7).
Traffic indicators for 1985 show a clearly increasing trend of
private and public traffic demare.. It has been estimated that
during 1987-92, traffic demand will increase by about 4.5% p.a.,
supporting the investment approach discussed in para 2.12.
(c) A separate economic analysis has been undertaken for the traffic
management program. Intersections to be equipped with traffic



- 22 -
signals have been selected on the basis of two criteria:
(i) reducing congestion and reducing the risk of accidents; and
(ii) secondary considerations were the volume of pedestrian
traffic and the presence of special facilities (schools,
hospitals). On the basis of these criteria, a priority ranking
of intersections was established. The weighted economic rate of
return of the traffic mAnagent program is estimated at 41.6Z.
In addition, an economic analysis has been done for reserved bus
lanes (700 ml) along the Nangui Abrogoua Boulevard for which the
economic rate of return is estimated at 10.4Z without time
savings and 56.3% with time savings.
2.38      The project will also finance a time slice of new investments
included in the 1987-92 transport program. The economic rate of return of
the investments financed by the Bank loan under this program (urban road
links to be upgraded or to be built) will vary between 17.2 and 51.3% with
time savings, and between 12.6 and 26.9% without time savings.
0. Benefits and Risks
2.39      The proposed project is expected to yield substantial benefits to
CBte d'Ivoire. First, by making a package of financisl and technical
assistance available, the project would considerably facilitate the
implementation of the housing elements of the Government's Structural
Adjustment Program. Second, funds provided under the project for the
CAA/CdK would contribute to the long-term resources that are needed by
banks to finance housing loans. In addition, the onlending mechanism to
channel funds through the CMA/CdM to the banking system as a whole would
permit a gradual expansion of households having access to long-term
borrowings. Third, the project would make long-term resources available to
undertake a five-year land development program and to constitute a cashflow
that would allow CTU to self-finance future land servicing projects without
Government subsidy. Fourth, the transport component would maxlmize the use
of existing infrastructure through traffic management measures and
aintenance programs which should significantly reduce public transport
costs.
2.40      The CAA/CdM is designed to chart the way for future Bank and
other landing to social housing through the banking system as a whole,
rather than through a specialized bank. Risks of the project are: (i) the
relative unfamiliarity of the Ivorian banking system with financial
intermediary procedures; and (ii) the loan demand from homeowners
materializing less rapidly than expected, partly due to economic conditions
and partly on account of the uncertain response of commercial banks. These
risks are mitigated by including technical assistance and by motivating
commercial banks to participate in the housing loan component through a
maximum spread of 3%Z along with refinancing facilities. The proposed
lending amount for the housing finance component has been established with
these risks in mind, as the CAAJCdM's refinancing would represent, if
current trends continue, about 40% of the estimated demand of term credits
required by the housing sector at the end of the project (Annex 1).



- 23 -
Another risk concerns the future self sustainability of the CAA/CdM, given
the existing structure of domestic Interest rates. For this purpose, an
assessment vill be made periodically to determine if an upward adjustment
of the refinancing rate is required.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01      During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with
the Government:
(a)  eligibility criteria regarding the participation of the banks in
the CAA/CdM facility will be in compliance with BCEAO's
creditworthiness criteria (para 2.05);
(b)  the draft circular for the refinancing of subloans by CAA/CdM,
and all further amendments will be communicated to the Bank prior
to their publication (para 2.05);
(c)  definition of eligibility criteria regarding beneficiaries of the
CAA/CdM and the CAA/CTU (paras 2.06 and 2.10);
(d) definition of the selection criteria for the commercialization of
serviced land and modalities for serviced land commercialization
(paras 2.10 and 2.35); and
(e)  definition of the procurement arrangements (para 2.24),
disbursement method (para 2.26), avA auditing procedures
(para 2.28).
3.02      Condition of effectiveness:  the CAA/CTU has been established
under statutes and operating procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and a
manager (qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank) has been
appointed (para 2.11).
3.03      Condition of disbursement:  the CAA/CdM has been established with
an initial deposit of CFAF 175,000,000 under statutes and operating
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, a manager (qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank) has been appointed for the CAA/CdM
(para 2.03), and the Circular (satisfactory to the Bank) has been issued to
the participating banks (para 2.05).
3.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$126 million equivalent
to the Republic of Co^te d'Ivoire.
WAPU
February 1987



-24-                      ANN     I
Page 1 of 4
COTE D'IVOIRE
THIR  URBA  PROJECT
Supply and Demand for Housingt Loans
1.        The proposed project will encourage the private sector to move
into the construction of low- and middle-cost housing, a segment which was,
until 1980, catered to by the operations of SICOGI and SOGEPIHA and
subsidized by the Treasury. Since 1980, the gap between supply and demand
for housing has been bridged by the densification of some old established
neighborhoods (Abobo, Anyama, and Gonzagueville), and mainly by the
extensive development of illegal settlements such as Abidjan Nord. These
consist of large clusters of soundly built houses, but without construction
permits, on unmerviced public land with little respect for land use
efficiency. Two other significant features of Abidjan's housing and
population patterns affect housing demand: (a) nearly 80X of all residents
are renters or leasers; and (b) non-Ivorians constitute about 50Z of
Abidjan's population, most of them being below the median income level.
2.        Creation of the Compte de Mobilisation is a response to two
objectives: revitalization of the housing market and development of better
financing and refinancing mechanisms in order to give new strata of the
population access to credit and, therefore, to homeownership. However,
caution is necessary in estimating the creditworthy demand for housing
because this demand can vary significantly as a function of changing
incomes, bank's policies, and the cost of accessible credit. The level of
demand has been estimated by examining existing data relating to:
(a) recent household income information;
(b) loans recently made by the banking system; and
(c) use of BCEA0 rediscourting facility.
Household Income Information
3.        Existing information on the structure of income distribution and
on Income distribution according to type of dwelling serves to underline
the urgency of a far-reaching reorientation of the housing sector and its
financing to promote homeownership among lower-income populations.
Based on information provided by a recent USAID-HG survey
(September 1985), the monthly income of Abidjan's households (average size
5.7 people), and their distribution according to type of dwelling are as
follows:



-25-                      ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
(a) structure of income:
Income                             in CFAF
Average Income                          177,829
Median Income                           108,451
Per Capita Average Income                30,819
Per Capita Median Income                 19,026
(b) income according to type of dwelling:
(in CPAF)
Average        Median         Average        Average
Income         Income         Size per        Income
per Month      per Month      Household      per Capita
Residentiel         606,221        457,666          5,45         111,233
Economique          248,961        176,304          6,96          35,770
Evolutif            142,723         99,360          5,59          25,531
Spontane             85,301         65,000          4,62          18,463
Total Abidjan     177,829        108,451          5,77          30,819
In reference to the above information, the four mAin categories of loans
for housing refinanced under the terms and conditions proposed by the
Compte de Mobilisation have been established to cover a large spectrum of
the income distribution as well as to supply a large diversity of
dwellings:
(in CFAF)
Average Loan        Average Income      Percentile
12   million            265,000             85th
8   million            176,000             70th
3.2 million             70,000             30th
2.4 million             53,000             25th
Banking Sector Loans
5.        Loans made by the banking sector are known as far as aggregate
credit outstandings are concerned. Annual numbers of loans made are, by
contrast, more difficult to estimate. However, the following conclusions
emerge:
(a) In the last two years, the volume of loans provided by the banks
to the social housing sector (units with a value less than
CFAF 15 mfillon) is estimated by the banks to represent between



-26-                      ANNE I
Page 3 of 4
75Z and 951 of all housing loans indicating that the segment of
the housing market providing access to homeownership for low- and
middle-income families is the firmest. The combined effect of
the fall in salaries, the departure of a certain number of
foreign technicians have brought a reduction in rental income
from luxury and higher quality housing on the order of 301. At
the same time, it is estimated that the market for housing within
the price range envisaged under the project, CFAF 3 to
15 million, has remained a stable value. Being the most robust,
this segment of the market is also the one which can provide
access to homeovnership to low- and middle-income families;
(b) housing savings are developing well. To date, 18,000 savings
accounts have been opened in various banks for the purpose of
purchasing a house; and
(c)  the economic recession has caused a substantial reduction in
housing finance to about 600 loans in 1985 for a total amount of
CFAF 4.9 billion. To this should be added the outstanding credit
of the Credit Ivoirien pour le Financement de I'Immobilier
(CIEIM). From its establishment in 1978 until
September 30, 1984, the "net output" of CIFIK amounted to
CFAF 10,826 million for 1,064 loans or 180 loans per year. Since
1986, however, CIFIM has suspended all its lending activities.
Credit Outstanding by Sector
1.        As of June 1985, the total credit (short-, medium-, and
long-term) outstanding, by sector and including all banks, was as follows:
CFAF billion        x
Credits      Distribution
Primary sector                        31.8              4.1
Industry                             252.9            33.0
Rental and Building  nagement         42.6 al           5.6
Other sectors                        438.4             57.3
TOTAL                                765.7            100.0
a/ of Which short term 35.8, medium term 4.9, and long term 1.9.
At the end of June 1984, the total credit outstanding for housing
rediscounted at the BCEAD amounted to CFAF 8.2 million, a slight increase
from 1983 (CFAF 7.6 billion). To revitalize the social housing sector, the
National Credit Comaittee im?osed, on March 17, 1983, a mini=m coefficient
equal to 0.7% of the credit bAlAnce of ordinary credit or 5Z of accrued



-27-                      AN      I1
Page 4 of 4
bank credit. On the basis of total credit outstanding of increasing by 10l
per aNum that of social housing credit would be estimated at about
CFAP 3.8 billion, or about 500 units per year. These different figures
suggest that during these last years, the banking sector has made about
500-600 loans per year, representing, in terms of number of loans, less
than 5S of the total number of savings accounts.
The Projected Creditworthy Demand
7.        With the Compte de Mobilisation, and under different conditions,
mostly the lengthening of the amortization period from 10 to 15 years,
housing loans would be affordable to households ranking between the 25th
and the 85th percentile (para 3). Assuming that one-fourth of the
households ranking below the median income and down to the 25th percentile
belong to the credivorthy demand, and that two-thirds of households ranking
above the median income and up to the 85th percentile belong to this
creditworthy demand, about 302 of the households would be eligible to the
CAA/CdM. Given that the annual demand is estlmated to be equivalent to the
number of new families (about 20,500 in 1987, growing at the same price as
the urban population, or 6.2Z per year). and that the banking sector would
be unable to process much more than 1.000 loans per annum at the
beginning), the projected applications (supply) for housing loans of the
CdM. compared with the projected creditworthy demand, are the following:
Supply           Projected Creditworthy Demand a/
(CdE)
1987                  600                         6,100
1988                  980                         6,600
1989                1,277                         7,000
1990                1,754                         7,400
1991                2,391                         7,900
Total          7,001                        35,000
a/ 302 of the annual demand
The CdM would satisfy about 20Z of the projected creditworthy demand over
the 1987-1991 period, and up to 30% during the last year of the project
completion period.
WAPWU
February 1987



- 28 -                    ANNEX 2-1
Page 1 of 3
COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A. The Housing Finance Component (Compte de Mobilisation)
1.        The Compte de Mobilisation (CdM) would refinance four types of
housing loans. The main features are derived from an analysis of the
households' needs and incorporate recent dispositions regulating housing
finance. The proceeds of the Bank loan would be used for the following
purposes (figures are indicative):
(a) a program of 1,116 new units, currently called "multiple
builders", providing a broad range of housing types such as small
apartment blocks and/or housing clusters with an average loan
amount of CFAF 12 million (35% of CdM resources);
(b)  a middle-income program of 1,325 units, with an average loan
amount of CFAF 8 million (28% of CdM resources);
(c) a social unit program (2,280 units), with an average loan amount
of CFAF 3.2 million (20% of CdM resources); and
(d) a low-cost unit program (2,280 units), with an average loan
amount of CFAF 2.4 million (17Z of CdM resources).
2.        Technical Assistance to CdM would be required on a long-term
basis for permanent advisory services to CdM staff, and on a short-term
basis for specific tasks. The Bank loan will finance long-term consulting
services for the first three years of the project (implementation period:
about 72 man-months), and the costs of short-term consultants (about 24
man-months), whereas CAA/CdM would bear the cost of their prolongation, if
needed.
B. The Land Development Program (Compte des Terrains Urbains)
3.        The subloan to the Compte des Terrains Urbains (CTU) will be used
to finance the civil works required to service about 750 ha and to generate
a revolving fund.  Although the civil works might include social
facilities, these would not be financed by the Bank loan. The site-s are
located at Km 18, Djibi 1 and 2, and Riviera Palmeraie.
4.        Four main levels of servicing have been considered:
(a) level 1: plots of 200/250 m2 for households earning less than
CFAF 70,000 per month, which will be serviced by unpaved streets,
drained with gravel ditches, aud access to water through public
standpipes (36% of the program);



- 29 -                    ANNE  2-1
Page 2 of 3
(b)  level 2: plots of 250/300 m2 for households earning less than
CFAF 100,000 per month, which will be served with the same level
of service than the level 1, but equipped with electricity (25%
of the program);
(c) level 3: plots of 300/450 m2 for households earning less than
CFAF 180,000 per month, which will be served bu unpaved streets,
and equipped with water and electricity (27% of the program); and
(d) level 4: residential plots of 450/600 m2 serviced by high design
standards (12% of the program).
5.        Technical assistance to CTU will strengthen it in three sensitive
areas: the commercialization process, the recovery process, and the
management information system. The technical assistance would be both
limited In time and not directly at the charge of CAA/CTU. During the
project period, about 48 man-months will be supported by the Bank loan, and
CTU would bear the cost of their prolongation, if needed.
C. The Transport Program
6.        The transport component would comprise three elements:
(a) a core program of measures and investments constituting
essentially the continuation of programs initiated under the
Bank's First and Second Urban Development Projects;
(b) a time slice of investments to be included in the Government's
1987-91 urban transport investment program; and
(c) a transport planning study to determine investments and policies
for the Greater Abidjan area for the period up to the year 2000.
7.        The core program, representing about 40% of base costs of the
transport component. would cover: (a) rehabilitation and maintenance of
34 road sections totalling about 50 km in the following neighborhoods:
Plateau, Cocody, Yopougon, Treichville, Marcory Zone IV, Koumassi, Port
Bouet, and Vridi; (b) traffic management and safety comprising inter alia
extension of the existing busway in Nangui Abrogoua northwards (0.7 km), as
far as the new bus station at Agban and southwards (1.8 km), to link up
with the existing busway in Bd de la Republique; and (c) improvements and
equipment for about 47 junctions aimed at increasing safety of pedestrians
and vehicles. About 2.550 metres lineaire (ml) of bus lanes will be built
in Abobo. A major extension of the existing traffic signal control scheme
would be carried outt in Treichville, Koumassi, Marcory, Cocody, and Banco
areas. The maintenance program for traffic signals, signs, and marking,
begun under the Second Urban Project, would continue through the proposed
project.
8.        The 1987-1991 investment program would be the largest item in the
transport component (60% of base cost) and would comprise improvement of



- 30 -                    ANNEX 2-1
Page 3 of 3
the public transport system to develop public transport accessibility and
services in low-income areas or for low-income people working in
residential areas. The naln components lclude: (a) road access
improvements (35.0 km) in the Banco, Abobo/Willliamsville, Marcory, and
Cocody areas; and (b) construction of the new roads totaling about 17.5 km.
WAPWU
February 1987



M61 AJWzUqo
MIVA
u'!      U't     toll    tilt     It      toll     ,wgj3vl ol4 d1ajo
W1 - @} w *- w AW *t51            1 1    151   S151      15       Ul       '"^I1IMIN
tl ^  K'itl  tS'lt  ~~~li'li         U'ltj    %'"t lU'&      Ul'                       1lI
-  -  -  --         3aa.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         iii wil
U'l  tS'Y   1't    ll~~~I'tlUlllt            w'UI'J Irlia    0"'                   l  l   31,4
C4                          Sb'l     U' '117  *1w 3R4111               1&'L"    WI'l            3   1U             &II    3    Wllslw
l e   llt    U'UI     ~ItU     W'lt     U'U     l'tl             It49'NII  WlLI't1  WhO)'  WI UhtIIU lt4 1              lUU
N t4
tee      U'e      t's     M'       15      tie@             e@11      SN*    II      se                        ,, re *014
39       U'S     *5      *15     t1'5      tl'              SKI      091    0.5      (*                          ISblI
89) P0 hlu,oi "a:"a
39      19'S      WI'     II't     SI'S     t'tS             5'9"L*  LK'||"  1'S1     II )'lii 1514 0 Mhul
3        U        1115    W11'1    191      U', 'L                    '1t    11*1     Olin             I     ^hh  s *1'P13
w   n   *|l  ""   l   *t            Cl      *":    tt      ll             zjil X~~~~~~~~~~~~1qNP INPfAI t lIPM
39      199       09!     SilO     IIIc    911               L9tE'    *'WU'I 0L'LL    W'mUlU             ) SJbi"hSO
39       U'1       Nl      11'i    11'1 l  t ill1,'191              905t    *"3      LI'U9Ia               uski" alIlPaI
39      3*        W*11    i',      1'S     '111              1'lW9   LI'S.   IT       *1tl'1           Sl*fUl Us.la,
*   39        91'*    It'll    III      95LL             wbu9'1   w!ltI'9 wLiSO  U9l'1             111Ia Is M1MA40
m  1:919  alli  ollol  Bill  111  irouls   lo'cult Ind     ",Lul               twMA11hpAb
39      II'S     II'i      I1,O    tie     to',              Irioe   iocoll  Sr'S    0r'S                   so      31
WI       WI       W         5       LS      U'                'II'      S    irt      waill             1)1 Imiuuo 109
a9       f'ilm9          1eI.      6I'S     Wit              U'L        119  wai*l    *11        )1195 Iflsqu
t        tll'     tilt    1910     tll'    tilt              *t1'9   911   i' s bLS   15'S                       I  1115
III   l       all     1111     *1' fill                  '1tl'   Sl's5  1511     Wlta%w kl"i'df 181*1
3U'l             lIft     L1'S1   t'it     f'tl             017'0    ult'i  t *'bl   tI'*9I'                 II I"I
IR  Ulf  0119  99,11  loll  all    w-tillo  VI-eillt OL-M  Irgull      ~       M&4 130*1115 96
3        311S     It'l    all      I'S     IS'S              WIWI      'lkl  0tu     08                           Isis1*3
NI       t'S      MO'      U'      Sl'S    II',              *1      Nilt    59'S!    W'111             i)   "P3 lw lq@
39      3u        WI       IS'K    Li '1    U'el             0IM11*  5939    w        3t's  O            S   O    102190)95
to       *'1      Wt      8        Nl       Ulf              flit    WL o1't   l ItI'I                       SlIm @111231
*        301U     1991 ,    i 1     1 Hl                      13,11  "IN''1  "Ili     Utli'                   t1'vl  lOn
all5          MNi     is's    It's     61tel            W'rWulI  WIWIt wUO'I      w'4'4                 610103 09Iiq
in       Ulli     film     WSI     i' t9'*  U'IZ                'lll  w119*'  mwe'I  Nw',                '1191p Umi 5)90
ulli  WIN  "IN  "It  Ulu    oflut'll  KIWI   wooll   oraoll               WM~~~hI"III niS 3)4.3
IU   IrU   UYtl  teu  nl~~~ u5e                Wu*' U    'Ul     e'      N' 
lsai m  arpWe13nil
A_I _1I 



COT)1E 1)' IVUIRt.
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
Project Cish Flow
ICFAF sillions'
lear        Yeir 2        tear 3        Vear 4        lear 5          Year 6
lotal          cvy?        CYSO          ce9           C%90          CY91            C192
.... .       .....   .   .......  .....  . .....  ..........  . . .........  ......  ....... ..
SOURCES
1IRD Loan                                                   40.320.4     3.225.f       6,049.1       6,064.1       9,0O.1       10,H6.5        4,032.0
USAID Loan                                                    3,200.0        0.0         600.0         f00.0        1,000.0         700.0          0.0
6ovfrnumnt Budget \tSIE)                                     19,895.2     1,790.6       4,973.8       4,1173.8      3,979.0       2,984.3       1,193.7
Financial Institutions                                       12,541.1     1,254.1       1,861.2       2,.AG.2       3,009.9       3,135.3         752.5
kneficiaries                                                21,403.3     2.140.3       3,210.5       4,260.7        5,136.1      5,564.9       1,070.2
............   ......     ........      ........      -      -      ........ . .........
Total Sources                                               97,360.0     6,410.o       16,713.5     20,726.7      21,169.6      23,270.9       7,044.4
*wuuumuI       *r:3::     3:3.3333      2vMv*s 3       as ::s zr:ss::3I    s      2S:s:s::
APftLiCATIONS
............ .......... 
Coupte de Hobliuataon                                       50,185.2     4,835.0       8,124.4       9,691.9       12,231.4      15,294.6          0.0
Land ODeelopeent Progras                                     16,590.9    2,779.1       2,070.2       3,022.9        4,143.9      3,174.9           0.0
Transportation Prograu                                      28,339.4     2,603.9       9,i43.7       7,529.7       5,650.7       4,412.4           0.0                                         . 
Studies, Training & other                                    2,244.5       389.2          798.4         756.3         281.7          16.9          0.0
.....  ...... . .. ........  -------- . . .....  .....  --------    --------  .    . . . ----.--..-
Total Applcations                                           97,360.0    10,608.0      19.936.7      21,601.9      22,314.6      22,999.8           0.0                                         N N
.::::~:it     33:3:::     3333333       33333333      3uu33333      33333333      33333333                                        O F
0 N
Surplus ilelfcit) a*                                             0.0     -219i.4        -3223.2       -975.1        -1124.0        372.1        7040.4
Cumulative Surplus lDefacitt                                             -2197.4       -5420.6       -6295.7       -7420.5       -7049.4            .0
a/ Dticits are due to duscrepncites bet,-n wot. execution and aisburseaents.
WAPWLU
February     1967



-33 -                ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 5
COTE D ' rVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
The Banking System I/
1.        Policy Framework. Cote d'Ivoire is a member of the West African
Monetary Union (UMOA), together with six other francophone countries
(Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). The Union shares
(a) a common currency (CFA Franc), fully guaranteed by France and freely
convertible into the French Franc at a fixed parity; (b) a common Central
Bank (BCEAO); and (c) a common framework of credit and monetary policies
which permits, however, different monetary and credit targets for different
countries. BCEAO is administered by a Governor and a Board of Directors
representing each member state and France. The Headquarters of BCEAO are
located in Dakar, Senegal, with a national branch and a national credit
committee in each member country.
2.        BCEAO possesses extensive regulatory powers over the financial
sector of member countries. It formulates and operates the monetary policy
of the Union, provides loans and discounts to the governments and the
financial institutions, and exercises wide powers to supervise, inspect,
and discipline these institutions. It also sets the interest rate
structure, monitors credit allocation, and controls credit growth. Until
1975. credit was controlled quantitatively through BCEAD's rediscount
system, which was the principal source of liquidity for the banks in UMOA.
Since then, several major reforms have been introduced in the system to,
inter alia, curtail the overwhelming dependence of the financial
institutions on the Central Bank, ensure better utilization of the
evailable resources within UMOA, and encourage financing of certain sectors
considered as priority areas. Rediscounting accommodations are now no
longer automatic but determined on the basis of the applicant banks'
liquidity; total refinancing from the Central Bank is limited to 35% of an
individual bank's portfolio (excluding seasonal agriculture credits), and
sectorial coefficients have been introduced to direct a minimum portion of
bank credits towards priority sectors. Other reforms include a policy of
more frequent adjustments to the rediscount rate, creation of a regional
money market, and the setting-up of a prior approval procedure for all
loans in excess of a predetermined amount (CFAF 100 million in Cote
d'Ivoire) to better monitor credit growth and allocation. Finally, with a
view to providing a broader base for development finamcing, the previous
differentiation between commercial and development banks has been
eliminated, and the Central Bank is authorized to rediscount loans with
maturities of up to ten years, increased from seven years previously.
1/   This annex is substantially unchanged from the Staff Appraisal Report
for the Industrial Finance and Development Project
(Report No. 5489-IVC).



- 34 -               ANNE  2-3
Page 2 of 3
3.        Concomitant with the above, several qualitative and quantitative
measures have been introduced to control and monitor the activities of the
financial institutions. These measures permit the Central Bank to, inter
alia, authorize opening of new institutions and branch offices, set Winmum
share capital and reserve requirements, institute minimum liquidity,
maximum equity participation and debt equity ratios, as well as set
ceilings for credit expansion and rediscotanting by individual institutions.
Banking institutions are currently required to cover at least 75Z of sight
liabilities by short-term assets, of which at least 3% have to be cash
holdings, and to maintain a net equity of no less than 6% of total loans.
The Central Bank monitors compliance with these requirements by means of
monthly reports and has the authority to impose disciplinary sanctions
commensurate with the gravity of the infraction, including penal sanctions,
if required.
4.        Interest Rate Structure. All lending rates in UMOA countries are
regulated by the BCEAO. They are uniform throughout the countries in the
Union and are set in reference to "normal" and "preferential" rediscount
rates of the Central Bank, with variable max1mum allowable spreads between
the subsectors. Currently, the preferential rate applies to seasonal
agriculture crop financing, small- and medium-scale national enterprises
(SME), and low-cost housing defined as units costing less than
CFAF 15 million. All other activities are subject to the normal rares.
Current rates, (as of January 1987). are as follows:
Interest Rates in UMAO Countries
(in Z)
Applicable        Authorized     Authorized
Discount Rates        Spreads      Final Rates
Preferential Activities
Seasonal Crop Financing             6.0                1-2            7-8
SHE                                 6.0                1-3            7-9
Housing                             6.0                1-3            7-9
Normal Activities
Trade                               9.0                1-5           10-15
Industry                            9.0                2-5           11-15
Other                               9.0                3-5           12-15
5.        The rates are applicable to all loans, irrespective of the
term or the origin of resources, and do not include various authorized
commissions that are charged on top by the financial intermediaries. In
addition, a service tax (TPS), equal to 20% of the base cost, would be
applied for commercial loans by 1987, thus bringing the final effective
cost of borrowings to 12-18%. In light of the prevailing and projected



-35 -                ANNEX 2-3
Page 3 of 5
level of inflation in C$te d' Ivoire (around 3X in the medium-term),
these rates are substantially positive in real terms. Minimu interest
paid on savings and deposits varies from 3.5Z to 6.75Z, depending upon
the amount and the term of the deposits. Interest on large
institutional deposits is negotiable, but rarely exceeds the money
market deposit rate, which is currently about 9%.
6.        Institutions in the Financial System. With the rapid growth
in the number of institutions over the past decade, Cote d'Ivoire today
has one of the most developed and sophisticated financial systems in
Sub-Saharan Africa. This system comprises 13 commercial banks (of which
five are the branches of foreign banks), six specialized banks (the
former development banks). and nine non-banking finance companies. In
additlon, there is a public institution, Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
(CAA), which manages the public debt, holds and manages public deposits,
and mobilizes local resources through tax-free bond issues. There is
also a Central Bank-managed regional money market which permits
financial institutions to place their excess liquidity and to satisfy
their short-term resource requirements. Finally, close to a dozen
insurance companies, though not a part, stricto-sensu, of the system,
also operate in C^ote d'Ivoire, in addition to a stock exchange which
trades in a limited number of securities.
7.        At the center of the financial system are the commercial banks
which command about four-fifths of both credits and deposits in the
system. Despite the recent rapid growth in their number, the four
oldest banks (SGBCI, BIAO, BICICI, and SIB) still heavily dominate the
system and together account for more than two-thirds of total assets and
credits. These four banks are all affiliated with French banks and
operate a dense network of branches throughout the country, in contrast
to the more recently established commercial banks which only have
offices in the capital city. Contrary to the specialized ex-development
banks, where Ivorian participation and management predominate, the
commercial banks are still essentially foreign-owned and -managed, and
keep close ties to their parent banks.
8.        Of the six specialized ex-development banks in the system, two
(BIDI and COFINCI) are specialized in lending to the industrial sector,
while one (CCI) is a multipurpose bank. The fc-.rth (BNDA) focuses on
mobilizing rural savings and on providing financial and technical
assistance to the agriculture sector, while the last two (BNEC and BICT)
concentrate on credits for housing. The Government has played an
important role in the establishment of all but one (COPINCI) of these
banks, taking contrc-lling interests in BNDA, BNEC 2/, and CCI, and
mlnority holdings in the others. It has also been actively involved in
their operations by guaranteeing their external borrowings and
2/ In 1979, the Government privatized BNEC.



-36 -                AN=NE 2-3
Page 4 of 5
appointing the chief executives In all but two (COFINCI and BICT).
Finally, both BIDI and CCI have benefited from Bank lines of credit for
financing of large- and small-scale industry and hotel projects in C^te
d'Ivoire.
9.        In order to be eligible for Central Bank refinancing, all
intermediary banks and beneficiary enterprises are required to
demonstrate that they have a sound management, satisfactory financial,
cash flow and liquidity positions, as well as sound prospects for future
profitability. These are assessed by the Central Bank primarily on the
basis of the following principal requirements, although subjective
factors also play a part in Central Bank's evaluation of each individual
beneficiary.
Principal Requirements Applicable to Banks
(a) Minimum share capital          at least CFAF 1 billion
(b) Net equity                     at least 6Z of total loan
commitments
(c)  Short-term assets             at least 75Z of sight and
short-term liabilities
(d)  Cash holdings                 at least 31 of total liquid and
short-term assets
(e) Maximum Central Bank           35Z of total commitments
refinancing
(f)  Exposure limits:
(i)   individual equity participations l1mited to 152 of a
bank's effective net worth, or 25Z of the share capital
of beneficiary enterprises;
(ii)  aggregate equity participations plus net fixed assets of
a bank limited to 1OOZ of its net worth;
(iii) total credits to a single or to a group of closely
related beneficiaries limited to 1001 of the bank's net
worth; and
(iv)  total credit to the staff of a bank limited to 20% of
its effective net worth.
10.       Compliance with the above requirements is monitored on an
ongoing basis by the Central Bank through submission of the following
reports by the binks:



-37 -                AUN  2-3
Page 5 of 5
(a) status of liquidity                     on a daily bais
(b) summary of loans and resources          every 10 days
(c) detailed infozatLon on loans,
borrowings, deposits. equity
participations,    well as liquidity
and net worth                          every mth
(d) provisional balance sheets              every 3 months
(e) year-end flacial accounts including
detailed balance sheet and Incoe
statemts                               aznualy
WAPWU
February 1987



2vTpunoj o3 anp dn ppB -on Au. 3T[204
U1    LIS U;    Ue c  I   Itpuuu;P It t 
m    _-      _ 
soxn  "-D   t1 ul}MMl Ao
"III  19Z0
. 0 9_ _I. __3_QI_
(*1)  (0*1Im3~) r
MILD~~~~~~~~~~U11 tSIh 
LU  @0  91  Ff1     3~~~nnylqg 1p3351w3
ezAM  SAoM         of         e   LAMMf
III)        1101
*1 SANa             3
nommiq~~~ I      5B0M 
lIlJ)  (o   L (LIM  0M  m
(91  (91)M                    n PJ
I..   U'*0                u.{;mjU2p
9*          91 32U -.1131IP P:
MAIJI3 1-IJW  '5
(113t  irK)  IVSS  00
( 1*  411   (P0-o)             W
-|| '!- Y1I133'                  12311
ZiP   230 z              1    l2mJuu3
IUUIJ  *AU         33             LIp
~~~1"4 3mmmS
,-E~~~{1 1111KV       USIA 3
08   L-O SE-S-T



-39-
COTE D'IVOIIIE                          ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 2
THIN URIAN P   ECT
Allocation and Disursewet of IBRD Loun
Aomt of Lon                 I of Total
Allocati.                expenditures
US S=320              to be finced
1-a          Social Nousing Los ICOIf                    34,031,250        50 muim      of subluns amots
disbursed to participatiig lanks.
1-b          Consultats'services for CM                   1,090,200        100t of foreign expenditures
and 70. of loul expenditures
1-c          Equipmnt for CNN                               105,064        1001 of foreign apenditures
and 701 of local ependitures
2-a           Civil larks for CTU                        12,656,250        Revolving Fund for C.T.U.1100%)
2-b           Comsultnts'srvices for CTU                    569,659        100% of foreign expenditures
and 701 of local expenditures
2-c          Equipmnt for CTm                               105,064        1Q01 of foreign expenditures
and 701 of local spenditures
3-a          Civil lorks for Transportation              58,644,069        751 of total expenditwes
3-b           Naintenance of Traffic Lights                 726,743        75Z of local upenitures for vithdrals
up to an ggregate equivalent to
601 of local expenditures for uithdrawals
up to an agggate equivalent to
451 of local expendituwes for withdrawls
up to an aggregate equivalent to
301 of local expenditures for withdrawls
up to an aggregate equivalent to
I5S of local expteditures for vithdraals
up to an aggregate equivalent to
0% of local expenditures for withdrawls
up to an aggregate equivalent to
4-a           Studies                                   4,503,748.3        1Q01 of foreign expenditwes
and 701 of local expenditures
4-b           Training                                    372,456.9        100% of foreign ependitures
and 70M of loca expenditures
4-c           Pilot Project                               516,627          100% of total expnditures
SUB TOTAL                                 113,311,185
Unallocated                                12,680,115
Total                                  126,000,000
WAPW[
January 197



cr ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~rv
-                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(s961 'das) 39dL3 uwoT TT' 203 psuiquo  - IZTOAZaP 3303  :uo;Usu *flflV 2@@5  /T
so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
fld  t      ULnWhU.3 7SWsSVd  O
,~~         ~ 2         iii II  i
4 f          WX Bcm       1.111    16
coL
'I~                            -j>*m
oi; ~ ~ ~ ,I.g  j   iA
ml~~~~~~mi 



-41 -                ANKM 2-6
Page I of 14
COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
Financial Analysis
A. The Compte de Mobilisation
1. CdMN MaIn Financial Intermediation Functions
1.        With a view to lowering the cost of hcising loans, as well as
lengthening their maturity period, the two main financial functions of CdM
would be the following:
(a) refinancing housing loans lent by the comercial and specialized
banks to beneficiaries willing to purchase their first dwelling
(including plot); and
(b) managing mixed resources, borrowed either on the local or the
international market at medium- or long-term, and granted from
BSIE in orler to: (i) lengthen the maturity period of the loans
up to 15 years; and (ii) minimize the onlending interest rate to
the beneficiaries (down to 9.0S).
2.        These two functions are schematized in the following flows of
funds chart, showing the flows of funds through CdIM. Commercial banks
would act as financial intermedries between Cdl and the beneficiaries,
and would bear the commercial risk. They would be allowed to refinance
their social housing loans through CdM during the whole maturity period of
the loans (11 or 15 years) at preferential rate (TEP). However, bdsic
limitations would come from CdM to prevent any bias against the poorer
income groups.
3.        The Limitation would concern the refinancing ratio. To be in
line with the overall financial policy, this ratio vould have to be
flexible, depending, for example, on the degree of liquidity of the
commercial banks. Lower ratios would contribute positively to the
transformation process and the local resources mobilization target, but
could prevent bank's participation at the beginning. The refinancing
ratios would vary according to an adjustable scale. For example, the
higher ref ifancing ratio would involve sinultaneously:
(a) the lower acquisition cost;
(b) the higher progressive repayment term; and
(c) the longest maturity period.
The refinancing ratios would vary between 5OZ to 90S of given subloans and
would average 80S with the forecasted program.



-42 -                ANNEX 2-6
Page 2 of 14
4.        CdM would be indirectly involved Li the deferred credit facility,
currently managed by CIFIM in association with the commercial bamks
interested in such a scheme. Commercial banks would be authorized to
refinance differed credit loans up to 10 years, through Cd[, which would
lengthen the amortization period of loans up to 20 years.
Deferred Credit
5.        The deferred credit, as it exists in Cote d'Ivoire (CIFIM), is a
banking technique used for the financing of housing which combines three
elements encountered in housing finance in Europe: a mutual savings
dimension, a long-term contract linking future loans to prior deposits, and
refinancing of part of the contract by another finAncial institution. As
mutual savings institutions, deferred credit societies have their
antecedents in British Building Societies and Germn Bausparkassen. As
practiced in Cote d'Ivoire, deferred credit is still defined by a French
law enacted in 1952, at a time when long-term financing for housing was
extremely scarce, commercial banks were not yet permitted to offer
long-term loans, and the Central Bank (or specialized long-term finance
institutions) offered partial refinancing of specific types of loans up to
a maximum of ten years.
6.        Financing through deferred credit implies a two-part contract and
two legally distinct institutions. The first is the deferred credit
society which acts stictly as a mutual credit society: each borrower has
first been a depositor of fixed payments and is entitled to borrow exactly
as much as he has contracted to deposit. In accordance with the principles
of a rotating credit association, there is no interest rate involved but
only a (regulated) management fee; and depending on the projected growth of
membership, the waiting period for obtaining the loan can vary. Customers
are essentially borrowing against their past savings and their contracted
future savings. To insure observance of contracts and the financial
stability of the system, mortgage guarantees are required.
7.        Because home buyers prefer either access to immediate financing
or to financing at an early stage. the savings phase can be shortened if a
medium-term loan can be provided to the deferred credit society by another
finnmcial institution (anticipateur). This second "anticipatory" loan is
not amortized and carries monthly interest payment; the principal repaid as
a balloon payment at maturity of this "anticipatory loan". The funds
necessary to meet this balloon payment come from tLe accumulated savings
payments made by the borrower and should be placed in a special account or
sinking fund (fonds de repartition) which should not be used for additional
home loans.
S.        A typical contract specifies the total value of the loan, the
amount of fixed regular payments, the management costs paid to the deferred
credit society, the interest to be paid on the anticipatory loan, the date
at which the loan be granted and the total life of the contract. Contracts
can have adjustable deposits according to increasing housing costs and
other adjustments can be made on the basic concepts presented here.



-43 -                ANNX2-6
Page 3 of 14
9.        In the regulatory context of the BCEAO, this system improves
housing affordability by creating longer loan maturities in economies where
these are very scarce through the matching of a long-term contract with a
medium-term loan. Some savings mobilization takes place because of the
prior savings required by the system. However, this system is very
dependent on the structure of its cash flow and the steady growth of
membership. Strict management is required to conlect interest payments on
schedule and maintain the sinking funds at an appropriate level in order to
avoid severe liquidity risks, especially if the cash flow of the
institution providing the anticipatory financing is also of a lmeited size.



-44 -                AN= 2-6
Pe 4 of 14
COTE D 'IVOI
TRD URBAN PROJECT
Flows of Fumds
Sources
Foreign Borrow1n8_                      Domestic BorrovRgs     Grants
Treasury
IBRD       Others                            Bonds          |
Compte de Nobilisation
CdM
Applications 
Coercial Bank}
housing credit vndow
|    hwousolds      |                 |  deferred credit
I     (owaership)                     j   corportations



-45 -                ANNEX 2-6
Page 5 of 14
2. CAA/CdK Projected Financial Statements
10.       One set of projected financial statements is presented in this
annex: a basic set with progressive repayment scheme of loans, under the
assumption of a 31 yearly repayment Increase. Given the dramatic impact of
a progressive repayment scheme on the level of affordability (monthly
payments would be 25Z below the constant monthly payment scheme),
discussions were held on this topic with the banking association in C^te
d'Ivoire. Two of -he main commercial banks have shown interest in using
progressive schemes.
11.       Assumptions underlying CAA/CdM projected financial statements are
shown in Tables 1 and 2. Table 1 gives the main assumptions used for the
projected financial statements. Table 2 includes detailed data on each
subprogram that would be financed through CAA/CdK, either during the
project inplementatiou period or beyond. Table 2 also provides total
project financing, either on coimnitment basis or on disbursement basis.
12.       Tables 3 and 4 show projected income statements and source and
application of funds for the progressive repayment scheme on a disbursement
basis.
13.       Table 5 shows the CAA/CdM finsncing plan during the project
implementation period (1987-1991).
B. The Compte des Terrains Urbains (CTU)
1.        Tables 6 and 7 show the projected financial statements for CTU.
Table 6 gives the breakdown between project operations and "future
operations" which CTU would self finance. Table 7 presents CTU's
cash-flow, mixing both operations.
2.        Table 8 shows the project financing plan which also includes
"future operationsn, under the heading "other operations". Table 9
includes detailed data on each subprogram.
3.        No penalties for late payment were applied, but (a) assumptions
for beneficiaries advances comprise a possible delay in total payment (or
cancelation) averaging 102 of total receipts fron sales the last year.
Thus, the effective breakdown of beneficiaries advances are projected as
follows: down payment (during the year civil works will be launched):
30%, then 20%, 40%, and 1OZ respectively the following years; and (b) a
provision for bad debt averaging 5% of total receipts from sale is
included.
WAPWI
February 1987



-46-                 ANNEX 2-6
Page 6 of 14
Table 1
Assumptions for the Compte de Mobilisation
Progressive Loan Payments
1.   IBRD loan:  20 years, 7.92%. 5 year grace period.
2.   USAID loan:  30 years, 7.25Z, 10 year grace period, 3 year interest
grace period.
3.   International others:  7.0Z, 5 year grace period (beginning after the
project period).
4.   Long-term internal:  10 year balloon, 7.5% (chiefly after the
project).
5.   Medium-term internal: 4 year balloon, 6.5Z (beginning after the
project).
6.   BSIE transfers:  capitalized and in equal share as international loans
from 1987 to 1992.
7.   Refinancing ratio:  80Z of total amount disbursed.
8.   Repayment scheme to CdK:  loans of 15 year maturity amounting to 75%
of total loans, loans of 10 year maturity (differred credit) amounting
to 25% of total loans.
9.   Disbursement schedule:  75% of amount committed in the first year, 25%
the second year.
10.  BCEAO refinancing scheme:  90% of total loans when eligible.
11.  Bad debt contingency:  1/2 of 1% of the change in the loan portfolio
outstanding, cumulative.
WANWL
February 1987



I-o
961 A29nzqvA
fluId
W91      1116      1111    11*L!   19491   6019!    91091   16911   4619!   NL1      11*i    Z01 I   s1zz!   *66      IM9    E9o      46                        0311a6 Iw!    Wiol
__~~~~ .        . .  ..... . ..... _._ ...................... ....... .... . .... ............... . ... .... .... .......... . .............. .. .. _.. _._.........
t1       1119      t1      UU1      19    1Am       01t     96t     M1t    *I6t    IZIS     t6      O*Z     8691    S001    li9     o0f                                 $11) )103 2I
IItI 9S9L           *06     Z61 UL    9 z   IISt    Sif6      Llt*   091*     Mt0*   94t     01t     91t     0S090Z  9z9              05f                                 ;9Lu 1t3@'
uth"     o061       960     9f14    Dm      nu11     cm      st      9*     611    6Z66     Kit!    M0e     166     66Z6    6161     1901                          '11u' N021 al"p
16661     3911 t   110     163* tsos       19t 61   Olt     M*t     696*    *si    0*0t    0361     169t    06t    190f tCCZ        0f11                        ,1lIVR JapiI  Iji9mF
________~~ . . . .......... .......... ....... .. . . _. _._. ........_ . _. _............. ....................... ..........................................................................  ...... ........ .. .._ _
6II6      91*'      Atol1   ISLI     LLKI   1991    t9l9l  86USI     OSI    63t61   91*l      0ok1. *  6ZI   0tl01   6561     95C Hi 19  sn                      1111102 IN     1U WIll
1*61      10t6      *Z       *6    Ltg*     1t*      L*1    1*36     1*Z     L* 12      Z      UL     1462    *LI     LL6     006      00'                       UDU10 'Wil
__ _ ___ ... ... _. ..               ....  ._. ... ..  ... .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .._... .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. ... .  . .. .. .. ..
ta 11*    69        1ZU     lIl     6L1     lIff    *IS      A*1     9itt    911    6*11     O90     "L1     6061    S011    tOL      01o            206            1Pa -piJ 9vrO
1ll      Nu        19     p       19      p9       196     96     96     96     96      t9b     006     009     00o0t VOS        01      01'I                           jw
6t't   0"'I      Z'      LI't    SO'*    *b'    "It     L't     t9'1   t9'1    11 H'      1     Cel     tilt    "I't    O0' It''                   '     1"'3 M1
M36       tLS l     Kit     Ho6*6*   1l9     *1S*    st*     Cott    "it      to0    1941    911     3Oct     0LUZZ   61       LU      LIIS           11W            J1P6 'tuJ 1wVCU
01411     666       9      9      96     96     96       96     96     96     9       96     0ob     009     08       Oct     01      0'I                             D  Il
toll    It's    fIl'     Is'     It's    it's    II's    66'      til     I ItN'  S'ti     St'i    1t't    1til  Ot Wl't 00n                            *110 11136
HO 6        IIl     t11it   t"      tUS     Hit      L3ff    LSSt    06*1    161t     *it    L1Zt     16      OL9Z    OLt0116  9606    31*11          Nto            ;IPJX   J  1v
Kit       ml        fIt     11     1"       ltt     1*1     li      II      (1   tt     ltt lit      36t     00     ILI     01       Sll     011 AI9pv
SO'Il   L941     3'*1    6'tl    Ig'I   Sl'tl   it'Z1   SG'ZI    It'ZI   O1'!!   9't It'll       LL'OI   t*'01   El'0l    00'01         (.3f   S1" )    '1 'fIPPI
WE6     1 61*       LM      O0S     1LIU    19*      1*t     Bill    ou6       *     690*     6t    t 99m   931t   Z61t      U6Z     OZI             %t0           16J3 *IIJ 1V
flit   -9111        an      auZ.    O66     OOZ     htZ     O6Z     OU      06      O      O0Z      996     *I6     ZtZ     O0Z      g6l     OS'I1                            wn
Z9'916  I'       It*'ll  tl'OZ   U'OZ    U't61   61'61   L9911    911t    L9'1I   OZ'LI   t9'91    91'91   19151   O'lIt   00'1I         (.3ft  SIt  J#Pllpq Iidtli
000'l   6L9*'l   UZ6'I   U  'l 611   'I  Hlt'l99  U6L6'!  W      OI 9Zlt01 LI'6! 6'  *9*!'!  91'I  sLO    I 0'! N0'  1 1 10'!                            u
IuL'Z   UL'Z'Z                                           UtlZ' IL'Z  181' - ZIL'6  Hill  ll S1'6  R' L UIL'l  L'I  I8l'1  2'8  6tZ't  21'9                  uluIlIVI
~~~~~~.__!_.___ .             ................................................................... _.__ .....................................
itN1L8Ibl 11661-LuII 1006  0006     6661   s3I      L61     9I66    S1W     t*6      t46    646     1461    o06      661     141    166!       pH1013 I             IM        I 39IDA
___~~.         _ .............            ............................................... .......................... _.._..... ...... ._... _. _._. _. _..........................
Will ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~~~Xlnll              30 iIS
INI'IVIflIIW  OINI                                    Ost 1d10o. 3iq D                   1.
12310  MlVtObI                                       Olt* 06    66 un!b 01- I SiJiap wa BIJ 2
3116Al do 31102                                      06       i 9   Si C1*-1 IvY ep U sJit I
________S 11qi (                                                            1* CI  f   J&!u  t
z *TquJ.



Otifll  I'S91I  01L1  *161     ANNf0   DIM~*    C9-0ill   604119  i01419 *  ' 01 91 f01*f   1*1111   Kl'419  lI6Ilg   it-it               IA    V   IV3)  U31 u   31O1 13N
f ~~**~3  1 'I ..  I...II...*....I I..   I. (.......I I....  I .....  *.   *3 1) I....... I  **.....3  I....... II....  I.......II.......
11119  j9*9  3*DIM    l9'm     1893l    WM91     91iYLO  0*1101I  60181!i  ilfi8il  19*C1io  9189    *115*l  0010r8   48!                             I *l1     b2i 
04*33n   W911lt   48*93   ff*f14j  ilcm     C9 W818   4168   lON 101   611lt  Ui*0I   9t1*91  i9frz3   g3109f   fflti    uli13S5113d1 will
OVZWl    111*11l  tIlf08l  001181  00,1181  OO*4401  flfsl   OO*40    001*89   0010     Q5*Q    00'S     0010     0010     0010                               1UJolvi LhI9)
3800     3ljft    O5*gg   007tc    5518f8   WIN8t    slims   3116!    01t      0516     0010    010      000      Colo     0010                               16"l16I :11918
WIN1     41*j9    W669    Wool 91j    I*4    I't"9  fl*9     l3lf,4   Ejg54    If*0rA   "'6101  "*Ift    V*f5j    "*54     00'                                 luiw
W@0      O's      0055    US       001      555O     0010    010,     00'S     050      18.489  111461   31.9     3ilIe   9Ls04                                    Hi   61115
014051  00990!   OIL"     00159"   5118*   ogL 001     96103  001U!   01.14   011i     0111t    0010     005     0010     0050                     30pw94I*fl)'i4    1101 eo
3.     *j 5.....~  ~   ~~. . ..3I.. .)....Ic... . 3 . ... I...I(c..[..      ...jI......   .. I...I....I(....I....3                            fiJt2vn1pa1
3101    009991  #1*5     O'S"9    #1100    00111    00'33   008LI    C1'14    01'L1    Ol*ff   Old      00d      00-0     00'0                        ohi*q I'um1'I 11101
5jjfj    0.lli  O#141     O'll"    Wt'iS    Willt   0018     K'iLl   WL'4     P11!t    011f     000      O0'0    000      000                          1W Iii ko-iue.4A*vi
01',!!   "IR5    05*jf    00'0     OSld     00.0     01@     0010     0010     0010    00'0     0010     00'S     0010     00'S                       1Wp Uoi) Gwl'I3*U*1'vIUS
013t     "906    00*31    108l     991*j    199 l*f    I"*5  Y&.1     49l      tlf1I T 4*  151    64*       oi    it *f9f  0l'ff                     6W3113 0611913d  Wiic
4p*5g    *40!l   8*1!l    841      16.      0016     0046    00,1     0010     0011     oolt    00lt     oo  00'? 0*       001c                                 (lip") j1ql
90III    *sil   It'll    It'll    1101i   81.01     u's0;    W6'     09*i     01*      114     0431     i,*I     *1lI     511e                           5U3AJq 1'Ir1"03
E             ~~~~~~0589  O's   loll     Wis      Woit     0010    WIt1     "I!t     00 19f   00fft   000!     00581    00,98    00'U    00181O) 09                  Uiqsp       AflhJ)I!OIMP
i'111*  Allis"*  1100t41  010,11   0916439! 43*1     19'13l  t4110t  WULI     199468  l4LULI   LY1I1   91'06L   LtiLII  01'4!1                               UIDOM 111 W3101 f
W1ILD*   Wilft   U1K41    W'lIK    01491M   691'41   19'Lft t4110!  60&L1   19'9488  14'1S1I  L9'f81I  1'Uli   Wlt~1   4l'4t1                      N4AO64 MI 11  VI 340*NID
. 3 . 3 . 3 . 3 . 3  .    3.    .3     .    3.    ***3.   .3 (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .   ....  .. 3.. . ........1
WIS954~      *'jg     *l'*t    ttr     fta)9    fj*ZL    C*4U     **31    WO       9POI     9311     I8'Z1   lb's     00'S                        S0311II Vin"yU 11101
5811c    3481c   aIlt      ll't    1893     Of'"9    111     s 16'M   WG1t     *41"    94'I*    9518     18gIc    84*o    00'0                     1*UIMISIAVI Sil" US 11I'
I.....          3 ....II....II... I  ''3  . . 3.... 3I... I'~ Po ...I*......I. 3....I 3..      3 .... I.'''....3... 11  *....I....                             2414101mmflhu
13111*  8100*  4391S  fUfYif   Eff9ft  4833*!   C0lin[   44644    IOIL*i  390088   10'ffL   Itlk!!  W1119i   3il91*   *1101l                         1INJIMI1 WOI'ial
010'     000      009     0510     00'0     "I's     00'S    Col0     00'S     004      @510    00'S     0010     00'S     00'Ssjq-
itl'lit  it,0""  68193    cofti'f9L t 5811 1   1 48*3 olf 3S Wf  544  I0'1t9   190188  10'9f11  iI'ili   HI9M     3*llit  *'1! l6 II * 1"l1'
mm  918      Smal     sass     MM       na1     as"  mss         Imaams    sall    sass     ease.   .*A&     s.sI     5X.5                                 #&0001*111111111I ..la
log      000     66I      ou4t      46!     9441    1441     *41      1441     zm 8441  O44      0441    484       1641   1141                               1N     3195DOM
*IlVSIllSIi N 314113                                                                                      161l1111 ill
1iAui31   Iml 10133103
WlUd 311161l191m
NICAISo LAO
 'iquj.s 11                                                                                               3191   I     IA



Table 4
ttuD  11e IPOI3 7
THINJ m UUII PwE
PMECtEo1 STATIIINIT OF MEM A Afft3T1O3 OF FIIB
CPU NILLIN                                                                           CUPIPTI K  OILIUATIN
1n11    3911     9m      l9       I99      MI2     9m      394      199     I94     I"97     i9"     I99      200     Ml     -Td.     AL.
it.:     ugsa   smns      mu      12a u   sr gas   also    siam     ss      "as    *   s     &                111111=  g    3-913    57-M2I11
wib tims
larc                                     15.29  2.53     419.34  .25    1015.11  1251.37  1334.0  12209.42  1071.45  94.95  0.27    Ou.   1 612.41   1.141   470.11   2i.03     12330.34
d dot c.timuc,                           113.0   34.73    u.n     ."      144.17 U1.31    220.51  249.9    273.75  21.44   32.17    31.3A   323.91   3.9     3.21        4.6     3193.30
J.4    149.11   5.335   59. a   01.9      65.64  11.50    59.51   797.93  4.51     3.49   9. 501.3 1       552.1    327.10   1999.17   911.25
Tatal Fre  DrWtium                      3.49   373.50  52C.05  3123.22  Im.17 3W.23     4147.73  5127.24  525.14  U17.    7151.14  7704.1i,   1:0., 6117.45  914.25
loti r.f.tr                              329.00  II.      2400.0  240.0e   42*.00  340.0      0.00     0.60    0.00    0.0      00      00       06      0.0      0."    1240.0   3116.
e_mlath                                  2!M.A0   3300.00  500.00   90.    1230.0  35I0.0  3530.0 I3530.00 3500.00 I35360 I.603536.6  0 11   00.0e 13 0  I350.0  350.0
lecrawo 3.:
oIIII lM                                            20      2210     21      30         I       0        *       I        0       0        0       0       0        0      W2*       3200
45.43 Isms                                    0      G4      90      10 00 e  7         0        I       0        I       0       I        I       I        0 *     *                 3 
lserutlul at&w.                              I       0       0        0       0     30       51201   no       30      J70m     s         0        0o      0        00               I079
m43, TrIo kit, ltr.ul                         I       I        0       0        0       0            0       0   e                0 e             M       70        I         o       2130
too frmMt,latarial                            0       0        0     5ee        0     oeo     1000     3500    1200    150O     2100    20       2440    271O     300       5to      3II6I
3120    240      3310    4210      40     430      4 UO32 54        400     3M      200       0      30       340       "       Is"      1410
tZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lm                  w l Ne   sff        112ee   IsW     o 2le 2U10        slio    I"      "M      me       "lM   u4e Ti     SltO     54144
MALI WmtE 2Wi                                     7073    12971 2022      t 2911   M1ill   45   i 5  1127   53,      075     MM       1114  7^5        14111   TI
bue                                                                                                                                      Z               !'! 
M FN.
Wrut
Ta"r          IIn 3.M
Lm   *4lsa, 0    11                                                                     I       I        I *              a *  *6 *  *                     nn * 
tw r mt, Mm                              I       I        *                        4       I        4       I *  *   *la                             ItsSW 0  0  0  0  n 
NWIN fom Idtl iiitwul           I        0       4        I       0       0 
J1 1052            n377       09z 19-x mR7
1 E2319  461     -       1317     01      1321     I* 0314          U       mlSU                                               am         mm
blmE    .U"it In3.e r                  -ll         7 y  -247    -2m3        11   -oU         0      *       -n *1            I"       z       <        m      -z
IILSE~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~i e5                       51      r2      IZ       n7        e      -1      -n2     -5       In     -zu9     -4      -1n     z26         916
MlllEIUII    CE ESm woU                          IZ0      III     25      la      leU      1002    912      Le       in5     54        3      VA      xi       121
tfftiU43 IAIdAtUrsI
le Part. r tltasdleql                    2319.02  049.1 12797."   3975.14 27393.46 37241.211 44331  49913.1i 34750.14 50000.34 O5."5 4J 2730.43 uU 4711.5 144e7.72 n 6,144w
Peltc  . Lou Partoailo                      C00     4.00    4.OO    4.00     4.00    6.00     M.00    4.00     4.00    4.00    4,00     4.00    4.00     4.00    6.00
Cut of Fadr                                 3.71    2.54     2.57    2.52     2.57    2.13     3.21    3.19 4U   1      4.11    5.04     5.13    1.22     5.30    5.73
AnrW   Srcead                               2.22     3.44    3U43    3.40     3.43    3.17     2.72    2.04     1.52   1312     0.94     0.02    0.71     0.10    0.27
Fliciral rtractar  licators
lot crwig ratio                             1.17    2.3      2.31    2.45     2.30    2.17     1.43    1.22     30      1.00    0.95     0.75    0,72    043     0.41
hit as 1 of total caeltalizatln            5e.00    5.07 s15.n2     50.44    54.3    57.10    t3.13    7.33    70.34   73.90   73.33    74.00   7.31     7.31    77.40
Sad Mt proviclo is 7 4f ltom portfolio      0.50    0.50     0.50    0.50     0.50    0.50  o0.s       0.50     0.50    0.50    0.50     0.50    0.50     0.50    0.50
Return . tyltailzad Traufar                 1.27    4.40     7.42    6.35     0.39    5.29     1.71    1.01     7.10    4.20    5.17     3.73    3.64     5.17    4.44



- 50 -            Z         AU2-6
Page 10 of 14
Table 5
COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD WMR11  PRWECI
CDII PROJECT FINANCING PUIII (1997-11)
million CFAF                                               DISDIU.
PRlGRESIVE PAYEIITS                                         1AIS*
Project Fiancing
TOTAL HOUSING LOMIS DISU   D                              39,241.05
Comercial Bnks Participation                                7649.21
Loans Repaymnt                                              1659.18
TOTAL CON FINIYCING NEEDS                             29,933.66
kSWrces Idetified
Nit cash flow from operations,net af debt contenecies    1,99.17
ISlE transfer                                           12,100.00
Im   proposed loan                                      12,100.00
TOTAL                                              26,199.17
TDTIL FINANCING (SAP) SURPUS                          (2,734.491
Additinl Rsource Nbbilization Plan
Projected loung-term borrouing, inteal                     500.00
Projected long-term borroving, intrnational (US-ID)      3,200.00
CNJLATIVE BALANCE END OF 1991, (GAP) SULPLUS                 965.51
WAEWU
February 1987



UC           161-        19L-         tOll-        tOll-        t1l-        OOIt-        0514-        Slit-        liSt-        tt-        t9t-         0                        1          Il-V'31 31 13W I  i 3lI1V
M     Ut     911          lit          lOt         6OC C01                  oaf1         itS-         S1-          UCIt-        ltUI-        9!-         0                        1                              3miW
tolIS        W9            tilt       56991 gilt                11*11        119l        Kill         919!                      lit         19ti         0                        1                            (fI Wm
1I5S         IOOS         tiSt        01           llSt         fliLt       90t          ILI          Oct          IC           lOIl        lit          0                        1           I'*P't1sll I3Nf   l  1101
I            0            0           0            0            0           0            0            0            0            0           0            0                        I                        6 II  urfill
o            0            0           0            0            0           0            0            0            0            0           0            0                        I             1i"a
o            0           0            0            0 e                      0            0            0            0            0           0            0                        1 o9 oll oVAI
. .. ... . .. . _............................................................ ............................................................................................. ............................................................. .............
661          sit          Ott         IIt          Kg           SLt         9St          UZ           6Z           091         0O           0            0                                                       p 91101
_ ............................................................ _............. ..... ................................. z. ------------------
o            0            0           0            I            0           0            0            9            Of           &t          0            0                        I                             LAPS4
61           lSIt         Ott         ttl          95           91t          9t          Lit          5Z         01           0           0            0                        1             luibJl0    MO IShIfV
I                  93511N13 IVIMId
.          .... . .. _._ ..................... _............. .           _............................................ ................................... ....... I---------------- -_-
-m l                      I           lZ           19           olt         00           cOt                                                                                      I Itl  Ul  O  O  Ifl  Al n Zj
51         gIg           Sit         Sit          Sit          991         ltt           191         191          911           91         0            0 I 1JvlvU3^j3                                        13 1i1fS
III          Gil         Slit         Cll          Sit          iZI          LI          CSI          oZI          so           S3          0                                     1                      4119)(1'0'i'Sl
e! oi                     o                        oiii  soi oit  :11  :11  ci  0                                 Il
001          Wl           W0I         00I          001          Ztt          ttt         901          S6           iS          9t           0                                     I                 VIl'm''i'oA'3
1                  13913J13 UuII1l3tO
~~~~~~.                  ......... .......... ........ .......... ....... ........... . ......................................................- I------------1------------------ -----------
*            I            0           0            0            0 19                  LUSt          UICL         IISt         609Z        19Z          0                        I Lilt!            PJIojd    IP  to
it           1tt   Mt                 no           9th!         S1          MiS          Slt          1EtI         tiC          109         91          0                        t I          AVe JJ43          q 1wil
_._._ .................             .... .. .......  ........ .. . .. ....... ........ ....-..  .......  ........ ..............   ........  ....... .......  ........  ...-I.. ....... ....-.-. ....... .......
SKI          0t11         SlOt        016          NL           1o0          Ott         919          tit          Bit          it?         I1           0                        1                 '1UP  101103 *2iJd
ill          llK          lU          illU         1St          61i          LI          11            1it        tIOZ          911          it          0                        I                uInIdvo3 lI,OANJ
I
liS          tll9Z        ll           i           tILt IUZ     tOt         Zlil CZI1t                            Lou           tit          it          0                        1                       l   i'o;-qq
lILt         lilt        tIla          till        till         *101         MlEt        1101         419          0           0            0            0                        I                 'uoit'J0if *a094j
o            0            0           0            0            0            1*01         list        SSSt         150          t91t        911          0                        I                soiWft*i   1X!J4
o            o           o            o            0            0           0            0            0            0            0           0            0                        1                sVl}iti1l0 J   JA3
ICLIS        l919*        IL10       llSSS       110        O0ICC        lin1         CLIII        OCt9        USlC        6t            0            0                        I                              V 1 )
tin5         II1S         UIIS        OOS          tSNt         661I        91fL         t9S          tIlt         6691         KtS         0            0                        I                             Pt It1)1
09 C          1           ilt         OCt          60t          IZ           I I        SIf                       0            0           0            0                        1                   HA1i    M SIAniI
ti-          991-         91-         itt-         htz-         1s-          LOt-        tI-          601-         66-          tt-         0            0                        150oo-            :lalltom    I" i wpi
99II         ZCCI         Oli        Itil         toll         0191 t      Oil           Ul1l        SU           tiLt        tO           0            0                       I   OC0               siets go llSd
lcut         COt          116         NILt           K 1O9       0          5919         9111         Lilt         ffZI         IL9         0            0                        IjuliSS     V143              It   I
6901         490          1901        4901         6901         0611        1111         lift         1131         91(1         li9         Q            0                        flIWSUf    on1                it II I'!
.... .  .. _.... __ ......... . _............. . _...... . ................. .......... . ..... . .......... ................ ......... .............. I-------                                    ------- - -----
690t         6901         690t        4901         9OC          19L         *StI          1           0            0            0           0            0 I                                        00IU il*    10nl09
o            0            0           0            0            1161        6861         g0ot         LiSt         9111         19         0            0                        I                         IOWJ j"umo
o            o            0           0            0            0            0           0            0            0            0           0            0                                         %I1V4       JJW
11N131915 lWlIIYIIIi 0313310W
311510.1 310D
9  GI IVI



861 A2vn2qvj
001          00,1          96C          NO           ll'L                                              OhIPJ - u1ADC lo       p 
WLO           L'O          910           l'O         96S0          91S0I                                               IIw     1A0q
166          tZ16          isle         OIL          "'1            0'L                                          (II U         to *}81
UI6          9661          Sul          tMI          6A           164?                                         toia.  ql s Api,l w)
LII          cut1          UKL          Om9          KUL          LitK          01*1         C?            11           got           06           0            0                         1   *hMA,1D3 ISSVPI1WU1
~~ I         6t9           Ill~~S       0            0             C            0            0            0             0            C             0            0            0                         IPWibI1AJAllPAS                    i2tp?P
l~~~~~~~~lm
!            CU!           116! Kt        It Om1M                 0I01          00*1        O0L             Otl         t0o          006           0            O                         I    fi       )A t  pWH   iIMd u      i
n   a        o             e            o~~~~~~~Kt   oM            oo           ova          ooi           o l          ook                        o                         IA |*lvA:iw Ionl ON
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... . ._.... . ............................. ....................... ........... s.... %|. st .... ws. . ........ _                                                            g. O
611          t0           ml           tIl          191           0            0            0             0            0            0             0                                      1                    1i tAwI    i   ll1
61      U           08I          9I           191          0            0             0            0             0            0            C                                                                      g"l tN
I     IielPIi?dI   uu1,kuq   vi.i
0            00C           Ora          Oil           006                                                 I                               ml
I                     P1jX111AIw 6W5
I
6b           Kg              ".t                        L-         L9           W   '        001-          001-         L641-        *13-          0            0                         I01                 (     311 NII
ut           9!            itt          lOt         6uz             lIN         VA.          cu-           1I1-         Lill-         CiII-        C            0 o                                                    IAN     IN
_ - - - -_                        .... _             ...... . .. . ...... . .. . ... ..... .............._........ . ..._... ...... . .. .. ...   ...... .      ....... . ...... ._
#b131>1 : lOUlblt "13m-111
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                      _. ... .   .... .   ...... ....... . .... ..._ ............ .  _. _. ... _. _. ._.__ . .... ....... .... .. __ ...._. _.___. _. __.___.... ........ ....... .   ....... .  - 
019          go9           oil          019          019           019          IN9          019           019          sit           Ott          In           0                         I                          ilvh1E
*            0             0            C            C             0            0            0             It           St            "9I          lY           6 4,i
0            o             e            C            0             C            0            C             0            0             tzlI         I9                                     I                    Ioll)atiPKl
0            0             0            C            0             C            0            0             St           ct            to                                                  I            *     1IV     " lW9   1
._ . ........................... ............. ............................................... ..................................... ............................................................ ..................................................... ... _ _ __
L64A         9I             661 56U                 MS   I Z1il                 1Ibi         OU61          bIbi         861           L61         9S1I         CobI                      I
.............. .................... .................. ............................ ............................... .................................................... ... ........... .................... ............................... ......................................
11)3)31)v1   13N11 W  OIIi 31 4d                                                                          SU1333S l  3I11W 11  SltN19  -11
133!td INIM 1li)1
3)1061.1 3103                                                                                                       11013
L alqul



-53-                            ANM        2-6
Page 13 of 14
Table 8
CUTE D'IYDIRE
THIRD UM PROM
C.T.U. PROJECT FIEING PLAN (19961l9
CFAP NIlLUN                                                 DISISRSEIENT BSIS
I) PROECT
FINIWCING IEDS
Project Operatios                                             14,962
Other perations                                                5,206.95
Tecical ksistance                                                134.16
OIhr Operating Expenses                                        1,239.14
Other Expnses                                                  1,0,.61
Rkvolving Fnd   neratim                                        1,420.17
Total Financig Nek                                        24,051.56
RESOI ID0ETIFIED
Sale of Plots net of profit                                   14,294.35
IBRD Proposed Loan                                             4,500.00
Total                                                     19,794.35
FINANCING (SW) or SUPtl                                       (5,257.231
II) ADDITIINW RESRIBCES
6rants and other Receipts                                        619.
Profit on Sales                                                4,506.42
Total Additimal Resources                                 5,206.39
BCE     (W) or    EPUIS                                          (50.95)
WAPWU
February 1987



Table 9
COTE D3IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PRWECT
CAA/CTU                                                      C.T.U. DETAILED PROIRAN
Type of plot (square setert                NIl/200    Ni/250     N2/250      N2/300     N3/300     N4/450     N4/600        TOTAL
Unit Cast (base cost'                      395.45     468.18     531.82      613.64     696.36     1031.82    1291.92
BDse cost with cros-subsidivation          272.73     340.91     454.55      545.45     691.92    1636.36     2191.92
ABOBO KR1 is              b of units         3500       2100       1300        960                                          7760
gross cost       1384.09     993.13      691.36     527.73       0.00        0.00       0.00       3586
Net cost          954.55      715.91     590.91     469.09       0.00        0.00       0.00       2730
O31B1 I t 11             Rb of units                               1332        883        6152        499        999        9962
Gross cost          0.00       0.00      709.13     540.49    4222.35      515.24    1290.16       7266
Net cost            0.00       0.00      605.28     490.44    4194.39      917.13    2179.00       3276
RIVIERA PAINERAIE        Nb of units                                                                  340        680        1020
Gross cost          0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      350.92     971.64       1222
Net cost            0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      556.36    1483.64       2040
TOTAL PROJECT            Nb of units        3500        2100       2632       1741        6152        839       1679       IU42
Gross cost       1304.09     983.19     1399.54    1066.22    4222.35      B66.06    2151.10      12075
Net cost          954.55     715.91     1196.19     949.53    4194.39     1373.49    3662.64      13047
FUTURE OPERATIONS        Nb of units         1000        600        600        467        1267        200        400        4534
IAnnual)             Gross cost        395.45     280.91     319.09      266.57     869.62     206.36     512.73        2971
Net cost          272.73     204.55      272.73     251.73     663.86      327.27     872.73       3069
DEVELOPNENT PR06AI
6ross hectares           Nb of plots
AIMO KR 16                    247.50                    7760
NJIeI  I II                   430.00                    9062
RIVIERA PALKERAIE              70.00                    1020
TOTAl. Project                747.50                   19642
Future Operations (annual)     193.96                   4534
VPUJ February 1997



- 55 -                    ANiNEX 2-7
Page 1 of 5
COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
Economic Analysis
A. Land Development Protram
1.        Economic justification of the sites and services component.
Economic benefits, costs, and the resulting economic rate of return (ERR)
of the sites and services component are estbimated as follows:
(a) Benefits: all the benefits of the component derive from the
incremental value of the land due to the implementation of the
project. This value itself derives from a land survey done by
SETU in 1984 in Greater Abidjan Region. Densities are assumed to
increase in a linear fashion over a ten-year period. The linear
assumption is conservative since the density is expected to
increase more rapidly during the first five years, but can be
considered as a reasonable approximation.  Traffic improvement
benefits, due to primary roads access have been deducted from the
benefits of the land development scheme to avoid double counting;
(b)  Costs: the cost streams include the costs of topographic surveys
and other studies, the cost of civil works plus an allowance for
maintenance (3% of civil works), the cost of supervision and
maintenance done by DCGTX1ACTUA, and the physical contingencies.
Half of the technical assistance cost is also Imputed to the
project. Economic costs exclude the land costs, as well as taxes
and duties, and no adjustment is made for the unskilled labor
component, or for the foreign exchange component; and
(c)  Rates of Return:  under these conditions, economic rates of
return range from 26.6Z to 29.8X on the three subcomponents
(Km 18, Djibi, and Riviera Palmeraie). The consolidated ERR for
the three components is estimated at 28.5%. The sensitivity
analysis shows that (i) if the costs increase by 1OZ, the ERR
would drop to 21.8%; and (ii) if all benefits are deferred by
one year, the ERR would drop to 18.1%.
B. Transport Program
2.        The economic evaluation which has been undertaken by the Ministry
of Public Works, Construction, Posts, and Telecommunications (MPWCPT) and
DCGTX is based on a comparison of discounted values of cost and benefit
streams generated by the project, all without taxes and duties. Costs
consist of: (a) investment costs including preinvestment studies, detailed
engineering, construction and supervision of works and maintenance,
physical contingencies; and (b) maintenance costs. Benefits accrue from
savings in vehicle operating costs and user time savings subdivided into:
(c) savings generated during actual journey of the vehicles, including
regular stops at non-saturated signalized intersections; and (d) savings
gen_rated through reduction or elimination of waiting lines at saturated



-56 -                     ANUN 2-7
Page 2 of 5
junctions or on congested links. Cost savings in vaiting lines arise
primarily from reduction in fuel consumed by idling engines. All time and
cost savings have been broken down into (e) public transit user benefits,
and (f) private car or truck user benefits.
3.        Two vehicle types have been distinguished throughout the
computations:
(a) private vehicles; and
(b) public transport vehicles.
Private transport vehicles have been lumped together and flows expressed in
passenger car equivalent units (pcus), based on appropriate conversion
factors. Two-wheel vehicles have been disregarded, for they operate only
in small numbers in Abidjan's streets and therefore would contribute only
small economic benefits; this does not detract from the necessity of
properly catering to their needs, especially in terms of safety. Vehicle
operating cost estimates have been based on the 1983 BCEOM study, Couts
d'Exploitation des Vehicules de Transport Routier, vhich derived its
estimates using the BDM model. Following the installation of the level III
of the 1DM model in DCGTX, these estimates have been adapted to Ivorian
conditions and refined. Time values have been applied to bus and car
passengers travelling for work-related purposes. As a general rule, a
value corresponding to one-third of average Incomes has been used.
Running times with and without project have been calculated on the basis of
a simplified link performance model. Waiting lines (traffic congestion)
have been computed on the basis of a simplified mwdel developed for the
Abidjan case. Corresponding fuel consumption is assumed to be strictly
proportional to idling time. AU1 above-mentioned model equations have been
calibrated to fit the Ivorian context. With respect to the economic life
of investments, a period of eight years has been used for strengthening/
rehabilitation works and 20 years for construction works.
4.        All urban transport projects included in the Government's
investment program for Bank financing have been subjected to an economic
evaluation in accordance with the methodology outlined above. The types of
projects for which an economic evaluation have been carried out are:



-57 -                     ANM    2-7
Page 3 of 5
The core program
(a)  stre gthening/rehabilitation of existing roads:
Length          ERR with
District            Designation              (meter)       time savings
Plateau        Boulevard Angoulvant            1330           183.8
Boulevard de la Republique      1630            364.5
Avenue Jean Paul II              250             82.2
Site Propre Bus (Plateau)       1250            41.9
Yopougon       Rue du Marche                   1430           147.5
Rue de La Pharmacie             1550             52.0
Treichville    Bretelles Sud Pont de Gbulle    700            657.2
Boulevard de la Lagune          1700             50.7
Avenue Christiani               1300             99.3
Avenue de la Reine Pokou        1300             42.8
Avenue Laurent Clouzet          1300             50.7
Boulevard Msmadou Konate         720             86.5
Rue des Carriers                 230             66.8
Avenue Ouezzin Coulibaly        1850             78.1
Marcory        Rue Louis Luxiere               1300            31.7
Rue Langevin                    1000            176.3
Rue Blanchard                   1160             30.8
Rue Pierre et Narie Curie        860             50.5
Koumassi       Rue du Lycee Moderne            1170            39.4
Rue Pollerau                     650             33.3
Port Bouet     Avenue de l'Atlantique          800            132.0
Avenue de la Mediterranee        550             64.4
Avenue des Caraibes             1150             54.1
Vridi          Boulevard de Vridi              2200           229.0
Route de la SIR                 3950             84.9
Avenue de la Baltique           1100             85.2
Rue du Canal de Vridi           1650             29.5
Cocody         Rue Mermoz                      1150            52.4
Boulevard de France             1150            147.2
Rue du CHU                      2600            221.5
Rue Booker Washington           1850             73.7
Boulevard F. Mitterand          4200            208.9
Abobo          Route du Zoo                    5600           102.4
Total                50630



-58 -                     ANNEX 2-7
Page 4 of 5
(b) traffic anagement schemes:
ERR v/out      ERR with
District            Designation              time savings   time savings
Petit Bassam
Island and
Yopougon     47 junctions                     n.a.          41.6
Adjame         creation of reserved
bus lanes on
Nangui Abrogoua (700 a)         10.44           56.31
Boulevard Carde (1800 n)
and in Abobo (2550 m)           14.66           17.88
The 1987-1992 investment program
(a) upgrading/improvements of roads:
length    ERR w/out      ERR W/time
District            Designation           ml      time savings   savings
WilliinJaville Macaci-CRS                1100        21.19         23.0
Yopougon       Voie Attie                2920        14.70         18.32
Banco          Rocade Niangon            4000        21.70         28.88
(b)  construction of new roads:
length    ERR w/out      ERR w/time
District            Designation           ml      time savings   savings
Koumassi       Voie ZI                   3050        19.62        24.72
Bietri         Zone IV-C                 2769        17.48        21.76
Riviera        Voie Y3                   1926        15.47        17.16
Riviera        Voie Y2                   2900        14.20        20.20
Deux Plateaux  Bd Latrille               6778        23.10        31.10
5.        All evaluation results have been tested through sensitivity
analyses to assess the impact of changes in main parameters such as
construction costs, traffic growth rates, and benefit assumptions.
Detailed results are available in Division files.
Transport Study for the Greater Abidjan Area
6.        It is appropriate to take a fresh look at investment needs and
priorities in Abidjan following the period of decline in incomes and
traffic growth experienced during the first half of this decade, which now
appears to have come to an end. Present planning studies, such as the
Ten-Year Development Study for the Abidjan Region, financed under the
Bank's 1976 Urban Development Project, are now largely out-of-date.
Population growth is continumng at a high rate, new settlement growth poles



- 59 -                    AN3EK U-7
Page 5 of 5
are emerging, and transport demand is expected to pick up again depending
on the pace of the country's overall economic recovery. New transport
capacity is therefore likely to be required beginning in the early 1990s.
7.        The proposed Transport Study (Draft TOR available in Division
Files) for the Greater Abidjan Area will cover Abidjan itself, as wel. as
the larger surrounding region (Dabou, Anyama, Bingerville, and Grand
Bassam), and will analyze various scenarios for urban development patterns
covering the period up to the years 1995-2000. Detailed proposals for
urban transport investment requirements for 1990 onwards will be prepared.
The study should be completed within about 24 months and about
100 man-months of consulting services have been allocated for it. It will
be a joint effort by an experienced firm of consultants and DCGTL.
WAPWLT
February 1987



-60-                 A3EX 3
Page 1 of 6
COTE D'IVOIRE
TRIED URBAN PROJCT
DOCUZNITS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILe
228.520           Projet de D5veloppeunt Urbain No. 3. Rapport gin&ral, places
228.521           annexes; composaute trmsport plan de situation, composante
228.522           habitat plan de situation, fiches projet; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
D00291            MIrPCPT. Pret de DEveloppement No. 3. Compte de Nobilisation
et Compte des Terrains Urbains, simulations. DCCTX,
Septembre 1986
Financial Sector (IDF Project)
221.947 (A.1)     Les Operations et Rfsultats d'Ezploitation des Banques
1981-1982; BCR&D.
221.947 (A.2)     Banking System: Summary Balance Sheets 1982/1983 and
selected annual reports.
221.947 (A.3)     La Crise de Lquidite de l'Eccnomle Ivoirienne; de Boissieu,
Christian, May 1984.
221.947 (A.4)     La Nouvelle Politique de la Nonnaje et du CrEdit; Central
Bank, February 1976.
221.947 (A.5)     C8te d'Ivoire:  Selected Issues Concerning the Banklng Sector
and the Five Specialized Banks; Dr. Silva Lopes, October 1984.
221.947 (A.6)     La Systame Bancaire de la CSte d'Ivoire; draft, Alain Serge,
December 1984.
221.947 (A.7)     Statistiques Economiques et MonEtaires; Central Bank.
Compte de Noblisation
225.590           Une Nouvelle Politique de l'Habitat Social. Rapport Alphandtry
(Agence Cooperation et AuEnagement); Dgcembre 1982.
225.589           Propositions pour le Financeent de l'Habitat Social en CSte
d'Ivoire; Pierre Mayer, Deceubre 1983.
224.501           Financement du Logement Social, Economique et InteraMiAfre
en Cote d'Ivoire: La Caisse de Nobilisation; Claude Chambard.
(IDET-CEGOS), Noveubre 1984.
224.502           Financement du Logement Social Economique et Interi.diaire
en CSte d'Ivolre: La Caisse de Robilisation; Claude Chambard,
(IDET-CEGOS), Septeabre 1984.



-61-                 AN=   3
Page 2 of 6
224.503           Etude relative & la creation d'une Caisse de Kobilisation en
Cote d'Ivolre faisact suite & l'ftude de la mission Mayer;
Georges Perret, Juin 1984.
224.504           Caisse de Mobilisation de Cote d'Ivoire.  Rapport de
mission: Document de Travail; Claude Chambard, (IDET-CEGOS),
Mars 1985. Projet de Statuts et de Uglement IntErieur.
228.646           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3. Compte de Mobilisation
pour l'babitat; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
D00292            MTPCPT. Pret de Diveloppement No.3. Compte de Moblisation.
Mie au point du bareme de refinancement (simulations). DCGTX.
Mai 1986
SociEte d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains
2-24.505          HTPCPT. R.6forme de la IETU. Rapport de Presentation.
224.506 (1 & 2)   MTPCPT. Etude pour une reforme de la SETU. Rapport et
Annexes. SCET International/SCET. Noveubre 1983.
224.507           HTPCPT. Etude pour une reforme de la SETU. RUsuu6. SCET
International/SCET. Decembre 1983.
224.508           SCET International.  Rapport de mission de MK. Marty et
Canale en C^te d'Ivoire du 23 Mai au 10 Juin 1983.
224.509           SETU.  Programme d'activite 1984-1988.  P. Bodiu, Juillet 1984.
(SETU General)
224.510           MinistPre de la Construction et de l'Urbanisme.  Mission do
Diagnostic sur la Restructuration de la SETU. Ter es de
Reference.
2-4.511          MIPCPT-SETU. Compte rendu de la reguion du Comit& de
Gestion. Janvier. 1984.
224.512           MIPCPT.  Ministire de l'Economie et des Finances.  Ministare
d'Etat IL. Communication au Conseil des Ministres. Objet:
Transformation et Rfforme de la SETU.
225.581           Tand Development Program (Revised Report); P. Bonnet, (OTUI).
July 1985.
223.523           Projet de DEveloppement Urbain No. 3. Composante Terraln
228.527           Urbain options techniques et estimations, cahier des charges;
DCGTX, Janvler 1986.
D00293            MTPCPT. Pret de Developpement No. 3. Compte des Terralne
Urbailn  (simulations). DCGTX. Mai 1986



-62 -                ANNU 3
Page 3 of 6
Transport Component
225.591 (L 2048) MTPCPT/DCGTX. Renforcement de la Voirie d'Abidjan, Mars 1985.
225.592           MTPCPT. Preparation PDU III, Volet Transport, Janvier 1985.
225.593           Societe des Transports AbidjsnAis (SOTRA), Structures et
Activites, 1983-1984.
225.594           MTPCPT.  Consommation de Carburant, Janvier 1985.
224.513 (L 2048)  MTPCPT.  Avant Projet Sommaire, Plateau du Banco, Mai 1985.
224.514 (L 2048)  MTPCPT.   Avant Projet Sommaire, Plan de Circulation Plateau
Nord, Mai 1985.
224.515 (L 2048)  MTPCPT.  Avant Projet Sommaire.   Zone 4 C Bietri, Avril 1985.
224.516 (L 2048)  MTPCPT.   Voirie Zone Industrielle de Koumassi, Avant Protet
D&taille, Mars 1985.
224.517 (L 2048)  MTPCPT.   Avant Projet Sommaire, Plateau du Banco, Voirie
Yopougon Attie, Mai 1985.
224.518 (L 2048)  MTPCPT.   Riviera Africalne, Voie de Desenclavement des
Quartiers Est de la Riviera, Voie Priaire Y 3.
224.519 (L 2048) MTPCPT. Avant Projet Sommaire, Site Propre Nangui Abrogoua,
Prolongement Nord, Avril 1985.
224.520 (L 2048) MTPCPT. Avant Projet Sonmmaire, Parc des Sports - C.H.U.,
Treichville, Mai 1985.
224.521 (L 2048) MTPCPT. Avant Projet Sommaire, Voirie Williamnsville,
Avril 1985.
224.522 (L 2048) MTPCPT. Avant Projet Sommaire, Voies Bus, Mad 1985
224.523 (L 2048) MTPCPT. Piste Education Routiare de l'OSER a l'Ecole
Protestante d'Adjamu, Projet d'Execution, Janviez 1985.
224.524 &         Deuxinme Prcjet de Developpement de ia BIRD.   Societe des
224.525 (L 2048)  Transports Abidjanais.   Diagnostic de Gestion.  SCET Transport.
Coopers et Lybrand. Octobre, Novembre 1983.
224.526           Abidjan.   Service Urbain Ferroviaire.  Phases F et G.  Termes
de Reference.



-63 -                ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
224.527           Vicissitudes et succas de la Politique d' exploitation de la
voirie A Abidj an. Olivier Recard. Bureau de Circulation.
Bureau Central des Etuces Techniques. Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire,
1983.
224.528           Contrat de Programme 1984-1986.  SOTRA (entre
l'Etat de Cote d'Ivoire et la Societe des Transports
Abidjanais), Mars 1984.
224.529           Contrat de Programme 1984-1986.  SOTRA (entre
'Etat de Cote d'Ivoire et la Societe des Transports
Abidjanais), 18 Juillet 1983.
224.530           Mission dtAudit de la SOTRA.  Rapport de Synthase accompagne
des resumfs des rapports exploitation et technique. SCET -
transports urbains, Octobre 1983. No. 83/71.
228.524           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3. Proposition pour
l'6laboration d'un plan de transport; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.525           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3. Composante Transport
Evaluation economique, donnees de trafic; DCGTX. Janvier 1986.
228.526           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3. Prolongement du
Boulevard Latrille; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.503           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3. Vole Primaire Y3; DCGTX,
Janvier 1986.
228.504           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3. Voie Centrale Blokosso;
DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.505           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3.  Vole Principale Anono -
Voie Y2 Riviera; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.506           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3. Liaison Bonoumin -
2 Plateaux; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.507           Projet de Developpement Urbaln No. 3. Voie Est/Ouest - Agban
Indeni$ Latrille; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.508           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3. Prolongement Nord site
propre Nangui Abrogoua; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.509           Projet de DMveloppement Urbain No. 3. Prolongement Sud site
propre Nangui Abrogoua; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.510           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3.  Passerelle pietons Saint
Simon; DCGrX, Janvier 1986.



-64 -                ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
228.511           Projet de D&veloppement Urbain No. 3. Voia principale
Williamsville; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.512           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3. Creation voies bus
Abobo; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.513           Projet de Dbveloppeumut Urbain No. 3. Vole primaire du Banco;
DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.514           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3. Voirie Yopougon Attie;
DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.515           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3. Vole zone 4C Narcory;
DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.516           Projet de Developpeuent Urbain No. 3. Vole zone industrielle;
DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.517           Projet de Developpement Urbaln No. 3.  Renforcement voirie
Abidjan; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.518           Projet de Developpement Urbain No. 3.  Equipemment de feux
tricolores Abidjan; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
228.519           Projet de Developpeuent Urbain No. 3. Maintenance de feux
tricolores Abidjan; DCGTX, Janvier 1986.
SOGEFIEA
224.531           MTPCPT.  Direction de 1'Equipement Urbaln et de l'Habitat.
Cession du Patrimoine de la SOGEFIHA et Redressement financier
de la societe. Etudes prlizinzdaires. Decembre 1984.
224.532           SOGEFIHA. Diagnostic de restructuration. Union
Nationale des Federations d'Organisnes d'Habitations & Loyer
Modtre. Coopers et Lybrand. 25 Mai 1984.
224.533           Ministare de la Construction et de l'Urbanisue. Mission de
diagnostic sur la restructuration de la SOGEFIHA. Termes de
Reference.
S}COGI
224.534           SICOGI. Vente du Patrimoine Imiobilier (lare tranche).
Estimation des charges de gestion et d'entretien.  Forule
d'indexation des loyers. Avrll 1984.
224.535           Societe Ivoirienne de Construction et de Gestion lmobili5re
(SICOGI). N. le Tarnec, D&ceabre 1983.



-65 -                ARM   3
Pege 6 of 6
224.536           SICOGI. Inventaire complet des logausuts pouvant etre vendus
dans le courant de 1'mame 1984. Janvier 1984.
221.982           MIPCPT. Prfsidence de sa Ripublique/Direction et Controle des
Grands Travauz. Vente de logments SICOGI-SOGEFIPA -
Expertise, Mai 1984.
224.537           Soci6tE Ivoirienne de Construction et de Gestion Imobiliare.
J. PlInM.
Other
224.540           Mini-stre de la Construction et de l'Urbanisue. Projet de
realisation de 200 logemeuts econoniques. Etude prfliminaire.
Financement.  Systame de credit fmobilier social. M. Populus,
Deceubre 1983.
224.542           DCVL. Plateau du Banco (zone d'habitat).   Etat d'avanceuent -
note sounuire. Juln 1982.
224.543           SICAG. Etude de factibilite pour 100 000 logements au compte
de la SOPIM. Juin 1983.
D00294            MIPCPT. Direction des Etudes et Progrumes. Preparation du
3ae Projet de Dgveloppement Urbain (DEP - BIRD). Point
actualise sur lea investiasements urbains rEalisfs dans
l'enaeble de la C8te d'Ivoire. Septembre 1985
WAPWU
December 1986



*1 ~        S. iM          A   L I TO*aUg' 6i  /                    4.
-r?  w STo tlm  nn  GQtT  Tu Soaronu
)  f  J 2-.  ,  r  J  P  |  >       ~~B U R K I N A
ToeKatc    T ko                        ellBlob.oDwula,  FASO
10~~~~~~~~i
{  \ l \  t (<  y  $( >    >-      s      5      >~~~~~~uoral 
~~~~5\\\ab d )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onro ) i | i
JCSEOUGOU
LI   E R ! A  * BIANKOUMA
~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ -0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f              Baar :Sr 
DionreIM    Tbsa          nod
-I  - -U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAALAN
SrA~~~~~~~~~
BIANKOUMAM
we   be           DIMBOK     NKo4ob;  ASEN AG
AGB~~~
LAK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



IBRD 19182
C6TE     O'IVOIRE
R K I N A                                       THIRD URBAN PROJECT
FrASO URBAN POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
To Quoagodaug-u
URBAN POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
reh,ni                      \                       \OF TOWNS OVER 10,00:
3o-000
100.000
20.000
-g  X   iEXPRESSWAY
->~ 8   PAVED ROADS
I  <  I- EARTH AND GRAVEL ROADS
BAXAIA N                 \ | X RAILROADS
,                     4g  <   }  *INTERNAnONAL AIRPORTS
\ OTHER AIRPORTS
BOUDOUI  U                               PORTS
P- RIVERS
*D NAnONAL CAPITAL
O  DEBARTMENT CAPITALS
o  OTHER TOWNS
- i  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
oukro CA9be ek        T
- G   H )A  N   A\
-1 D    ,>                 ,, . r  i
~~<  \  OISSO  -                   ) __    ~~~~~~~~~MAURITANIA
SENEGAL                      MAU~.A~ 
~tJ~N  ~     g            _     = F* VBURKINA
-~.aISS,~LJ-     -~     FASO
--\-  GUINEA    '
:,.;  ~ ~ ~~~  .   -   -  : . -   -  -       .    :~~~~~~~~~~  SIERRA* *',
LEONi.~r.~)  ~TE  GHIANA'Z
D'IVOIRE (       *0
AJ,.,,c .,I                        4LIBERIA
"~k~'4 -Gul ofCin.MARCH 1985



4~~ A     s  ,                             i l l# 1  I  u D t Ii  o
} ~ ~ %   %    .,.,.;:,l<      sSsI3e             ii
-     z                                  r.
1-cS.  c 1~                          I.......... r<.y-.v @l ~) s > \ '' 'S3 . . /
5 o 2 W x ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....- $s..........
W Q ! 1  A\ N A  0                           ':
a-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ;i ' .'..........
... '  .        .. .. ,,,.,.,.:.,  \
\ ,,,,,,,~~~~..............', , .... ,t,)x 
*1*  -,  --7.',',i,,R,          pW*;,tW,,@;'
C,'IANAI  >   I                              -z-  , E hm m
IV      I.t                .. ;  .
n   > llrB  49. 8a\>*s+R;f~~11J* I i4'1 aQMa  -. S 5.;,'-l,-t_.      ! 



IBRD 1911
COTE D' IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
GREATER ABIDJAN AREA
LOCATION OF MAJOR PROJECT COMPONENTS
Third Urban Project         First and Second Urban Projects (Copleted)
Road Construction          Road Construction
Traffic Improvenment       Traffic Improvement
/ \. ::-  Land Development  ........ Trunk Sewer
Neighborhood Upgrading/Sites and Smevices
A     Community Focilities
L   Urban Areos
-                     Major Roads ond Streets
-'-------Railway
i. ---    Municipal Boundories
* *  -                                                      - --_ -   !Intemationol Boundaries
inorurin
BINGERVILLE 
l%RC~~R
-               _~~~~~~~~~ \ / -" -
GRAND-
uineo                                                                  .                  BASA
MARCH lEIW






