Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14589
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
(LOAN 2789-IVC)
MAY 30, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Period average)
Currency unit:    CFA Franc (CFAF)
1986: US $ 1.00 = CFAF 346
1987: US $ 1.00 = CFAF 301
1988: US $ 1.00 = CFAF 298
1989: US $ 1.00 = CFAF 319
1990: US $ 1.00 = CFAF 272
1991: US $ 1.00 = CFAF 282
1992: US $ 1.00 = CFAF 265
1993 US $ 1.00 = CFAF 283
1994: US $ 1.00 = CFAF 555
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
C6te d'Ivoire    : Jan 1 - Dec 31
CAA/CDMH        : Oct I - Sep 30
CAA/CTU          : Oct I - Sep 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO         - Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BSIE          - Budget Special d'Investissement et d'Equipement
CAA           - Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CDMH          - Compte de Mobilisation de l'Habitat
CFD           - Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CTU           - Compte des Terrains Urbaims
DCGTx         - Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux
FSH           - Fonds de Soutien de l'Habitat
MCU           - Ministere de la Construction et de l'Urbanisme/Ministry of Construction and
Urbanism
MB            - Ministere du Budget - Ministry of Budget
MEF           - Mim'stere de I'Economie et des Finances Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPWCPT        - Precedent Ministere des Travaux Publics de la Construction, des Postes et des
Telecommunications/Former Ministry of Public Works, Construction, Posts, and
Telecommunications
MPWT          - Ministere des Travaux Publics et des Transports/Ministry of Public Works and
Transportation
SETU          - Societe d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains
SOTRA         - Societe des Transports Abidjanais
TEP           - Taux d'Escompte Preferentiel
USAID - HG   - United States Agency for International Development - Housing Guarantee
Program
VAT           - Taxe a la Valeur Ajoutde



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  .........................................................................................................................
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ....................................................... I-IV
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...........................................1
Introduction              ........................................................                                                      1
Project Description  and  Components ........................................................3
Implementation  Experience  and  Results .                             .......................................................6
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned                                                                       11.................... 1
PART  II - STATISTICAL  ANNEXES                                                       ....................................................... 13
Table  I          Summary  of Assessments .................................                               ...................... 13
Table  2         Related  Bank  Loans and  IDA   Credits ................................................. 15
Table  3         Project Timetable                    .......................................................                         16
Table 4    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..................... 16
Table  5    : Key  indicators for Project Implementation .......................................... 17
Table  6    : Key  indicators for Project Operation    .................................................. 17
Table  7    : Studies Included  in  Project .......................................................                                  18
Table  8A: Project Costs ....................................................... 19
Table  8B: Project Financing .......................................................                                                 19
Table  9    : Economic  Costs and  Benefits .......................................................                                   19
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants in  Loan  Agreement ................................... 20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................... 22
Table  12: Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................................                                      22
Table  13    Bank  Resources  : Missions .......................................................                                      23
APPENDIXES .......................................................                                                                               24
A.  Mission's Aide-Memoire                                ....................................................... 24
B.  Borrower Contribution  to  the  ICR  .......................................................                                      25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
(LOAN 2789-IVC)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Urban Project
in C6te d'Ivoire, for which Loan 2789-IVC in the amount of US$126 million was
approved on March 24, 1987 and made effective on August 4, 1988.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, eighteen months after the original closing
date of December 31, 1992. The final disbursement took place on January 18, 1995, at
which time a balance of US$7.7 million was canceled.
Apart from the government counterpart contribution and the financial participation
by beneficiaries (down payment and acquisition of plots), cofinancing for the project was
supposed to be provided by financial institutions and a USAID loan (Housing Guarantee
Program).
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Jean Mazurelle (task manager for the project) of the
Infrastructure Division, West Central Africa Department of the Africa Region. It was
reviewed by Mr. James 0. Wright, Chief of the Infrastructure Division, and Mr. Franz
Kaps, Operations Adviser of the West Central Africa Department.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in October/November 1994. It is based on material in the project file. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR, and provided its own evaluation of
the project's execution (Appendix B), and commented on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
(LOAN 2789-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
1.   Bank's Role in the Sector. Government's policy in the urban sector during the
decade prior to this project had been to reduce regional disparities in economic
development by improving urban infrastructure and services and to promote the efficient
use of existing facilities. Bank Group lending supported these objectives not only through
the First and Second Urban Projects but also through the First and Second Water Supply
Projects, the First and Second Sewerage and Drainage Projects, the First and Second
Small Scale Enterprises Projects, an Industrial Finance and Development Project, and the
First and Second Tourism Projects.
Project Objectives.
2.    Neither the SAR nor the Loan Agreement clearly spelled out the objectives of the
project, and during the course of project implementation the Borrower and the Bank had a
somewhat different understanding of what the objectives were supposed to be. For the
Bank, as spelled out in various supervision mission aides-memoire, the main objectives of
the project were defined as: (a) implementing a new housing policy aimed at: (i) shifting
part of social housing investment from the public to the private sector, and (ii) launching a
new land development program for the housing sector without government subsidy; and
(b) maximizing the efficient use of the Abidjan transport infrastructure in order to reduce
in-city transport costs. The government's objectives emphasized the reorientation of
policies and programs in the urban sector as well as in the transport sector. Regarding
housing, it referred to a shift to the private sector and the promotion of home ownership.
In the context of C6te d'Ivoire, based on the Central Bank's (BCEAO) ceiling for
refinancing, and as reflected in the Loan Agreement and the SAR, social housing
(logement &onomique) included relatively expensive houses (any house that cost CFAF
15 million or less - or slightly less than US$50,000 at the exchange rate prevailing at the
time).
3.    The objective for the urban transport component was clear and realistic.
Regarding housing finance and land development, the only objective on which there was a
clear understanding between the Borrower and the Bank was the reduction of public
expenditure and subsidies and shifting the burden to the private sector. This objective was
important for C6te d'Ivoire, and for the Bank's country assistance strategy. It was
realistic, but implementation was complex, and demanding for the government and the
implementing agencies. The objective of providing land and shelter for lower income
households was much more ambiguous. The only loan covenants or agreements that were



_jj-
expected to promote the achievement of that objective related to the selection criteria and
modalities for the commercialization of serviced plots.
4.    Project Description and Components. In addition to studies, training and a pilot
credit program for micro-enterprises in the informal sector, the project consisted of three
major components: housing finance (Compte de Mobilisation de l 'Habitat [CDMH], to
be implemented by Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement [CAA]); land development
(Compte des Terrains Urbains [CTU], to be implemented by CAA and Direction et
Contr6le des Grands Travaux [DCGTx]) and urban transport (to be implemented by
DCGTx). The CAA was responsible for the project's financial management, and DCGTx
for the project's implementation.
5.    Loan Covenants. Agreements with the Borrower were reached on the main
issues, namely, that the Borrower would: (a) make proceeds of the loan available to
CDM:H to refinance subloans by participating banks; (b) open and maintain in CAA a
Compte des Terrains Urbains (CTU), (c) maintain and repair the road network in the
Greater Abidjan area, and provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required to cover, starting in 1992, the full maintenance costs of traffic signals, road
markings, and traffic signs; and (d) carry out land development program and ensure that
serviced land is sold in accordance with agreed criteria and terms.
Implementation Experience and Results.
6.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. Project implementation
was unsatisfactory with respect to the setting-up of workable and self-sustaining
mechanisms to encourage the participation of the private sector in the financing and
marketing of developed land and housing, "social" or otherwise. The "Studies, Training
and Pilot Program" component was successfully implemented. Physical objectives have
been exceeded for urban transport infrastructure but have not been achieved for home
ownership and plot development. The reliance on the government budget was reduced, as
government contributed only a very small fraction of the estimated counterpart funds.
Financial objectives have been achieved only partially, and the achievement of the
institutional development objectives has been negligible. The urban transport component
can be considered a success. On the other hand, the implementation of the housing
finance component and the land development component was unsatisfactory.
7.    On balance, the sustainability of the project, has to be rated as uncertain. Despite
the apparent interest of the Borrower in sustaining some of the achievements of the
project, (mainly CTUs and CDMH), and the recent contribution of a donor (Caisse
Fran,aise de Developpement - CFD) to the housing finance component, there are a
number of uncertainties, particularly regarding the land development component where a
shift to the private sector will take place only if there are changes in the policy
environment. Government commitment to such changes has yet to be demonstrated.
8.    Project implementation was affected positively by the professional competence and
experience of the CAA, in charge of the project's financial management and the DCGTx,
responsible for the project's physical implementation, and by the flexibility shown by the
Bank to increase the disbursement percentage and to extend the closing date after



-i.i.
agreement was reached on an action plan. The major factors that negatively affected
implementation were the very difficult economic and financial situation of C6te d'Ivoire
resulting in the devaluation of the CFA franc in early 1994, the lack of liquidity of
commercial banks and the lack of government counterpart funds, the hostility/competition
between the central administration and DCGTx, the lack of clarity in the division of
responsibilities between CAA and DCGTx for the land development component, delays in
procurement and in the signing of deeds of plot sales, unsatisfactory accounts for the land
development component, and the reluctance of government to implement the agreed
privatization of land marketing.
9.    Summary of costs. At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated to be about
US$304.2 million, with government and the private sector contributing up to US$62.2
million and 106.2 million, respectively. At the closing of the project, the Bank had
financed US$118.3 million, and the government US$30.4 million. Private funds which
were expected to recover the cost of land and plot development did not materialize since
only 4000 out of 18,500 were developed. The total project cost therefore amounts to
US$148.7 million. The breakdown of the project's costs by project component is given in
Table 8A.
10.  Implementation Schedule. The Loan Agreement became effective on August 4,
1988, about 17 months after the project was approved by the Board on March 27, 1987.
The project was closed on June 30, 1994, after two extensions had been granted to the
Borrower from the original closing date of December 31, 1992.
11.   Assessment of Bank's and Borrower's Performance. Bank performance was
highly satisfactory at the identification stage, less than satisfactory during preparation and
appraisal, and rather deficient during supervision. Three different task managers were
assigned to the project supervision, one of whom lacked the appropriate expertise,
especially for the Housing component of the project. Borrower performance was
satisfactory for project preparation, somewhat less than satisfactory for implementation,
and deficient with respect to compliance with covenants. The professional competence of
DCGTx helped project implementation in many areas. However, on the government side,
the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism (MCU), as "the Owner" (Maitre d'Ouvrage)
should have been primarily responsible for the project. With the assistance of DCGTx as
"the Engineer" (Maitre d'Oeuvre), MCU could have worked more closely with CAA and
with private banks and promoters, and it could also have delegated to DCGTx the
implementation of certain parts of the project for which DCGTx has a comparative
advantage.
12.   Assessment of Project's outcome. The outcome is highly satisfactory for the
"Urban Transport" component and the "Experimental Pilot Program", satisfactory for the
"Studies and Training" component, and unsatisfactory for the "Housing Finance" and the
"Land Development" components. Overall, the project's outcome has to be rated as
"unsatisfactory".



-iv-
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
13.   The project was designed to address some of the most important issues in the
urban sector. It was not expected to resolve all the problems but to test different
approaches which could lead to improved policies and more permanent, self-sustaining
institutions. Overall, the achievement of project objectives is partial, sustainability is
uncertain, and the outcome of the project is unsatisfactory. The question of a future
operation is closely related to actions already taken by government and to the follow-up
actions planned by the Bank. Based in part on the lessons learned from this project's
implementation, there is an ongoing dialogue between the Borrower and the Bank on the
objectives and contents of a possible new urban project (Urban Rehabilitation and
Employment Project). This new project may include additional support for the
CAA/CDMH and the introduction of new financing mechanisms, as well as financing for
the production of serviced plots, provided that there is a clear understanding on the
distribution of responsibilities between the state (land tenure and regulatory framework),
public utilities companies, and the private sector (land development and marketing,
building construction, and financing to facilitate home ownership and the supply of rental
units).
14.   The following lessons, which are relevant for future projects in the urban sector or
in C6te d'Ivoire, can be drawn from the implementation of this Third Urban Project:
*  In order to facilitate implementation and supervision, it is advisable to avoid
complex projects with a mix of components of different kinds and to ensure
that the responsibilities of all parties involved are well defined and clearly
understood.
L  It is essential that project and loan documentation include a clear definition of
the project's objectives, performance indicators, and a plan for a mid-term
review.
*  A project relying on private sector participation should not be designed
without extensive prior consultations with the private sector itself or without
conclusive evidence that the government is indeed committed to privatization.
*  No matter how well designed the instruments might be, a private sector-
oriented housing finance system, encompassing the production of plots and the
construction of houses, cannot be fully successful if the policy environment
(particularly the regulatory environment) is not conducive to private sector
participation.
*  The Bank should pay more attention to the continuity of staff working on a
project, ensure that the staff assigned has appropriate expertise, and enforce
essential covenants.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
THIRD URBAN PROJECT
(LOAN 2789 - IVC)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
A.    Macroeconomic Setting
1.1    The Republic of C6te d'Ivoire (RCI) is a lower middle income country, with a
1992 GDP of about US$10 billion. The economy is predominantly agricultural, with
about two-thirds of the country's active population engaged in farming, forestry, and
fishing. The agricultural sector, including forestry and agroindustries, account for about
40 percent of GDP, while generating 70 percent of total export revenues in 1992. Exports
continue to be dominated by cocoa, coffee, and timber.
1.2   Since the mid-1970s, the RCI population has been growing by 3.8 percent
annually, reaching about 13 million by end 1992. High population growth coupled with
economic decline has resulted in a steady fall of living standards. GNP per capita in 1992
was estimated at less than US$700 compared to well over US$1000 in the early 1980s.
Social indicators have also been deteriorating, reflecting, among others, the effects of the
economic crisis, as well as neglect of basic social services.
1.3   The economic decline since the early 1980s contrasts sharply with the 1960s and
most of the 1970s when RCI grew on average by 7 percent annually. This growth took
place mainly because of favorable resource endowments, inflows of cheap labor from
neighboring Sahelian countries, political stability, appropriate macroeconomic policies,
and an agriculture-based and export-led growth strategy. In the May 1977 Report No.
1147-IVC "Ivory Coast - A Basic Economic Report", the Bank analyzed in depth the
country's str.i;ng economic performance during its first fifteen years of independence.
1.4   At the beginning of the 1980s, the country faced a number of serious economic
problems. First, the macroeconomic imbalances had grown to unsustainable levels. By
1981, the budget deficit had reached 11 percent of GDP while the current account deficit
was equivalent to 17 percent of GDP. Second, RCI started to encounter serious debt
servicing problems as a result of the rapid build-up of external debt during the second half
of the 1970s. Third, domestic markets had become increasingly distorted, contributing to
an inefficient resource allocation. Finally, there was a serious deterioration in public
sector management, especially among public enterprises. These problems were in essence
an outgrowth of the period of surge in spending which followed the cocoa and coffee
price booms of 1975-77.



- 2 -
1.5   Prior to 1987, adjustment policies were partially successful in reducing the main
internal and external imbalances due in part to a depreciation of the French franc and,
hence, the CFA franc, and to a short-lived recovery of commodity prices. The main
feature of this adjustment process was the reliance on internal adjustment, particularly the
pursuit of contractionary fiscal and monetary policies. This was manifested in a sharp
reduction of public investment expenditure which fell from 9 percent of GDP in the early
1980s to about 3 percent in 1989-90. In the mid 1980s, the fiscal situation improved
significantly as fiscal revenues surged due to a temporary recovery of commodity prices.
However, with the renewed decline of those prices, the fiscal deficit again increased to
unsustainable levels, reaching almost 15 percent of GDP in 1989. This also reflected a
more fundamental problem, namely the downward rigidity of expenditure, especially of
salaries and wages, and the high debt service obligations.
1.6   The country's renewed fiscal and balance of payment crisis at the end of the 1980s
reflected not only inadequate macroeconomic policies but also more fundamental
distortions in the economy. The latter include: (i) a trade regime that was still
characterized by relatively high tariffs and dispersion levels and a plethora of non-tariff
barriers; (ii) inadequate levels of resource mobilization reflecting the decline in domestic
savings and solvency and liquidity problems of the domestic banking system; (iii)
continued public relatively high tariffs and dispersion levels and a plethora of non-tariff
barriers; (ii) inadequate levels of resource mobilization reflecting the decline in domestic
savings and solvency and liquidity problems of the domestic banking system; (iii)
continued public intervention in the agricultural sector, especially with regard to price
policies; (iv) continued dependence on a few primary commodities; and (v) a generally
inefficient public sector, with limited capacity to provide adequate services as evidenced
by the poor health indicators and low literacy levels. Faced with this situation, the
government launched a new adjustment program in mid- 1989.
1.7   The principal objective of this stabilization program was to reduce the fiscal deficit
and to start clearing up domestic and external arrears while carrying out structural reforms
supported by three sector adjustment operations of the World Bank. Substantial progress
has been achieved in implementing the structural reforms and reducing the fiscal deficit.
However, the stabilization program did not achieve all its objectives, in particular those
related to the reduction of domestic and external arrears.
B.    Bank's Role in the Sector
1.8   Before the preparation of the Third Urban Project, the Bank had been closely
associated with the development of several aspects of Cote d'Ivoire's infrastructure,
especially to support government objectives of strengthening institutional capability and
financial management and, where feasible, promoting privatization. In transport, a Second
Highway Sector Loan was approved in FY85. It was aimed at upgrading the country's
road network, restoring road maintenance capacity and fostering productivity
improvements in the private road transport industry. In the urban subsector, especially
housing, Bank assistance supported government efforts to reduce public spending on
housing finance by: (i) shifting this responsibility to the commercial banking system; and



- 3 -
(ii) creating a revolving fund for sites and services to be sold by private real estate
companies. In addition, assistance was given to finance maintenance and upgrading of the
transport system in Abidjan. A Municipal Development Project (FY89) was prepared as
a first stage in improving the capacity of local governments to maintain existing facilities
and infrastructure and to mobilize fiscal resources. Following a reorganization study of
the water supply and sanitation sector initiated in 1984, a water supply and sanitation
sector adjustment loan (FY88) supported efficiency improvements and financial discipline
by expanding private management of part of the water system. A Rural Water Supply
Project (FY89) was aimed at rehabilitating rural water points and shifting responsibility
for maintenance to the village level. An Abidjan Environmental Protection Project
(FY90) completed a program to improve sanitary provisions in Abidjan and to restore the
city's lagoon waters through the construction of an ocean outfall.
Ul.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS
A.    Project Description
2.1   In addition to studies, training and a pilot program for micro-enterprises in the
informal sector, the project consisted of three major components: housing finance
(Compte de Mobilisation de I 'Habitat [CDMH], to be implemented by Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement [CAA]); land development (Compte des Terrains Urbains [CTU], to be
implemented by CAA and Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux [DCGTx]) and
urban transport (to be implemented by DCGTx). The CAA was responsible for the
project's financial management and DCGTx for the project's implementation.
B.    Original Project Objectives
2.2   Neither the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) nor the President's Report and
Recommendation included a specific statement of objectives. Schedule 2 of the Loan
Agreement on the "Description of the Project" only states that "the objectives of the
project are to support the Borrower's urban development strategy" through the
implementation of the various components of the project. Although the SAR refers to the
"urgency of a far-reaching reorientation of the housing sector and financing to promote
home ownership among the lower income population", it lists the objectives of
government housing policy as reducing public expenditure and subsidies and increasing
private savings and the role of the private sector in the formal housing market. Priorities
for urban transport were for rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing transport
system, efficiency of existing public transport and traffic management schemes, and
improvements to road infrastructure. The main objective was clearly to maximize the use
of existing infrastructure.
2.3    With the exception of the urban transport component, the project's objectives
were not clear, and were subject to different interpretation, not only between the
Borrower and the Bank, but (as it turned out later) also within the Bank. The objective of
the urban transport component was clear and realistic, and that component was also fairly
clear for the Borrower, especially given the capability and experience of the DCGTx.
Regarding housingfinance and land development, the one objective that was clear and



- 4 -
similarly understood by the Borrower and the Bank was to reduce public expenditure and
subsidies by shifting the burden to the private sector. Three comments can be made
about that objective. First, it would have been realistic if the project had not been as
complex. Second, it was important for Cote d'Ivoire to move away from the provision of
housing for civil servants and middle-class households, which contributed to heavy
recurrent public sector deficits and had reached alarming proportions by the early '80s.
Third, it was also an important element of the Bank's country assistance strategy with its
emphasis on restructuring parastatals and privatization of provision and selling of
developed land. In a sense, the project could be considered transitional, a kind of
adjustment operation for the sector, beginning to answer the problems of public housing
financing.
2.4    The objective of reaching lower income households was the most ambiguous.
According to Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement, on the conditions of eligibility for the
subloans, the cost of a house should be equal to or lower than the Central Bank's
(BCEAO) ceiling for refinancing of social housing (logement economique) which was,
CFA franc 15 million (less than US$50,000 at the exchange rate at the time). The term
"social housing" was therefore in contrast with these relatively high loan ceilings.
Regarding the land servicing component, the SAR does not emphasize the social aspect,
but it mentions that the new plots would cost on average US$2,000 per unit in 1986 prices
and that, in establishing the price of individual plots, an element of cross-subsidization
might be introduced to permit sales to low-income groups. In the Loan Agreement, the
only references to low-income beneficiaries are statements in Schedule 6 that the Steering
Committee will ensure that "low-income households get a fair share of development
programs" and will set the remuneration of real estate agencies' services at such level as to
give them incentives to commercialize "all types of land, particularly land for low-income
households".
C.    Loan Covenants
2.5    Agreements with the Borrower were reached on the main issues, namely, that the
Borrower will: (i) make proceeds of the loan available to CDMH to refinance subloans by
participating banks; (ii) open and maintain in CAA a Compte des Terrains Urbains
(CTU); (iii) maintain and repair the road network in the Greater Abidjan area, and
provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required to cover, starting in
1992, the full maintenance costs of traffic signals, road markings, and traffic signs; and (iv)
carry out land development program and ensure that serviced land is sold in accordance
with agreed criteria and terms.
D.    Achievement of Project Objectives
2.6   The ambiguity of the project's objectives and significant differences among the
three major components make the assessment of the project's success difficult. One has to
distinguish between assessments on the project as a whole, reflected in Table I of Part II,
and more qualified comments that can be made on individual components. For the whole
project, achievements related to macro-economic policy were considerable, especially the
shift from public to private provision of housing; they were only partial for financial and



-5-
physical objectives; and they were negligible for sector policy improvements, institutional
development and public sector management (other objectives listed in Table I of Part II
do not apply).
*  Macro policy objectives: the reliance on the government budget has been
reduced beyond expectations, mostly (and ironically) because government
contributed only a very small fraction of the estimated counterpart funds.
*  Financial objectives have been only partially achieved. Regarding the housing
finance component, the CAA/CDMH has not been able to mobilize funds
locally by issuing long-term bonds to institutional investors. The loan from the
USAID - Housing Guarantee Program, which was included in the project
financing plan, did not materialize. On the other hand, the CAA/CDMH has
been able to secure additional external financing from the Caisse FranVaise de
Developpement (CFD). The shortfall in the government contribution during
the life of the project, as well as the delinking of the refinancing rate from the
BCEAO preferential discount rate, prevented the CAA/CDMH from
generating the surplus necessary to become self-sustaining after the project, as
was expected at appraisal. On the other hand, for the land development
component, the CAA/CTU has been able to build a revolving fund, sufficient
for financing a third tranche of plot development. However, both the CDMH
and CTU bear the foreign exchange risk on the proceeds of the Bank loan, and
the financial situation of those two accounts was adversely affected by the
devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994.
-  Physical objectives have been exceeded for urban transport infrastructure but
have not been achieved for home ownership and land development.
-  The achievement of sector policies objectives has been negligible.
*  Institutional development and public sector management objectives have not
been achieved. The CAA/CDMH for the housing finance component has
functioned reasonably well, but its possible conversion into a housing finance
institution with corporate status and direct borrowing authority has not been
examined, as was envisaged in the SAR. The future of the CAA/CTU is even
less clear, as the implementation of the land development component has
suffered from lack of collaboration between the various institutions involved
and from serious deficiencies in management and accounting. The DCGTx has
remained a well qualified and experienced institution, but it was already so
before the project.
HI.  IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.    Project's Success and Sustainability
3.1   The Borrower's report in Appendix B provides a comprehensive picture of the
implementation record for the project, including a description of the problems that have



- 6 -
been encountered. In summary, implementation was fairly effective for the urban
transport component, but less so for the other two main components, particularly with
respect to setting up mechanisms to encourage the participation of the private sector in
land and housing development and finance.
3.2   After a slow start, and despite difficulties created by the sharp increase in the
BCEAO's preferential discount rate and the failure of government to pay its counterpart
contribution, the housingfinance component functioned reasonably well. By the end of
the project, the construction programs approved by the CDMHICAA Steering Committee
corresponded to about 7,300 housing units, and the number of individual dossiers
submitted to the CDNII by participating commercial banks corresponded to about 4,100
housing units. Nearly 3,300 subloans (compared to the SAR estimate of 7,000) had been
approved by commercial banks with a total CDMH refinancing of CFA franc 17 billion.
The average sale price of housing was CFA franc 7.8 million;' the average subloan CFA
franc 6.4 million (or 82 percent of the average sale price); the average refinancing CFA
franc 5.3 million (or about 80 percent of the subloan); the average contribution by
owners/subborrowers 18 percent, and the average length of subloans 13 years. The
average monthly income of subborrowers/owners was CFA franc 290,000. The
percentage of refinancing for subloans was modulated in accordance with the sale price of
the housing and the term of the subloan; the lower the sale price and the higher the length
of the subloan, the higher the refinancing percentage. Despite this incentive to commercial
banks to cater to the lower end of the market, the distribution of subloans was not as in
favor of lower cost housing as envisaged in the SAR. The SAR estimated that 65 percent
of the subloans would be in the CFA franc 2.4 - 3.2 million range; these were estimates
and not targets. They were not incorporated in the Loan Agreement as conditions, or
included as performance indicators.
3.3   Despite those shortcomings, the housing finance component had some favorable
results. It allowed commercial banks to have access to long term resources to finance
housing, so that the number of mortgage loans and homeowners increased. The
component promoted savings mobilization. In fact, the personal contribution of
homeowners was higher than estimated (18 percent vs. 10 percent) because of sales tax
and settlement fees. It also stimulated labor intensive construction, contributed to
economic recovery, and aided the creation of about 10 real estate development companies.
All this was achieved with the government barely contributing any money, and so far there
have been no defaults on subloans made by commercial banks.
3.4   Implementation of the land development component was unsatisfactory. Since its
establishment, the CAA/CTU has financed two large-scale operations covering a total of
4,500 fully serviced plots (as compared to the SAR estimate of 18,500) offered to real
estate development companies and to individuals. The first operation was located in the
commune of Cocody, at Riviera Palmeraie; the second was in the commune of Yopougon
T Ananeraie. All plots had been sold by the end 1994; the selling price was CFA franc
4,100 per m2 for the first operation and CFA franc 5,500 per m2 for the second,
' Throughout project implementation, the average rate of exchange for one US dollar was 288 CFA
franc.



- 7 -
corresponding to a cost per plot of CFA franc 1.8 million and CFA franc 1.7 million,
respectively. The component was not well managed. The CAA/CTU Steering Committee
met infrequently, and there was a lack of coordination and cooperation between the CAA
and the DCGTx. From a technical point of view, the work was well done, although for a
much smaller number of plots than estimated at appraisal. Also, plots were relatively
expensive. Apparently, no efforts were made to contract the marketing of plots to private
real estate agencies, as envisaged at appraisal and as stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
All plots were supposed to be paid in full by the time the work was completed, but this
was not done. Because of delays in developing the plots, and especially because of the
protracted period between completion of the site improvements and construction, a
number of storm water drainage systems deteriorated for lack of maintenance, sewerage
pipes were stolen, and government money had to be spent on public lighting to prevent the
theft of electrical cables. Finally, accounting was extremely deficient. Because the CTU
did not separate transactions for these two operations from those for its other operations,
the CAA has been, and still is, unable to produce satisfactory project accounts for this
component. The only achievement of this component is that, at least before the
devaluation of the CFA franc, profits made from the two operations, were to be used to
finance a third one for lower-income families.
3.5   The urban transport component and the studies, training and pilot credit program
were successfully implemented. Regarding the transportation infrastructure, construction,
improvements and maintenance are somewhat in excess of what was originally included in
the project. Studies are either completed, or being finalized. The informal sector pilot
credit program has financed 354 loans for a total of CFA franc 160 million to small
businesses in Abidjan, with a satisfactory average recovery rate (almost 90 percent,
compared to the initial target of 80 percent). The latest cost estimate is about US$148.7
million, compared to the SAR estimate of US$304.2 million. About 95 percent of the
Bank loan of US$126 million was disbursed and Government provided slightly less than
50 percent of its estimated contribution of US$62.2 million.
3.6   A number of factors, positive and negative, affected project implementation.
However, it is not easy to distinguish between the factors subject to government control
and those subject to the implementing agencies' control. For most of the project period,
one of the executing agencies-DCGTx-acting on behalf of both the Ministry of
Finance and the Technical Ministry, was not reporting to the government on essential
decisions it should have taken. In effect, the whole project was implemented by the
DCGTx, and the leverage and/or influence of the "owner", namely the Ministry of
Construction and Urbanism (MCU), was limited. Differences between the MCU and the
DCGTx was exacerbated by the fact that 90 percent of the DCGTx technical staff
working on the project was expatriate.
3.7   On the positive side, project implementation was affected by the professional
competence and experience of both the CAA and the DCGTx. Procurement, for
example, was fair and transparent. The flexibility shown by the Bank to increase the
disbursement percentage and to extend the closing date after agreement was reached on an
action plan was also an important factor.



3.8   The factors that negatively affected implementation are the following:
*  Among those that were subject to government control: (i) the inability or
unwillingness of government to pay the counterpart funds, which prevented the
housing finance component from becoming self-sustaining as planned; (ii) the
competition between the central administration and the DCGTx, which
contributed to delays in procurement and in the signing of deeds of plot sales;
(iii) the lack of clarity in the division of responsibilities between the CAA and
the DCGTx for the management and implementation of the land development
component and the failure to cause the implementing agencies to keep proper
project accounts; and (iv) the reluctance of government to implement the
agreed sales of serviced plots.
*  Among the factors that were subject to the control of the implementing
agencies: (i) for the land development component, the reluctance of the
DCGTx to adopt technical standards consistent with the needs of the middle-
to low-income households and to phase land development in line with market
demand, the unwillingness of the DCGTx to support the privatization of the
commercialization of plots, and the inability of the DCGTx to keep proper
project accounts; and (ii) for the housing finance component, the
underestimation of the down payment required (including sales tax and
settlement fees) and of the difficulty for households with modest incomes to
make the required contribution.
3.9   Apart from the urban transport component, which is sustainable, provided that
moderate financial allocations are made for operation and maintenance, the project was
considered transitional to support a change of emphasis from the public sector to the
private sector. For the land development component, the change affected only the
privatization of the commercialization of serviced plots. At appraisal it was envisaged that
after project completion, the CAA/CTU would continue to operate without subsidies with
a program averaging 4,250 plots a year. On the other hand, the CAA/CDMH was
considered a new, simple instrument or mechanism that would evolve during the latter part
of project implementation into a more sophisticated, permanent institution in the light of
experience gained.
3.10   A number of factors militate in favor of project sustainability, but there are also a
number of uncertainties. As evidenced by the participation in recent urban sector work,
the Borrower is eager to sustain some of the achievements of the project for a possible
future operation, the Urban Rehabilitation and Employment Project (UREP), which may
involve a reorientation of policies, including privatization of land development and
marketing in order to reach lower income people. With respect to the housing finance
component, participants have incentives to sustain the project (real estate developers and
banks as well as potential subborrowers), and an external donor -CFD-is providing
funds to continue to finance the component. The CAA/CDMIH, or a successor agency,
should be able to mobilize additional internal and external financing, as envisaged at
appraisal. In the future, the lack of government contribution for housing finance will be a



- 9 -
handicap, as it has been for this project. However, provided there is no unreasonable
expectation as to the possible access of lower income households to housing finance
provided by commercial banks withlout government subsidies, there is no reason why the
CAA/CDMH or its successor should not become in due course financially viable, given the
demand for housing and the number of potential creditworthy subborrowers. The
situation is much less clear regarding the land development component, despite the fact
that the CAA/CTU was able to generate some surpluses which are being used to finance a
third operation. The CTU undertook the same kind of operation, formerly done by a
parastatal agency, the SociWt des Terrains Urbainis (SETU); it completed them more
efficiently (although apparently with the same deficiencies in accounting and the same lack
of financial control), but it is still a government monopoly. It seems that a real shift to the
private sector will depend on changes in policy, toward land tenure, for example, plus the
ability of private real estate developers to work as land developers. Those issues have
been the subject of one of the studies financed under the project, and the Land
Improvement Concession bill is being finalized. However, the commitment of government
to such changes has yet to be demonstrated. On balance, the sustainability of the whole
project can be rated as uncertain.
B.    Summary of Costs
3.11   At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated to be about US$304.2 million,
with government and the private sector contributing up to US$62.2 million and 106.2
million, respectively. At the closing of the project, the Bank had financed US$118.3
million, the government US$30.4 million while private funds did not materialize, due to
the shortage of plots provision (4,000 instead of 18,500). The total project cost therefore
amounts to US$148.7 million. The breakdown of the project's costs in terms of project
component is given in Table 8A.
C.    Implementation Timetable
3.12   The project Loan Agreement became effective on August 4, 1988, about 17
months after the project was approved by the Board, on March 27, 1987. The project was
closed on June 30, 1994, instead of June 30, 1992, after two "one year" extensions were
granted to the Borrower.
D.    Bank Performance
3.13   Bank performance on this project was satisfactory at the identification stage,
somewhat less than satisfactory regarding preparation assistance and appraisal and rather
deficient during supervision. As mentioned earlier, the project was very important for
Cote d'Ivoire and especially for its urban sector, and for the Bank's country assistance
strategy. All the relevant issues were identified. The central role played by the DCGTx at
the time must have made it difficult to have a real dialogue with all the ministries and
entities concerned with the housing subsector; also, many unfavorable experiences with
bankrupt institutions and companies (that were being liquidated) militated against
establishing new permanent institutions, and for transitional solutions. Nevertheless,
preparation assistance could have: (i) included more detailed studies of alternative



-10-
proposals for dealing with the issues that had been identified; (ii) provided for more
extensive consultations with private commercial banks and promoters (which are, after all,
the main interested parties in a project relying on private sector participation); and (iii)
tested government commitment to certain aspects of the project (such as the privatization
of land marketing), in order to improve the project design. The SAR should have spelled
out the project's objectives and included a list of performance indicators as well as a plan
for a mid term review. To the extent that certain SAR estimates were meant as targets or
conditions to be complied with, they should have been incorporated into the Loan
Agreement or a supplemental letter. As an example, for the housing finance component,
the SAR indicated that the CAA/CDMIH would refinance four types of housing loans (a
low-cost housing unit program, a social housing unit program, a middle-income housing
unit program, and a "multiple builders" program) with different average loan amounts, but
the only condition reflected in the Loan Agreement (Schedule 6) was that the cost of a
house acquired by a beneficiary should be equal to or lower than the BCEAO's ceiling for
refinancing of social housing (logement &onomique), namely CFA franc 15 million
(slightly less than US$50,000 at the then prevailing exchange rate).
3.14  In its supervision of the project, the Bank adapted to new circumstances. When it
became clear that the government would not be able to provide counterpart funds, the
Bank agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to increase the percentage of expenditures to
be financed to 100 percent; also, the Bank agreed to two postponements of the closing
date. Otherwise, during project implementation, the Bank performance was deficient in
several ways. The failure of some staff to respond in a timely manner to requests for "no
objection" contributed to procurement delays. The Bank did not always assign staff with
the appropriate skills to supervise a project dealing primarily with housing finance and land
development. This may explain why needed adjustments and changes envisaged at
appraisal such as the possible conversion of the CAA/CDMIH into a housing finance
institution, were not addressed, or why non compliance by the Borrower to undertakings
such as the privatization of land marketing and the maintenance of CTU accounts, was not
dealt with more aggressively. There seems to have been some misunderstanding between
the Borrower and the Bank and maybe within the Bank on the appropriateness of the
technical standards adopted in the land development component and on the extent to
which the housing finance and the land development components should cater to the lower
income groups. In retrospect, the Bank should not have criticized the Borrower on these
two points for the following reasons. First, from a purely legalistic point of view, the
Borrower complied with the Loan Agreement, and all bidding documents (including
technical specifications) were approved by the Bank. Second, it is unrealistic to expect
that, without government subsidies, the lowest income groups could have access to
housing if the needs of other income groups are not being met. In any location, there is
considerable mobility in the utilization of the housing stock, and any addition to the
housing stock, even for the higher income groups, benefit indirectly the poorest
households. Moreover, private commercial banks, which are bearing the commercial
risks, cannot devote more than a rather small proportion of their lending to low income
households with less certain creditworthiness, but must diversify their portfolios.
Similarly, for the land development component, it is not unreasonable to start with a high
standard development in an expensive neighborhood (Riviera Palmeraie in Cocody, for



-11-
example, as was clearly mentioned in the SAR) in order to generate resources to produce
less expensive plots in less exclusive areas. The design of the project was based on that
strategy but was touched upon in the SAR only implicitly. It would have been better if it
had been more clearly articulated in the SAR. These issues of whether to reach the urban
poor, and if so, how, may have contributed to a less than harmonious relationship
between the Bank and the Borrower in the context of the project. However, they were
the subject of a very constructive and fruitful dialogue in the context of the urban sector
work that was subsequently carried out jointly by C6te d'Ivoire and the Bank and that
should help to clarify objectives for the next urban project, UREP.
E.    Borrower Performance
3. 15  Borrower performance was satisfactory as regards project preparation, somewhat
less than satisfactory for implementation, and deficient with respect to compliance with
covenants. The discussion in the section on "Implementation Experience" of the major
factors that affected the project is relevant to a description of the Borrower performance:
on the one hand, good professional competence and experience, particularly on the
technical side, on the other hand, government failure to provide counterpart funds, lack of
cooperation between the central administration and the DCGTx and among the
implementing agencies, unwillingness to privatize land marketing, delays in procurement
and in the signing of deeds of plot sales, and unsatisfactory accounts for the land
development component (as a result of which the external auditor refused to certify those
accounts). The strengths of the DCGTx helped project implementation in many areas.
However, on the government side, the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism (MCU), as
'the Owner" (Maitre d'Ouvrage) should have been primarily responsible for this urban
project. With the assistance of the DCGTx as "the Engineer" (Mailtre d'Oeuvre) MCU
could have worked closely with the CAA and with private banks and promoters, and it
could also have delegated to the DCGTx the implementation of certain parts of the project
for which the DCGTx has a definite comparative advantage.
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY
LESSONS LEARNED
A.    Assessment of Outcome
4.1   For the reasons discussed in the previous sections, the outcome is highly
satisfactory for the "Urban Transport" component and the "Pilot Program", satisfactory
for the "Studies and Training" component, and unsatisfactory for the "Housing Finance"
and the "Land Development" components. Despite differences in achievements for the
various components, overall, the project's outcome deserves a rating of "unsatisfactory".
B.    Future Operations
4.2   The project was designed to begin to address some of the most important issues in
the urban sector. It did not pretend to be the definitive solution to the problems, but,
rather, to test a different approach which could lead to more sophisticated mechanisms
and more self-sustaining institutions that could be supported by the Bank and other donors
as well as C6te d'Ivoire. Therefore, the question of future operations is closely related to



-12-
actions already taken by donors and to the follow-up actions planned by the Bank.
Because the CAA/CTU generated some surpluses (before the devaluation of the CFA
franc), the land development component could continue under a third operation designed
to benefit lower-income groups. Regarding the housing finance component which did not
generate surplus, the Caisse Franfaise de Developpernenl (CFD) has provided CFA franc
6 billion to the CAA/CDMH to enable it to continue its operations. Based in part on the
lessons learned from this project's implementation, there is an ongoing dialogue between
the Borrower and the Bank on the objectives and contents of the next urban project in
C6te d'Ivoire, UREP. This project could include additional support for the CAA/CDMH
and the introduction of new financing mechanisms, as well as financing for the production
of serviced plots, provided that there is a clear understanding on the distribution of
responsibilities between the state (land tenure and regulatory framework), public utilities
companies, and the private sector (land development and marketing, construction of
buildings, and financing to facilitate home ownership and the supply of rental units).
C.    Key Lessons Learned
4.3   The following lessons, some of which would also apply to many other projects,
can be learned from the implementation of this Third Urban Project:
-  To facilitate implementation and supervision, it is advisable to avoid complex
projects with a mix of components (such as urban transport on the one hand,
and housing finance and land development on the other), and to ensure that the
responsibilities of all parties involved are well defined and clearly understood.
-  To avoid any argument between the Borrower and the Bank on whether the
project is being properly implemented, and to facilitate monitoring and
evaluation, it is essential that the project and loan documentation include a
clear definition of the project's objectives, a list of performance indicators, and
a plan for a mid-term review.
*  A project relying on private sector participation should not be designed
without extensive consultations with the main interested parties (in this case,
the private commercial banks and promoters) and without conclusive evidence
that the government is committed to privatization.
*  No matter how well designed the instruments might be, a private sector-
oriented housing finance system, encompassing the production of plots and the
construction of houses, cannot be fully successful if the policy environment
(particularly the regulatory environment) is not conducive to private sector
participation.
*  The Bank should pay more attention to the continuity of staff working on a
project, ensure that the staff assigned have the right kind of expertise (para.
3.13), and enforce essential covenants (e.g., counterpart funds and
privatization of land marketing) more vigorously.



-13-
PART I - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of        Substantial    Partial     Negligible      Not
Objectives                                                       Applicable
Macro Policies                 x
Sector Policies                                          x
Financial Objectives                        x
Institutional Development                                x
Physical Objectives                         x
Poverty Reduction                                                     x
Gender Issues                                                         x
Other Social Objectives                                               x
Environmental Objectives                                              x
Public Sector Management                                 x
Private Sector                                                        x
Development
Other (specify)                                                       x
B. Project Sustainability   Likely       Unlikely  j Uncertain
x



-14-
Table I: Summary of Assessments (continued)
C.. Bank Performance         Highly    Satisfactory   Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                  x
Preparation Assistance                       x
Appraisal                                    x
Supervision                                                x
D. Borrower                  Highly    Satisfactory    Deficient
Performance                Satisfactory
Preparation                                  x
Implementation                               x
Covenant Compliance                                        x
Operation (if applicable)      n.a.         n. a.         n. a.
E. Assessment        Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory       Highly
of Outcome         Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
I_I                 I       x



-15-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Credit or                    Purpose                     Year of     Status
Loan Title                                               Approval
Preceding
Operations
1. First     Urban planning and urban transport focusing on    1976    Completed
Urban        Abidjan.                                                   1983
Project
2. Second    To develop the public transport system  and    1981     Completed
Urban        improve the flow  of traffic in Abidjan and,               1987
Project      through a pilot program in the secondary cities of
Korhogo and Daloa, to help implement a balanced
regional development strategy.
Following
Operations
Municipal    To render municipalities more effective centers of    1989  Completed
Development  economic and social development by developing              1994
Project      managerial capacities at central and local levels,
improving   local   resource   mobilization,
overcoming the lack of basic infrastructure and
social services in selected secondary cities and
initiating local development actions.                             i
Municipal    To improve welfare in urban areas, to improve    1995   Credit not
Support      the ability of the national and local governments          yet
Program      to implement and sustain urban services by               effective
establishing improved finance and management
systems,  and  to  contribute  to  sustained
development through environmental improvement
and protection.



-16-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                     Date planned            Date actual /
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                         Oct - 84
Preparation                                                 Jan- 85                Mar- 85
Appraisal                                                  Mar- 85                 Jun- 85
Negotiations                                               Sept- 85                 Jan- 87
Board Presentation                                         Nov. - 85             24 - Mar - 87
Signing                                                    Apr. - 86            01 - Apr. - 87
Effectiveness                                               Oct - 87            04 - Aug. - 88
Midterm Review                                                n.a.                    n.a.
Project Completion                                       30 - Jun - 92          31 - Dec. - 94
Loan Closing                                             31 - Dec. - 92          30 - Jun - 94
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY87      FY88      FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95
Appraisal      10.00     28.90     54.10     79.30     113.30    126.00    126.00    126.00    126.00
Estimate
Actual          0.00      8.08     25.94     54.98     77.18     103.08    112.75     115.29    118.29
Actual as % of
Estimate       0.0%      28.0%     47.9%     69.3%     68.1%     81.8%     89.5%      91.5%     93.9%
Date of Final Disbursement: January 18, 1995.



-17-
Table 5: Key indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's Report  Estimated    Actual
Housing Finance component:
Number of sub-loans (disbursed)                                     7,000        3,300
(a)
Land Development component:
Number of developed plots                                          18,500        4,480
(a) By the end of the project, the construction programs approved by the CDMH Steering Committee as
potentially eligible for financing corresponded to about 7,300 housing units (out of which some will be
built without any loan financing or with financing other than the CDMH mechanism), and the number of
individual dossiers submitted to CDMN-H by participating commercial banks corresponded to about 4,080
housing units.
Table 6 : Key indicators for Project Operation
Not Applicable



-18-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study           Purpose as defined at      Status            Impact of Study
appraisal
1. Preparation    To determine the required   Completed  Programming of future investment
of a Transport   investments and policies on the          for urban transport has been used
Plan for Greater  basis of a program of                   for investment allocations and
Abidjan         investment priorities, to                 preparation of the next project in
develop transportation                   the sector. The economic and
planning, and to promote                 financial constraints have not
institutional development.               allowed the implementation of the
recommendation on the financial
situation of SOTRA.
2. Feasibility  To help prepare a planned     Completed  Helped in designing the project.
study and final   Abidjan Environmental
design for the    protection Project.
environmental
protection of the
Abidjan lagoon.
3. Topographic   To update mapping for        Completed   Used for preparation of the
Studies         infrastructure planning and               forthcoming project.
design.
4. A case study   To develop new information  Completed   The study was integrated into the
of rural/urban    and insights that will help             Long Term Perspective Study
development     facilitate the formulation and            (LTPS) regarding such aspects as
issues.         implementation of better rural            regional migrations, urban
strategies and policies, with            productivity, etc.
particular attention to issues of
resource mobilization, and
investments choice between
urban and rural areas.



-19-
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Components                    SAR Estimate   Actual/Latest
Estimate
Housing Finance (CDMH)'                                  136.3              43.1
Land Development (CTU)                                    40.8              16.0
Urban Transport                                           71.8              83.1
Training, Studies and Others                               5.8               6.5
Sub-total Base Costs                                  254.7             148.7
Physical Contingencies                                   7.7              0
Price Contingencies                                     41.9              0
Total Project Costs, including Taxes                     304.2             148.7
of which Taxes                                            28.5              n/a
Total Project Costs, Net of Taxes                        275.7              n/a
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ nmillion]
Source                         SAR Estimate   Actual/Latest
Estimate
IBRD                                     _               126.0             118.3
Government Funds                                          62.2              30.4
Private Funds                                            106.0               0
Other (international)                                     10.0               0
Total                                                    304.2             148.7
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
There are no data available to recalculate the economic rates of return that were
estimated in the SAR.



-20-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in Loan Agreement
Section    Covenant   Present       Fulfillment date                         Description of Covenant                               Comments
Type      Status
Original     Revised
2.02(b)       I          C       continuous               Open and maintain three Special Accounts in CAA on1 tenns and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.01(a)     4, 5        NC       continuous               Borrower's commitment to project objectives; Borrower to carry out  Borrower did not carry out the
project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with  project with due diligence and
appropriate practices, and to provide funds, facilities, services and  efficiency, and did not provide the
other resources required for project.                         agreed upon counterpart funds.
3.0 1 (b)   5, 10        C       contiruous               For purposes of Housing Finance component, Borrower to make
available proceeds of loan to CDMH  to refinance sub-loans by
participating banks in accordance with the Circular and the provisions
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and to cause participating banks to
enter into sub-loans agreements with beneficiaries in accordance with
criteria, terms and conditions of Schedule 6 of this Agreement.
3.01(c)      4          NC       continuous               To carry out Housing Finance component, Borrower shall, as and when   Borrower did not provide the agreed
needed, transfer funds to CDMIH in sufficient amounts to cover  upon counterpart funds.
CDMIHs estimated needs.
3.02        10          C       continuous              Procedures for procurement of goods, works and consultants' services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
3.03      1, 3, 5       C       continuous              In order to carry out Housing Finance component, Borrower (i) to open
and maintain in CAA a CDMIH account (with an initial deposit of
CFAF 175 million); (ii) to establish and maintain a Steering Committee
and a Technical Secretariat; (iii) to appoint a Manager with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, to be assisted by
competent staff with adequate numbers; and (iv) to communicate to the
Bank, prior to their publication, the draft schedule for the refinancing
of sub-loans by CDMH, and all further amendments thereof
3.04       5, 10        C       continuous               Borrower shall cause CDMH  to exclusively refinance sub-loans
submitted by Participating Banks which comply with BCEAO's
creditworthiness criteria.
3.05(a)       I          C       condition of             To carry out the Land Development component, Borrower to open and
effectiveness            maintain in CAA a Compte des Terrains Urbains (CTU), on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.05(b)       5          C        continuous              To carry out the Land Development component, Borrower to establish
& (c)                                                    and maintain a Steering Committee and a Technical Secretariat, with
.._______ ____________ ________ ____________ ____ composition, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.



-21-
3.05(d)       5          C       condition of             To carry out the Land Development component, Borrower to appoint a
effcctiveness            Manager for CTU, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank, to be assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
3.05(e)      10         NC       continuous               To carry out the Land Development component, Borrower to ensure  Borrower did not implement the
that all scrviced land is sold to clients in accordance with the criteria  agreed   privatization   of  the
and the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.  commercialization of serviced plots,
and did not comply with the
modalities  specified  for  such
commercialization.
3.05(f)      10          C       continuous               To carry out the Land Development component, Borrower to obtain the
Bank's prior approval before carrying out a Development Program to be
executed by DCGTx and to be financed by CTU.
4.01         1         CD      by June 30 of             Borrower to maintain adequate project records and accounts, and to  Accounts of the Land Development
each year              have the accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the  component have not been kept
Bank.                                                         properly, and audit reports have
been submitted with considerable
delays.
4.03        1 1         C        by 1992                 Borrower to maintain and repair its road network in the Greater
Abidjan area, and to provide the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required to cover, starting in 1992, the full maintenance costs
of traffic signals, road markings, and traffic signs.
4.04        2          NC       continuous               Borrower to debit, from time to time, CDMH and CTU the equivalent  Following the devaluation of the
in CFA franc of the estimated amount to be paid by the Borrower to  CFA franc in January 1994, the
service the portion of the Loan used to finance the Housing Finance  CFA  franc  equivalent amounts
component and the Land development component, respectively.   necessary  to  scrvice  the  loan
portions exceed the funds available
I_______________  I_________________ _______________________________________________________   in the CDMH and CThJ accounts.
Covenant types:
I = Accounts/audits.                            8 = Indigenous people.                           Present status:
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation     9 = Monitoring, review and reporting.
from beneficiaries.                         10 = Project implementation not covered by       C  = Covenant complied with.
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds.           categories 1-9.                              CD = Complied with after delay.
4 = Counterpart funding.                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or     CP = Complied with partially.
5 = Management aspects of the project or             other resource allocation..                  NC = Not complied with.
executing agency.                           12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/
6 = Environmental covenants.                         institutional action.
7 = Involuntary resettlement.                    13 = Other.



-22-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title             Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OD 10.60                                   The audit reports were not submitted on time.
Accounting, financial Reporting and Auditing.
2. OD 12.20
Special Accounts.
3. OP 12.30
Statement of Expenditure.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project          Planned                Revised                  Actual
Cycle
Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$        Weeks        USS
Preparation to                                                          63.7
Appraisal                                      .
Appraisal                                                               59.2
Negotiations through
Board Approval
Supervision             102.5                  108.7                   134.7
Completion
TOTAL                    n/a                    n/a                    257.6



-23-
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions.
Stage of     Monthl     Number    Days In    Specialzed staff         Performance Rating         Types of Problems
Project Cycle    Year    of Persons    Field     ddlls represented
Implemen-      Develop-
tatlon Status     ment
Objectives
Through          Mar-85        2          12
appraisal                 I
Appraisal        May-85        8                  EC, TRE, IE, FA,
through Board                                     TEC, CC
Approval
Supervision I    Nov.-87        1              _  EC                        I             I
Supervision 2     Jan-88   __31EC
Supervision 3     Jul.-88      3           3      EC, LEG, CONS            1              I
Supervision 4    Nov.-89        1          3      EC                        1             I
Supervision 5    Feb.-90       I           9      EC                         I           I
Supervision 6     Jun-90        16                EC                       2              1        PMP, AF
Supervision 7    Feb.-91       3           4      EC,TEC,CONS              2              1        PMP,AF
Supervision 8    May-91        4           7      EC, TEC, STE,            2              1        PMP, AF, FP
=__________    =_____                _ _____    CONS
Supervision 9     Oct-91       4           7      STE, TEC, CONS           2              2        CLC, PMP, AF, SP,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                        ~~~~~~~~FP
Supervision 10   Apr.-92       2          10      TEC, UP                  3              3        CLC, PMP, AF, PP,
.____ __ _   _SPFP
Supervision 11    Oct-92       3           3      TEC, MFA, EC             3              3        CLC, PMP,
___ _________  ______           ______    ______________                     __________     AF, PP, SP,  FP
Supervision 12    Jan-93       2          11      TEC, MFA                 2              2        CLC, PMP, AF, PP,
SP, FP
Supervision 13    Jun-93       7           9      TEC, TP, CONS            4              4        CLC, PMP, AF, PP,
SP, FP
Supervision 14    Nov.-93      2           3      UFS, YP                  3              3        CLC, PMP, AF, PP,
I___________  I_____ I___I               __I__.___ __________                       SP,  FP
Supervisionl5 15                                  _ T_II
Completion       Mar-95 1             1
Key to specialized staff skills     TRE   = Traffic Engineer                    MFA = Municipal Financial Analyst
EC  = Economist                     TEC   = Transport Economist                 UFS = Urban financial Specialist
IE  = Infrastructure Engineer       LEG   = Legal                              YP   = Young Professional
FA  = Financial Analyst             CONS = Consultant
CC  = Computer Consultant           STE   = Senior Transport Engineer
UP = Urban Planner
Key to performance rating
I = Problem Free                2 = Moderate Problems        3 = Major Problems        4 = Major Problems -
Corrective action to be taken.
Key to problems
AF  = Availability of funds                     FP   = Financial performance                PP = Procurement progress
CLC = Compliance with legal covenants          PMP = Project management perfonmance         SP = Studies progress.



-24-
APPENDIXES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
1.     Une mission de la Banque Mondiale, composee de Messrs J. Mazurelle (Chef de Mission) et P.
Geli (Consultant), a sejoumr en Cote d'lvoire du 11 au 23 mars 1995 pour finaliser le Rapport
d'Achevement du Troisieme Projet Urbain, pour lequel le pret No.2789-IVC a e  cloture le 31 decembre
1994. La mission remercie tout particulierement S.E. Monsieur K. Tiapani, Ministre de la Construction et
de l'Urbanisme, de lui avoir accorde une audience, au cours de laquelle elle a pu lui presenter les
conclusions et recommendations principales de ce rapport d'achevement. La mission remercie egalement
les cadres de la CAA et de la DCGTx avec lesquels elle a eu des reunions de travail.
2.     L'evaluation retrospective du Troisieme Projet Urbain faite independamment par la Banque
s'inspire largement du rapport prepare par le Gouvemement, qui comprend une description detaillee des
activites realisees et des problemes rencontres au cours de l'execution du projet. Le rapport d'achevement
qui sera soumis au Conseil d'Administration de la Banque Mondiale doit presenter les deux points de vue,
et il n'est donc pas necessaire de les harmoniser. La mission a toutefois pu constater qu'il y avait une
certaine convergence de vues entre I'analyse du Gouvemement et celle de la Banque sur 1'execution du
projet et ses resultats.
3.     Les principaux objectifs du projet etaient (a) d'aider a la reorientation des politiques et programmes
des societes chargees de l'amenagement des terrains et du logement social; (b) de mettre en place des
mecanismes permettant de mobiliser des ressources a long terme afin d'encourager la participation du
secteur prive au financement de l'habitat et d'inciter les menages a acceder a la proprilte; et (c) de financer
les investissements complementaires necessaires a une utilisation optimale du reseau d'infrastructures
existantes utilise par les transports en commun. Si le demier objectif a bien ete atteint, il n'en est pas de
meme des deux premiers. La reorientation des politiques et programmes a ete tres limitee, et les
mecanismes mis en place n'ont pas permis de mobiliser des ressources a long terme, en dehors du pret de la
Banque Mondiale. Les resultats de la composante "Compte de Mobilisation de i'Habitat" (qui a eu par
ailleurs des effets tres positifs) et de la composante "Compte des Terrains Urbains" (qui semble avoir
produit des terrains equipes reserves plus a des investisseurs/speculateurs qu'a des candidats a l'accession a
la propriete) restent bien en dessous des previsions. Au total, les resultats du projet ne sont pas
satisfaisants, et sa viabilite peut etre jugee comme incertaine.
4.     Les causes de cet echec sont multiples. Certaines sont dues a des defaillances tant de la Banque
Mondiale que du Gouvernement aussi bien au stade de l'execution que de la conception, y compris certaines
hesitations a s'engager pleinement dans une politique de privatisation de la production et de la
commercialisation de terrains equipes. D'autres sont liees a la conjecture particulierement difficile qu'a
connue la CUte d'lvoire pendant le projet, avec ses consequences defavorables en ce qui conceme l'absence
de fonds de contrepartie, le manque de fiquidites des banques commerciales et la reduction du pouvoir
d'achat des particuliers.
5.     Parmi les lecons que l'on peut tirer de 1'ex6cution de ce Troisieme Projet Urbain, il en est une qui
est particulierement importante pour la preparation du prochain projet de developpement urbain en COte
d'lvoire. Aussi bien concus que puissent etre les instruments mis en place, un dispositif de financement du
logement axe sur le secteur prive, portant sur la production de parcelles et la construction de maisons, ne
peut donner de resultats veritablement satisfaisants si le contexte legislatif et reglementaire n'est pas
propice a la participation du secteur prive.



-25-
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Introduction.
1.    The Third Urban Development Project (UDP3) was financed by World Bank loan 2789-
IVC in the amount of one hundred twenty-six million dollars (US$126,000,000), signed in April
1988. The closing date of the loan was initially scheduled for December 31, 1992, but was
postponed for the first time to December 31, 1993, since some operations could not be completed
by the original date. A completion plan was then proposed by the Ivorian government and
adopted by the World Bank in March 1993. Following delays by the World Bank in responding
to requests for a "no objection" notice, and in view of the time required to perform all the work,
the Ivorian government requested a further postponement of the loan's closing date, which was
definitively set for June 30, 1994. However, the Bank allowed some work to be completed by
September 30, 1994.
Description of the Project.
2.    The main objectives of the project are as follows:
* to help the companies in charge of site development and low-cost housing to reorient
their policies and programs;
* to set up arrangements for mobilizing long-term funding as an incentive to the private
sector to contribute to financing housing and as a way of encouraging families to
become home-owners;
D to finance the additional investments required to make optimum use of the existing
infrastructure network used by the public transportation system.
3.    The project has four basic components:
3 Component A: Housing Finance (Compte de Mobilization de l'Habitat--CDMH). This
is a special account for refinancing the banks granting the loans to home-owners.
* Component B: Urban Site Development (Compte des Terrains Urbains--CTU). This
special account is a revolving fund for financing improvements on the building sites. In
the long run, the sale of lots should generate profits which can be used to start other
projects.
* Component C: Transportation Infrastructure. This component includes a whole range
of civil engineering works concentrated in the greater Abidjan area.
* Component D: Additional Activities and Studies
Component A is implemented by the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), under the
responsibility of a Management Committee, component B by the DCGTx [Direction et Contr6le
des Grands Travaux] under the responsibility of a Management Committee, component C by the
DCGTx under the responsibility of the Ministry of Equipment, Transportation, and
Telecommunications, and component D by the DCGTx, with the assistance of consultants and
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Equipment, Transportation, and Telecommunications
and the Ministry of Construction and Urban Affairs.



-26-
Transportation Infrastructure Component.
4.    Implementation of subprojects
* Construction and maintenance of the existing road system: 33 road segments measuring
a total of 51 km were scheduled for rehabilitation in the following neighborhoods:
Plateau, Cocody, Yopougon, Treichville, Marcory, Zone IV, Koumassi, Port Bouet,
and Vridi; 40 road segments measuring a total of 49 km have been fully repaired.
* Development of bus lanes: 1.5 km of bus lanes, with two lanes alongside for other
vehicles, were developed out of 2.55 km programmed for bus traffic.
* Improvement of access roads in the Blanco, Abobo, Williamsville, Marcory, and
Cocody neighborhoods: 30.33 km of access roads were built in these neighborhoods,
as compared to the 23.5 km planned.
* Construction of the express road from Agban to Indenie: 2.73 km of express way
linking Latrille Boulevard to Mitterrand Boulevard, and a 4.55 km extension to Latrille
Boulevard were built (as compared to 3.0 km planned).
l Improvements and installation of equipment at 30 intersections: 47 intersections were
equipped with three-color traffic lights, and street lamps were installed along several
road segments. Maintenance of traffic lights was also provided.
Main problems encountered.
5.    The World Bank's share of financing under the loan agreement created implementation
problems for the initial subprojects, as outlined below. The economic crisis in CUte d'Ivoire
prevented the country from making regular payments of its counterpart funds. This in turn
slowed down the work in progress and increased the costs of subsequent projects, since firms'
bids included provisions for nonpayment of the counterpart funds. The World Bank should be
commended on its constructive response as, at the request of the Ivorian authorities, it agreed to
increase its financing rate for this project component from 75 percent to 100 percent, which had
the immediate effect of lowering unit prices and stepping up the pace of the work in progress. The
World Bank has, however, made things difficult at times by refusing to accept the Ivorian
authorities' suggestions for improving project implementation.
6.    As part of the subproject for developing a separate bus lane along Nangui Abrogoua
Boulevard, the Bank rejected Cote d'Ivoire's proposal to give the work contract to the firm that
came in second in the competitive bidding. The Ivorian position was based on the complexity of
the work to be performed by a relatively shaky firm and on the fact that the difference between
the bids of the two firms in first and second place was minor. The winning firm was unable to
complete the work, which was therefore turned over to the second-place firm to complete under a
negotiated contract which the Bank accepted via a "no-objection notice". Delays occurred in
issuing the "no-objection" notices for the bidding documents and the proposed contracts, causing
delays in performance of the work and thus in disbursements.



-27-
Impact of the project's transportation component on the urban environment.
7.    The completion of this component had a highly positive impact on the urban environment
in various ways. It helped improve the standard of living of the residents of Abidjan. Proof of
this can be seen in the smooth flow of traffic from the residential neighborhoods of II Plateaux, la
Riviera, Abobo, Williamsville, and even Bingerville to "le Plateau" business center via Latrille and
Mitterrand Boulevards, and in the clear improvement in access to various neighborhoods,
particularly the large settlement of 50,000 inhabitants at Koumassi, which used to be difficult to
reach--and Yopougon, Marcory, Treichville, and Adjame.
8.    A number of roadways have unquestionably been saved by the reconstruction and repair
work, although some roads which have not been rebuilt have now reached their reinforcement
limit. These roads could be saved if a similar project were to be put in place. If it is not,
however, the investment required later will be very heavy. The extension of Latrille Boulevard in
Cocody Nord is benefitting all the neighborhoods, such as Aghien, Perles, Star, and Angre,
developing there. The completion of the separate bus lane alongside the two-way road to
Adjame, which drains off 33 percent of the SOTRA buses, and the rehabilitation of 38th street,
another road with very heavy SOTRA traffic, have eased the considerable worries of the
management of the main urban transportation company. Now passengers from Abobo and
Yopougon, the two most populous communes in Abidjan, can travel around easily, and the
nightmare of the long lines of traffic jams is over.
9.    Another urban development program with a major transportation component is urgently
needed. This component should include the rehabilitation of existing roads and a more limited
program to open new roadways to provide access to new neighborhoods as they are developed.
It is important to note that the objectives of the transportation component were not only achieved,
but largely surpassed.
Purpose, status, and organization of the CDMH.
10.   The CDMIH was established by Decree No. 87/367 of April 1, 1987 to extend the initial
maturities of loans to home-owners. It is part of the CAA (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement)
and has no separate legal status. The CDMH's expenditures, or refinancing, are committed, paid,
or authorized by the Managing Director (MD) of the CAA. Its daily management is handled by
an administrator appointed by the CAA's MD. The MD of the CAA is chairman of the CDMH
Management Commnittee (CDG), and representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Finance,
Construction and Urban Affairs, the CAA, the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO),
and the Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux [DCGTx] sit on it. The Management
Committee has a technical secretariat composed of the CDMH administrator, a representative
from the Ministry of Construction and Urban Affairs, and a representative from the DCGTx, who
acts as coordinator.
11.   Refinancing rate. Initially, the CDMH refinancing rate was aligned with the BCEAO's
preferential discount rate (TEP). But in view of the very steep increases in the TEP starting in
1988, which went up by 5 points in two years, the Management Committee considered it essential
to unpeg the CDMH refinancing rate from the Central Bank's rate. The Current CDMH
refinancing rate is 8 percent, while the BCEAO's rate stands at 11 percent.



-28-
The rate applied to home buyers is currently 11.5 percent, and is broken down as follows:
Percentage
- Refinancing rate:                  8.0
- Bank spread:                       3.0
Total, pre-tax                      11.0
Life and fire insurance:             0.5
TOTAL                   11.5
Note: This rate is exempt from the TPS (Tax on Services), except for individual builders.
12.   Processing of applications. The process of obtaining access to refinancing distinguishes
between the construction of individual units and housing developments which involve large
amounts of refinancing. The main criterion applied by the Management Committee in approving a
commercial bank is its creditworthiness as judged by the BCEAO. A primary objective of the
CDMH is to encourage the production of housing for low-income families. This is why a
refinancing scale was established. This scale provides for different refinancing percentages based
on the selling price and the term of the loan. Thus, the longer the loan's term--i.e., 18 to 20 years-
-and the lower the selling price of the housing--i.e., less than CFA franc 7 million--the higher is
the amount refinanced.
Results achieved.
13.   Approved real estate developments. From the time it started up in September 1988, the
date the CDMIH became operational, until September 30, 1994, the Management Committee gave
its approval to real estate development projects involving 7,300 dwellings with loans eligible for
its refinancing. This figure can be broken down as follows, according to purchase price bands
Selling Price      Number of dwellings       Percentage of total
less than 7 million      2,750                     37.6
7 to 10 million          2,800                     38.4
10 to 15 million         1,750                     24.0
7,300                    100 percent
14.   Location of programs. Except for three programs located in Bouake, virtually all the
development is concentrated in Abidjan, and mainly in the following communes:
Percentage
- Yopougon:              39
- Cocody:                43
- Other communes:         14
15.   Organization of the property development sector
There are three (3) different groups of developers:



-29-
(i)    Companies whose regular business is property development. There are two
subgroups here:
- the first subgroup is composed of the former construction companies;
- the second subgroup comprises the new developers which do only that.
(ii)   Part-time developers which come together to establish a non-stock real estate
corporation for a single operation and then disband;
(iii) Finally, the programs initiated by employers to help their employees buy a home.
16.   Refinancing. By September 30, 1994, approximately 3,288 loans extended by
commercial banks had been refinanced by the CDMH, to a total of around CFA franc 17 billion.
- the average amount refinanced was 5.3 million;
- the average amount of the loans was 6.4 million;
- the average selling price of the dwellings was 7.8 million;
- the average term of the loans was 13 years;
- the average monthly income of the buyers was CFA franc 290,000;
- the average individual down payment was 18 percent.
Major problems encountered.
17.   It took much longer to put the CDMH into operation than planned at the outset of the
project. This is attributed to the fact that, because of the C6te d'Ivoire's economic problems, it
was impossible to maintain an equal balance between the Bank's financing (50 percent) and the
Treasury's contributions (50 percent), and also to the sharp rise in interest rates. Other obstacles
were identified as well, including the following:
(a) The individual contribution or down payment, fixed at a minimum of 10 percent of the
selling price of the housing, posed real problems for households with modest incomes.
These households must in fact accumulate savings over a period of years, i.e., 3 to 5
years.
(b) Financing the cost of the legal instruments, which account for 7 percent to 8 percent
of the selling price of the housing. These costs cannot be covered by the loan under
the current refinancing conditions. If account is also taken of the cost of the
paperwork, the individual contribution required of the buyer is in the neighborhood of
18 to 20 percent of the selling price.
(c) Access to bank credit. The CDMIH is currently providing financing only for wage-
earners in the formal sector who can prove that they have a steady income, on the
basis of payroll slips. In view of the economic situation in C6te d'Ivoire and the
dominant role played by the informal sector, it is clear that a broad segment of the
population is de facto excluded from CDM:H funds.
(d) Retirement age. The new laws established by the Cote d'Ivoire government pertaining
to the retirement of government workers have profoundly changed the conditions



-30-
governing banks' intervention. Now only civil servants with a total of 30 years of
service are entitled to retirement. This means that a large segment of this group of
workers is excluded.
Success of the CDMH and future prospects.
18.   The CDMH has made it possible for commercial banks to obtain new funds for financing
housing. This has therefore increased the number of housing loans. The CDMH is undeniably
responsible for the recovery of private real estate development. In fact, around ten real estate
development companies have been established, in addition to the ones that were already
operating. The CDMH is also a factor in the mobilization of domestic savings, because of the
required individual contribution, for instance. The CDMH is an essential tool of economic
recovery, since it has revitalized the construction and public works sector, a labor-intensive
sector, and has had a special impact on small and medium-scale construction businesses. The
creation of the CDMH has also affected sectors such as insurance--life and fire insurance--and
notaries, who are needed to draw up the deeds of sale and credit instruments.
Recommendations.
19.   Review of refinancing conditions. Loans to households with a monthly income of
around CFA franc 300,000 are eligible for CDMH. The rate applied by banks is 11.5 percent.
The CDMH has therefore made it possible to finance housing for middle-income families earning
from CFA franc 250,000 to 300,000 a month. The CDMH could offer two or three refinancing
plans at two or three different rates, as follows:
(a) The refinancing rate resulting from a mix of available resources (basic refinancing
rate) would be applied to the current target (income over CFA franc 250,000 a
month);
(b) The refinancing rate could be increased for loans made for rental properties. This
increase is justified by the fact that the loan recipient would have not only his income,
but additional funds in the form of rents, to repay his loan. Loans to these customers
could also have repayment periods shorter than the current minimum 11-year term.
(c) The refinancing rate could be reduced for loans granted to low-income households
(less than CFA franc 250,000) for the purchase of very inexpensive housing.
These rate adjustments will essentially be based on two factors: purchase price and household
income. The CDMH will naturally be run so as to ensure that it remains financially stable and that
its average refinancing rate is equivalent to that derived from the average cost of funds. The
operation can therefore be summed up as an internal cross subsidy, and the inclusion of low-
income households does not entail any subsidies from any other type of agency.
Purpose, status, and organization of the CTU.
20.   The purpose of the CTU component is to finance improvements on building sites
accessible to low-income families. The CTU was established by Decree No. 87-368 on April 1,
1987. It is part of the CAA (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement), and does not have separate



-31-
legal status. The Managing Director of the CAA is chairman of the Management Committee, the
entity in charge of managing the CTU. Its members include representatives of the Ministries of
Economy, Finance, and Planning, and Construction and Urban Affairs, the Direction et Controle
des Grands Travaux, and the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement. The Management Committee
draws up the physical and financial urban site development programs, and sets the selling prices
and terms of sale. The Management Committee is assisted by a technical secretariat, chaired by
the DCGTx and consisting of the Ministry of Construction and Urban Affairs and the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement. It is in charge of preparing the dossiers required for the
development work. An administrator appointed by the MD of the CAA is responsible for the day-
to-day management of the CTU. In practice, the CAA manages the revolving fund, and the
Ministry of Construction and Urban Affairs defines the urban development policy. The DCGTx
makes the land available, conducts the studies, performs the site development work, handles
marketing and loan recovery, and is therefore the operating agent for CTU-financed programs. It
must balance its accounts and show a profit so that new programs can be started up without any
resort to further borrowing.
21.   CTU Funds. The initial working capital or revolving fund is being financed by a
US$12,650,000 loan, equivalent to CFA franc 3.795 billion at the exchange rate of US$1 = CFA
franc 300, made by the World Bank as part of the Third Urban Development Project (UDP3).
Later growth of CTU operations will be financed first by the margin on the initial transactions,
then by recourse to national savings, and possibly by additional borrowing.
22.   CTU Activities. Since it was established, the CTU has financed two large-scale
operations known as CTU1 and CTU2, covering a total of 4,500 fully-serviced lots offered to real
estate development companies and to individuals. The first operation was located in the
commune of Cocody, at Riviera Palmeraie, while the second one was in the commune of
Yopougon - Ananeraie. The selling price was CFA franc 4,100 per m2 for the first operation and
CFA franc 5,500 per m2 for the second. All the lots involved in both operations had been
completely sold by September 30, 1994.
Theoretical selling conditions
- 30 percent as a deposit;
- the remainder in 24 equal monthly installments.
Major problems encountered.
23.   Defects in the arrangement. The defects discussed below do not stem from the
arrangement itself, but rather were the subject of critical assessments by buyers, who feel that the
selling prices of the lots are relatively high, which makes them inaccessible to modest-income
families. In response to these comments, studies are being conducted with a view to diversifying
the products offered and reducing the initial investment by deferring certain site improvements
and making holding companies [societes de patrimoine] responsible for certain utility systems,
such as water supply and electricity. All these steps should make it possible to reduce the selling
prices of the lots so that families with modest incomes can have access to them. The objective is
to produce plots ranging from CFA franc 800,000 to CFA franc 1,000,000. The CTU3 operation
will serve as a pilot project to try out these new proposals.



-32-
24.   Coordination of CTU activities. As indicated in paragraph 3 above, three agencies are
participating in the CTU, as follows:
- the Ministry of Economy and Finance, through the CAA;
- the Ministry of Construction and Urban Affairs; and,
- the Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux.
The first projects, CTU1 and CTU2, were designed almost single-handedly by the DCGTx,
without much assistance from the other partners, whose role was confined to approving their main
lines. Therefore, it is now the DCGTx that is being criticized for taking control of the CTU and
blamed for its defects and malfunctioning. Further, since the roles were never clearly defined and
distributed, the DCGTx started up the operation by focusing on technical results, or in other
words site development work.
25.   As a result, management issues such as customer accounts were neglected. At the outset,
the Real Estate Sales Office was restricted to monitoring sales and collections, and sometimes no
distinction was drawn between CTU operations and SETU-Liquidation operations. The available
data base and the financial statements sent to the CAA were not sufficient to enable it to establish
an acceptable system of accounts. It should also be noted that when the CTU started up,
conditions were not propitious for close cooperation among the various participants. We believe
that this situation was not taken as seriously as it should have been. Subsequently, those
responsible in the various ministries and offices involved tried to find the common ground needed
to create a basis for working together. The various aspects of operations in 1993 were discussed
at length with the CAA, which indicated that it had the information needed to prepare the 1993
accounts. The DCGTx is waiting to receive comments and suggestions on CTU3 from both the
Ministry of Construction and Urban Affairs and the CAA.
26.   Technical aspects. No major problems have been encountered. The DCGTx has
experience in this area as a result of the land improvement work it has done in conjunction with
the liquidation of SETU.
27.   Operations. CTU's management units have not performed satisfactorily. In contrast to
the CDMH, whose Management Committee meets once a month and whose Technical Secretariat
meets at least as often, the CTU's Management Committee has met relatively infrequently.
28.   Development of the lots sold. The delays in developing the lots, and especially the
protracted period between completion of the site improvements and the first construction, are to
be deplored. The deterioration of a number of storm water drainage systems for want of
maintenance, the theft of sewerage pipes, and especially an increase in government expenses for
items such as public lighting, are all attributed to these delays.
Recommendations.
29.   The CTU is the only arrangement in place for producing building sites at the present time.
In other words, the real estate development business is closely linked to its survival . Although
there is nothing wrong with the program from a purely technical standpoint, the same is not true
of other facets of the program, such as coordination of the activities of the various participants,
and financial control. The DCGTx should continue to use its know-how to good advantage. The



-33-
current conditions for cooperation are far better than the situation which prevailed when the CTU
began operations.
Additional Activities And Studies
30.   Three urban housing studies have been initiated, i.e.:
* A study on the bank of property and housing indicators is being finalized. It will
provide a tool for keeping track of supply and demand on the land and real estate
markets, and of buying trends on those markets, broken down by socio-economic
groups, in the form of a "performance chart" grouping together all the different data on
the subject;
* A study analyzing property and real estate businesses is nearly completed. This study
will make it possible to determine the status of the property and housing market and to
suggest housing policy strategies, especially in the area of rental housing for low-
income groups (small business rentals),
* The Land Improvement Concession bill is being finalized. This should enable the
government to divest itself of direct responsibility for improving and marketing urban
lots by granting concessions covering these tasks to other public or private onerators
legally separate from it. In this way the economic stakes of the operations will be quite
apparent, and they will be based on a clear distribution of responsibilities.
31.   Two important studies were conducted in the area of urban transport:
* the Abidjan Transport Plan, which made it possible to define the tariff and regulatory
measures required to modulate demand, plan the medium and long-term transportation
infrastructure for the Abidjan metropolitan area (particularly major ground
transportation routes, terminals for urban and interurban passenger and freight traffic,
and parking areas for automobiles and trucks) and also to make projections and
recommendations regarding the financial equilibrium and institutional organization of
the sector;
* the study on SOTRA, which proposed measures whose implementation should enable
the company's financial equilibrium to be restored, thus allowing it to carry out its
investment programs and perform its role of passenger transportation operator in the
greater Abidjan urban area effectively.
32.   In line with the development of the urban economy, two pilot operations were executed:
* an informal sector support project, whose purpose is to facilitate access to credit for
the micro-enterprise sector via NGOs acting as financial intermediaries; the project has
financed a total of 354 loans (involving some CFA franc 160 million) to small trades
and micro-businesses in Abidjan, with a very satisfactory average loan recovery rate
(almost 89 percent, compared to the initial target of 80 percent). As a result, it has been
decided to extend the project, within the MDP/IBRD framework, to towns in the
interior;



-34-
* a study of urban/rural exchanges in the Center-West Region, which on the basis of the
preparation of Social Accounting Matrices (Matrices de Compatibilite Sociale -
MACS) describing the settlements and economic activities of the department of Daloa
for the years of 1980, 1990 and 2000, resulted in a proposed strategy and action
program designed to expand these exchanges. The study led to the introduction of a
new method for defining and implementing a regional development policy, based on the
mobilization and alternative forms of allocation of resources and investments between
rural and urban areas.












IMAGING
Report No:       1458S9
Type: ICR



