INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                       1818 HStreet, N.W.      Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                          Washington, D.C.20433   Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                          U.S.A.                  Email: ipanel@worldbank.org



     EdithBrownWeiss
     Chairperson

                                                                            IPNREQUEST RQ05/1

                                                                            February4, 2005


         MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES OF THE
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                  SUBJECT: Requestfor Inspection
              CAMBODIA: ForestConcessionManagementand ControlPilotProject
                       (Credit No. 3365-KH and Trust FundNo. 26419-JPN)


             Please be advised that on January 28,2005, the Inspection Panel (the `Panel') received
     a Request for Inspection (the `Request') related to the above-mentioned Project. The Panel
     registered the Request for Inspection inthe Panel's Register on February 4, 2005, as provided
     inparagraph 17ofthe Panel's Operating Procedures.Italso delivered a copy ofthe Requestto
     the President of IDA pursuant to paragraph 17 of the IDA Resolution that established the
     Panel. Enclosed for your information are:

            (1) A copy of the Notice o f Registration; and
            (2) A copy o f the transmittal Memorandumto the President.




     Enclosures

THE INSPECTIONPANEL
INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT                 I818 HStreet, NW               Phone: (202) 458-5200
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                               Washington, DC 20433, USA      Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                                  Internet: httD://www.worldbank ordinspection




        IPNREQUESTRQ05/1


                                                                                                 February 4,2005


                                       NOTICEOF REGISTRATION



                                          Re: Requestfor Inspection
          CAMBODIA: ForestConcessionManagementand ControlPilotProject(FCMCPP)
                           (CreditNo. 3365-JCHand Trust FundNo. 26419-JPN)


      On January 28, 2005, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection, dated January 21,
      2005, (the "Request") related to the above-referenced Project (sometimes also referred to as the
      "FCMCPP"). The NGO F o m on Cambodia submitted the Requeston its own behalf and on
      behalf o f affected local communities living in the districts o f Tbeng Meanchey in Preah Vihear
      Province; Siem Bok and Sesan in Stung Treng Province; and Anlong Veng in Oddar Meanchey
      Province, Cambodia. These four districts are respectively located in the concession areas o f the
      companies Chendar Plywood, Samraong Wood, Everbright and Pheapimex.

      The Requesters state that they have "received letterspom a number of villagers, signed in March
      2004" asking them "to represent their request ...   ." They    also state that the "local community
      representatives who signed the letters have requested that their names be kept confidential." The
     Request includes two signed letters from representatives of affected communities and a report
     prepared by the NGO Global Witness for the affected communities "providing details of the case
     and the violations of WorldBankpolicies which occurred."

     The Requesters state that the Project supports the logging concession system in Cambodia, andthe
     Project's objectives are "to demonstrate the effectiveness of a comprehensive set of forest
     management and operational guidelines and controlprocedures inforest concessionareas, and to
     establish an effectiveforest crime monitoring andprevention capability."

     The Requesters believe that "in its commissioning and supervision of the FCMCPP, the Bank has
     violated a number of its operational policies leading to harm or potential future harm to people
     living in the project-affected areas." In their view, the Project has "endorsed forest concession
     managementplans of sixforest concession companies" that "have apoor record with regard to the
     protection of community rights and livelihoods." The Requesters claim that trees the villagers tap
     for resin will again be "cut ille~ally"when the logging activities resume, and that the villagers will
     be subject to the "kinds of abuses" they have sufferedinthe past.

 The Requesters allege that "through Jawed project design and poor implementation" the World
 Bank "has promoted the interests of the logging concession system and concessionaires" although
 "the companies have already caused harm to theforest-dependent communities and will continue
 to do so." They add that by assisting the companies in preparing sustainable forest management
 plans (SFMPs) and environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs), the Bank i s "using loan
 money to beneJit logging companies that have a track record of timber the$, tax evasion and
 human rights abuses." In the Requesters' view, by endorsing such management plans and impact
 assessments with no additional check and balances requirements, the Bank has "increased the
 likelihood " that these companies will maintain their logging concessions, and has strengthened the
 companies' position"making it even more difficultfor adversely affected communities to hold them
 uccomtuble." The Requesters allege that the Bank "has contributed to a set of outcomes that stand
 to inflict harm onforest-dependent communities in the nearfuture."

 The Requesters claim that the Bank has violated its own policy on Forests by providing technical
 assistance to "undeserving" logging companies "to facilitate their future logging operations."
 They also claim that the Cambodian government has not met "all or even many" of the criteria for
 measuring a "government's commitment to move toward sustainable management of (primmy
 moist) tropical forests." The Request includes a detailed account o f specific instances o f Bank
 policy violations.

 The Requesters also state that the Bank did not comply with its policy on Environmental
 Assessment because it classified the Project as a Category B, rather than Category A. The
 Requesters believe that severe impacts will result from the Project, such as immediate degradation
 caused by industrial-scale logging, damage to watersheds, and harmful impacts on a significant
portion o f Cambodia forests and the large population who depend on the forests for their
livelihood. The Requesters claim that the erroneous categorization o f the Project as Category B
lowered the level o f the environmental analysis to be carried out. They further claim it appears that
"no meaninaful environmental assessment was carried out before the Project began." The
Requesters also complain about "lack of public consultation during the project planning and
flawed public consultations during its implementation stage." Inaddition, they claim that the Bank
didnot comply with the policy provision requiring disclosure of the Project documents, because it
failed to ensure that copies o f the SFMPs and the ESIAs were made available to the community
representatives.

The Request also alleges that the Project will adversely affect indigenous peoples, namely the
Kuoy people represented among the Requesters, who live inthe forests in the north and northeast
part of Cambodia. According to the Requesters, the Bank has not complied both with the letter and
the spirit o f the Bank policy on Indigenous Peoples, as the Bank "does not appear to have
identijed `issues concerning indigenous peoples' in the course of planning or implementing the
FCMCPP ..."

The Requesters further claim that the FCMCPP will lead to the degradation of Natural Habitats
because the Project failed to recognize the concessions areas as natural habitats in any meaninghl
sense, increasing the "probability of severe imminent damage." They also claim that, although the
six logging concessions areas approved under the Project "contain both spirit forests and sites of
archeological importance that undoubtedly constitute cultural property," no survey o f these sites
has beencarried out duringProject preparation.

The above claims may constitute violations by the Bank o f various provisions of the following
operational Policies and Procedures:

         OP/BP 4.01                      Environmental Assessment
         OPBP 4.04                       Natural Habitats (September 1995)
         OPN 11.03                       Cultural Property
         OD 4.20                         Indigenous People
         OP/BP 4.36                      Forestry
         OPBP 8.40                       Technical Assistance
         OP/BP 13.05                     Project Supervision
         BE' 17.50                       Disclosure of Information

All communications with the Requesters inconnection with this Request will be sent until further
notice to Messrs. Kep Kannaro andRussell Petersonat the addresses listed below.

In accordance with paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating Procedures (the `Operating
Procedures'), Iam notifying you that Ihave, on February 4, 2005, which i s also the date o f the
dispatch o f this notice, registered this Request inthe Inspection Panel Register.

In accordance with paragraph 18 o f the IDA Resolutions that established the Panel (the
`Resolution'), paragraphs 2 and 8 o f the bbConcIusionsof the Board's Second Review of the
Inspection Panel" (the `1999 Clarifications'), and paragraph 18 (d) o f the Operating Procedures,
Bank Management must provide the Panel, no later than March 8,2005, with written evidence that
it has complied, or intends to comply, with the Bank's relevant policies and procedures inrelation
to the above-referencedProject. The subject matter that Management must deal with in a response
to the Request is set out inparagraphs 3 and 4 o f the 1999 Clarifications.

After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999 Clarifications
and as provided by paragraph 19 of the Resolution, "determine whether the Request meets the
eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 [of the Resolution] and shall make a
recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be investigated.''

The Request has been assigned IPNRequest Number RQ05/1.




                                          Yours sincerely,




                                        EdithBrownWeiss
                                            Chairperson

I .




      TO:

      Messrs. Kep Kannaro and Russell Peterson
       #9-11 Street 476, Toul Tompong,
      P.O.Box 2295,PhnomPenh 3, Cambodia

      Mr.JamesD.Wolfensohn
      President
      InternationalDevelopment Association
      RoomM C12-750

      CC:

      The Executive Directors and Alternates
      IntemationalDevelopment Association

- IRTERNATIONAL      BANKFORRECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
  THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                         1818 HStreet, N.W       Telephone (202) 458-5200
                                                              Vvashington, D C 20433  Fax (202) 522-0916
                                                                                      Email ipanel@worldbankorg

  EdithBrownWeiss
  Chairperson




                                                                           IPNREQUEST RQQ5/1

                                                                            February4,2005


                       MEMORANDUM TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
                  THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                      Requestfor Inspection
            CAMBODIA: ForestConcessionManagement and ControlPilotProject
                      (Credit No. 3365-KH and Trust FundNo. 26419-JPN)



          Inaccordance with paragraph 17 ofIDA Resolutionthat established the InspectionPanel
  (the `Resolution') and paragraph 17 o f the Inspection Panel's Operating Procedures (the
  `Operating Procedures'), Ihereby notify you that on January 28, 2005, the Inspection Panel (the
  `Panel') received a Request for Inspection(the `Request') related to the above-referenced Project.

          IhaveonFebruary4,2005,whichisalsothedateofthedispatchofthisnotice,registered
  the Request inthe InspectionPanel Register. Enclosed are:

          1. copy o fthe Notice of Registration; and
         2. copy o fthe Requestfor Inspection

         In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution, paragraphs 2 and 8 of the
  "Conclusions of the Board`s Second Review of the Inspection Panel" (the `1999 Clarifications'),
  and paragraph 18 (d) of the Operating Procedures, Bank Management is hereby notified that it
  must provide the Panel, no later than March 8, 2005, with written evidence that it has complied,
  or intends to comply with the Bank's relevant policies and procedures in relation to the above-
  referenced Projects. The subject matter the Management must deal with in a response to the
  Request is set out inparagraphs 3 and 4 o fthe 1999 Clarifications.

        After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 o f the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 and shall make a
recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be investigated."

        The Request has been assigned IPNRequest NumberRQ05/1.




Enclosures:

 Request for Inspection
 Notice of Registration


TO:     Mr.JamesD.Wolfensohn
        President
        InternationalDevelopment Association
        Room MC12-750

        [By handagainst confirmation]

cc:     The ExecutiveDirectors and Alternates
        InternationalDevelopment Association




                                             2

