                               Report No. 31862
                                             \
The Inspection Panel            @

ReportandRecommendation



                                                   /




Cambodia: Forest Concession Management
and Control Pilot Project
(CreditNo. 3365-KH andTrust Fund. 26419-JPN)



March 30,2005


                                        TheInspectionPanel


                                 Report and Recommendation
                                                     On
                                      Requestfor Inspection


                    CAMBODIA: Forest ConcessionManagement
                            and ControlPilot Project (FCMCPP)
              (Credit No. 3365-KH andTrust FundNo. 26419-JPN)

    1.     On January 28, 2005, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection,
           dated January 21, 2005, (the "Request") related to the Cambodia: Forest
           Concession Management and Control Pilot Project (FCMCPP) (the "Project").
           The NGO Forum on Cambodia submitted the Request on its own behalf and on
           behalf o f affected local communities living in the districts of Tbeng Meanchey
           inPreah Vihear Province; Siem Bok and Sesan in Stung Treng Province; and
           Anlong Veng in Oddar Meanchey Province, Cambodia (the "Requesters").
           These four districts are located respectively in the concession areas o f the
           companies Chendar Plywood, Samraong Wood, Everbright and Pheapimex.
           The NGO Forum on Cambodia states that they have received "letters from a
           number of villagers signed in March 2004" asking them "to represent their
           request [. .../. ''I They also state that the "local community representatives who
           signed the letters have requested that their names be kept

    2.     The Request includes two signed letters from representatives of affected
           communities and a report prepared by the NGO Global Witness for the affected
           communities at the request of their representative, the NGO Forum o f
           Cambodia, to provide "details of the case and the violations of World Bank
           policies which occurred. r       r 3




A. The Project

    3.     The Project is financed by IDA Credit No. 3365-KH approved within the
           Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) f r a m e ~ o r k .The Project's objectives are
                                                                           ~

' Request for Inspection, Letter to the Inspection Panel, January 21,2005, p.1, [hereinafter "Request Letter
1"1.
2 Request, p.1.
  Request for Inspection, "Submission to the Inspection Panel World Bank Forest Concession Management
and Control Pilot Project in Cambodia," Global Witness, February 2005, [hereinafter "Request,
Attachment 1"I
  "The learning and innovation loan (LIL) supports small pilot-type investment and capacity-building
projects that,if successful, could lead to larger projects that would mainstream the learning and results of


                                                       1

           "to demonstrate and improve the effectiveness of a comprehensive set of forest
           management and operational guidelines and control procedures in forest
           concession areas, and to establish an effective forest crime monitoring and
           prevention c~pability."~

     4.    The FCMCCP has four components:6

             o Component A (Forest Planning and Inventory) provides the preparation
                  o f `yorest concessions management plans to serve as models for current
                  and future concessions, including jield surveys and inventory [...Iand
                  preparation of detailed annual operationalplans to givepractical effect to
                  suchforest concessions management plans."

             o Component B (Concession Regulation and Control) seeks to strengthen
                  the capacity of Forest Management Offices "to oversee concession
                  operations and ensure that they are in compliance with the forest
                  management and operationalplans. ''

             o Component C (Forest Crime Monitoring and Prevention) aims at
                   "strengthening the capacity " of the implementingagency, the Department
                  o f Forestry and Wildlife (DWF), and the Ministry o f Environment to
                  "systematically and regularly monitor illegal logging and launch effective
                  prevention activities." This component i s also aimed at supporting the
                  concessionaires, the local and national forestry and national parks offices,
                  and the affected communities to design and implement "timber theft
                  prevention plans and disseminate the information on the government o f
                                      "
                  Cambodia's `yorest crimeprevention programs.             "



             o Component D (Project Management and Institutional Strengthening)
                  provides the creation o f the Project Management Unit (PMU) and the
                   "strengthening of its capacity to manage the project and be responsible
                 for procurement andfinancial management activities, and monitoring and
                  evaluation."

     5.    Management Response to the Request for Inspection describes the "Project
           Organi~ation."~The Project i s being implementedby the former DFW, which


the LIL. LILs do not exceed $5 million, and are normally implemented over 2 to 3 years - a much shorter
period than most Bank investment loans. All LILs include an effective monitoring and evaluation system to
capture lessons learned." See World Bank, Operation Policy and Country Services, World Bank Lending
Instruments, Resourcesfor Development Impact, at http:llsiteresources.worldbank.org.
 Development Credit Agreement (Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project) between the
Kingdom of Cambodia and the International Development Association (IDA), Credit No. 3365-KH, July 6,
2000, [hereinafter "Credit Agreement"], Schedule 2 (Description of the Project).
'Credit Agreement, Schedule 2 (Description o f the Project).
  Bank Management Response to the Request for Inspection Panel Review of the Cambodia Forest
Concession Management and Control Pilot Project (Credit No. 3365-KH), March 8, 2005, [hereinafter
"Management Response"], 7 10.


                                                   2

           was reorganized in 2003 and became the Forestry Administration (FA). "The
           F A is a semi-autonomous agency of the Ministy of Agriculture, Forestvy and
           Fisheries (MAFF). A Deputy Director serves as Project Director."8 Concession
           plan reviews are the responsibility o f a Technical Review Team (TRT) created
           by the FA. The forest crime monitoring and prevention role was initially
           carried out under a project financed by the Food and Agriculture Organization
           (FAO) and the UnitedNations Development Program (UNDP), within which
           the NGO Global Witness served as "independent monitor."                  Presently, this
           function i s the responsibility o f a commercial firm contracted under the
           FCMCCP.

     6.    Management states that the Project was modified in 2003 "to address post-
           concession management issues        "  "in areas released from concessions, [where]
           the Government has taken preliminay steps to institute new management
            arrangement^,^" though the Development Credit Agreement did not require
           amendment." According to the Response, the GOC has designated a total o f 1
           million hectares in three post-concession areas as protected forests," and has
           requested technical assistance to develop management plans for these areas.
           International donors and NGOs, among them the Wildlife Conservation Society
           (WCS), are assisting the Government inthis effort. Management states that the
           FCMCCP, as amended, finances the collaboration between the FA and the
           WCS inone o f these post-concessions areas, Mondulkiri.'*

B.Financing

     7.    The Project is supported by an IDA Credit o f SDR 3.6 milliont3,approved on
           June 6, 2000. The Credit Agreement became effective on October 20, 2000.
           The closing date was originally set for December 31, 2003, but upon request o f
           the Borrower, the Credit was extendedto June 30,2005. A Japanese Policy and
           Human Resources Development Fund Grant o f USD 240,000'4 financed
           technical assistance during implementation.

C,The Request

     8.    The NGO Forum on Cambodia submittedthe Request on its own behalf and on
           behalf o f affected local communities living in the districts o f Tbeng Meanchey
           in Preah Vihear Province; Siem Bok and Sesan in Stung Treng Province; and



 Management Response, 7 60.
 Management Response, 7 10.

loManagement Response, 7 9.
`IManagement Response, 7 60. The three areas are Central Cardamom (401,313 ha), Mondulkiri (429,438
ha), and Preah Vihear (190,027 ha).
l2Management Response, 7 60.
l3USD4.6 million equivalent at the time of Credit approval.
l4Japanese Grant Agreement, (Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project), TF026419,
January 11,2001.

              Anlong Veng in Oddar Meanchey Province, Cambodia. As indicated above,
              these four districts are located respectively in the concession areas o f the
              companies Chendar Plywood, Samraong Wood, Everbrightand Pheapimex.

      9.      The Requesters claim that "in its commissioning and supervision of the
              FCMCPP, the Bank has violated a number of its operationalpolicies leading to
              harm or potentialfuture harm to people living in the project-affected areas.""
              Intheir view, the Projecthas "endorsedforest concession managementplans of
              six forest concession companies" that "have a poor record with regard to the
             protection of community rights and livelihoods."16 The Requesters claim that
              when the logging activities resume, trees the villagers tap for resin will again be
              "cut i l l e g a l l ~ "and the villagers will be subject to the "kinds of abuses "I8 they
                                      ' ~
              have suffered inthe past.

      10. The Requesters allege that "through flawed project design and poor
              implementation the World Bank has promoted the interests of the logging
              concession system and concessionaires," even though "the companies have
              already caused harm to theforest-dependent communities and will continue to
              do  ~ 0 . ' " ~
                            They add that by assisting the companies in preparing sustainable
              forest management plans (SFMPs) and environmental and social impact
              assessments (ESIAs), the Bank i s "using loan money to beneJit logging
              companies that have a track record of timber thejt tax evasion and human
              rights abuses.20" In the Requesters' view, by endorsing such management
              plans and impact assessments with no additional check and balances
              requirements, the Bank has "increased the likelihood" that these companies
              will continue their logging concession, and has strengthened the companies'
              position "making it even more difJicult for adversely affected communities to
              hold them to account." The Requesters allege that the Bank "has contributed to
              a set of outcomes that stand to inflict harm onforest-dependent communities in
              the nearfuture."21

      11.     The report prepared by Global Witness further elaborates on these claims and
              describes in details the policy violations the Requesters believe the Bank i s
              responsible for.          According to the Requesters, "[bloth the design and the
              execution"       o f the Project "have contravened World Bank operational
             policies.22" Intheir view, the "overall consequence" of these violations is that
              the Bank has endorsed concessionaires' activities harmful to forest dependent
              people, showing its "bias towards the concession companies." If World Bank


~~



 15  Request, Letter 1, p. 2.
  I` Request, Letter 1, p. 1.
  "Request, Letter1,p.2.
 l8  Request, Letter 1, p. 2.
*'Request,Letter
  I 9         Letter 1, p. 2.
     Request,        1, p. 2.
2 1  Request, Letter 1, p. 2.
22   Request, Attachment 1, p. 58.


                                                        4

           policies had beencomplied with, the Request alleges, the Project "would never
           have been conceived in the way it was."23

   12.     With respect to the Project's Environmental Assessment, the Requesters claim
           that the Bank did not comply with OP 4.01's requirements related to the
           classification o f the Project, the evaluation o f the impacts, public consultation
           and disclosure o f information.        According to the claimants, the Bank
           "erroneously categorized the FCMCPP project as Category B."24 In their
           view, the Project should have been categorized as "A" because the concession
           system caused "signijkant adverse environmental impacts,"                 such as
           "immediate degradation" and "damage to watershed," which under OP 4.01
           require the classification as Category A. In addition, the Requesters believe
           that an "A" classification i s warranted as the logging concessions have impacts
           that cannot be construed as "site speczjk" because they affect an area larger
           than the site o f the Project's physical works and cover "a significant portion of
           Cambodia'sforest reserve and largepopulation who inhabit or depend on itfor
           their livelihood."25

   13.     The Requesters complain that not only was the Project incorrectly categorized,
           but "the level of assessment was so low that it did not even conform to Categoy
           B standards."26The Request also includes passages from the Project Appraisal
           Document (PAD) and infers from them that "the Bank has chosen not to
           address environmental impacts at the pre-project plannin           stage and will
           instead deal with them during the implementation phase."             However, the
           claimants state, given that the Bank's EA policy "is primarily concerned with
           prior assessment of potential risks" the Bank did not comply with the policy
           because it was "unable to show any such assessment [...] asidefrom the ESIA
           [Environmental and Social Impact Assessment] work done in conjunction with
           the concessionaires themselves, the standards of which fall well short of the
           requirements of OP 4.01.'y28 The claimants believe that this happened because
           the FCMCCP is a learning and innovation loan and "Bank staffassociated with
           the FCMCCP are evidently keen to push the idea that [...I      it was therefore not
           bound by Bank operational policies."29 They conclude that if a proper
           assessment had been carried out "it is unlikely that the Bank would have
           decided to support the activities of environmentally destructive ~ompanies.~~"

   14.     The Requesters claim that "it is not clear what consultation, ifany, tookplace
           before the project began." They add that the affected people who submitted
           the Request to the Panel "were not amongst those invited toparticipate in any

23Request, Attachment 1, p. 58.
24Request, Attachment 1, p. 59.
25Request,Attachment 1, p. 59.
26Request, Attachment 1, p. 60.
27Request, Attachment 1, p. 61.
28Request, Attachment 1, p. 61.
29Request,Attachment 1,p. 61.
30Request, Attachment 1, p. 62.


                                                5

           pre-project consultation process.          ,131 According to the Requesters, although the
           Bank states that consultation was carried out through "Bank-supported
           activities of the concessionaires,           jJ2 the companies did not carry out any
           consultations during the preparation o f the management plans submitted in
           200233. When companies were indeed compelled to consult affected people in
           late 2002 and early 2003, such consultations, the Requesters claim, L`wereofa
           poor standard, with instances in whichparticipants were subject to intimidation
           by guards and oficials accompanying company representative^."^^                       It is the
           Requesters' belief that "[qn this context, Jawed consultation is arguably more
           damaging than no consultation at all."35 The Request also states that the Bank
           did not ensure that the Sustainable Forest Management Plans (SFMPS)~~and
           ESIAs were disclosed to community representatives inNovember 2002.37

    15.    The Requesters claim that the Bank has violated its own policy on Forests - OP
           4.36 - as it provided technical assistance to "undeserving" logging companies
           "to facilitate their future logging operations.           JJ38 They also believe that the
           Cambodian government can hardly be deemed "in compliance with all or even
           many" o f the criteria the policy demands from a government that i s committed
           to sustainable forest management.39 The Request addresses one by one these
           five criteria to document the policy violations they believe have occurred. In
           summary, they claim that the Bank has not tried to challenge the problematic
           features o f the concession system, including non-competitive and non-
           transparent concessionaires' selection process, but has adopted this concession
           system as the foundation on which to buildits project.40 The Requesters further
           maintain that no development plan outlining a clear definition o f roles for the
           government, the private sector and the local people for forestry conservation
           has been elab~rated:~'         that the concession companies have prepared "extremely
           poor" social, economical and environmental assessment; that there was no prior
           assessment o f Cambodia's production forests before parceling them into
           concession; and that the companies "have consistently disregarded forest
           dwellers ' rights and         interest^."^^ Inaddition, according to the Requesters, the
           FCMCCP has no institutional capacity, and the reorganization o f the DFW into
           the FA has worsened the situation because o f "[iJnstitutionalJlaws such as the


3'Request, Attachment 1, p. 62.
32Request, Attachment 1, p. 62.
33Request, Attachment 1, p. 62.
34Request, Attachment 1, p, 62.
35Request, Attachment 1, p. 63.
36Inthe Request, Attachment 1, (page 63), SFMP stands for Sustainable ForestManagement Plans. In
Management Response's Abbreviation List, SFMP stands for Strategic Forest Management Plans.
37Request, Attachment 1, p. 63.
38Request, Attachment 1, p. 68.
39Although the Requesters seem to refer to the current Bank policy OP 4.36 on Forests (November 2002),
the policy applicable to this Project is the old OP 4.36 on Foresty (September 1993), as the Project
Concept Review took place before January 1,2003 (See OP 4.36, November 2002, Note).
40Request, Attachment 1, p. 69.
4'Request, Attachment 1, p. 69.
42Request, Attachment 1, p. 69.


                                                       6

            lack of separation between production management and regulatory control


    16.     The Request also complains that the Bank did not undertake an assessment that
            could have identified the Cambodian forests, such as the Prey Long Forest, as
            `tforests of high ecological value.    jA4 Similarly, the Requesters claim that the
            promotion o f forest concessions in the context o f the FCMCCP will lead to
            degradation o f natural habitats, inviolation o f OP 4.04.45 They state that the six
            management plans approved under the Project (with the "proposed
            o ~ e r c u t t i n g ~ ~ " )
                                    and the past behavior o f the companies indicate that this
            degradation will continue.47 According to the Requesters, "[ilt appears that the
           project's architects and executors have declined to consider theforests slated
           for logging as natural habitats.         Once again, the Requesters believe that this
            failure has ledto a "poorly conceivedproject."49

    17.     The Request claims that "Cambodia 's indigenous people, notably the Kouy
            minority [.. .] are directly affected by the logging concessionaires."         The
            Requesters state that these populations live in the forests in the north and
            northeastern part o f the country - "the heart of Cambodia 's logging concession
            system." Their livelihood and culture are "intrinsically linked with theforests"
            and this "makes them particularly vulnerable to the impacts of industrial
            logging operation^."^^ Inthe Requesters' opinion, the Bank seems not to have
            identified issues relatedto indigenous peoples.51

    18.     The Requesters claim that "the Bank deemed that no indigenous people s plan
            was required," because, among other reasons, concession plans approved under
            the Project adequately addressed social issues and a social consultant had been
            hired to look into how the concessionaires deal with the social impacts at the
            compartment (five year) planning                    The Requesters argue that an
            indigenous people development plan was necessary under OD 4.20 on
            Indigenous Peoples because the "very existence" o f an indigenous peoples
            policy suggests that "this issue is distinct from broader question of social
            impacts." Moreover, they add, analysts from the Bank itself "have consistently
            dismissed the idea that consideration of these [social impacts] can be relegated
            to the compartment five year) planning



43 Request, Attachment 1, p. 70.
44 Request, Attachment 1,p. 70.
45 Request, Attachment 1, p. 71.
46 Request, Attachment 1, p. 71.
47 Request, Attachment 1,p. 71.
48 Request, Attachment 1, p. 71.
49 Request, Attachment 1, p. 72.
   Request, Attachment 1, p. 64.
5 'Request, Attachment 1, p.65.
52 Request,Attachment 1, p. 66.
53 Request, Attachment 1, p. 66.


                                                   7

    19.     The Request also mentions that under a 2001 Cambodian Law, the indigenous
           people have a prior claim to the land on which they practice traditional
            agriculture, including "lands held in reservefor thesepurposes." According to
           the Request, this should lead to repealing the "competing claims from logging
            concessions companies whose contracts were issuedprior to 2001     ."

    20.    According to the Requesters, the Bank has also violated the policy on Cultural
           Property, OPN 1I.3. Although the six logging concessions areas approved
           under the Project "contain both spirit forests and sites of archeological
            importance that undoubtedly constitute cultural property," no survey of these
            sites was carried out during Project ~reparati0n.j~The Requesters further
            complain that the Bank did not take into account the concerns o f the
            communities in and around the concession areas about the inclusion o f spirit
            forests inthe concessionaires' management ~ 1 a n s . j ~

    21.     The Requesters allege that the Bank has failed to comply with OP/BP 8.40 on
            Technical Assistance. In their view, there are deficiencies in the work o f the
            Technical Assistance (TA) consultants, such as assisting and advising logging
            companies that "should have been excluded" from the consultants' terms of
            reference, and refusing to take into account the prohibition under Cambodian
            Law on cutting resin-producing trees.j6 These failures, according to the
            Requests, also violate the policy on ~upervision.~~

    22.     The Requesters state that the World Bank has been "negligent" in its
            supervision o f the FCMCCP58,thus violating the related policy OP/BP 13.05.
            Section 2 o f the Global Witness report - Project Implementation - includes a
            detailed account of the alleged policy "breaches"59 by the Bank.            The
            Requesters believe that once the implementation o f the Project began, "the case
            against the concession system and its operators [...I   strengthened [...I more
                                                                                    as
            evidence of concessionaires ' illegal activities emerged.60" They contend that
            the Bank tolerated the FCMCCP's "indulgent view of forest crimes by the
            concessionaires.yy61What i s more, the Request adds, in June 2004 the Bank
            recommended to the government the approval o f the six companies' logging
            plans6*. Other violations o f the supervision policy that the Requesters believe
            occurred are: inadequate and inappropriate consultations during the preparation
            of the SFMPs and EIAs; failure to observe minimum standards in the 2003
            forest cover survey developed under the Project; and the Bank inaction to stop
            the companies to log resin trees, which is an illegal activity that will further

~~     ~




54 Request, Attachment 1, p.74.
55 Request, Attachment 1, p. 75.
5G Request, Attachment 1, p. 74.
57 See Request,Attachment 1, pp. 20, 21, 72.
58 Request,Attachment 1, p. 72.
59 Request, Attachment 1, p. 72.
` ORequest,Attachment 1, p. 19.
"Request,Attachment1,p.19.
62 Request,Attachment 1, p. 19.


                                               8

          impoverish the people.63 In the Requesters' view, "lack of supervision has
          accounted for many of the FCMCPP's damaging acts and omissions [...I
          [which] in turn have contributed to the project's overall negative impact :
          legitimating of aflawed system and rogue concessionaires that cause material
          harm toforest-dependent communities."@

   23.    The Requesters conclude their submission to the Panel by stating that the
          FCMCCP is harmful, because o f the "Bank's determination to keep the
          concessionaires ~perating."~~    They believe that the project was conceived
          within the Bank "around the assumption that the concession system would work
          and this could be demonstrated through its [the Bank] project intervention.66"
          However, the Requesters add, "this distortion that the Bank introduced in the
          project's conceptual framework has driven the FCMCCP's constant effort to
          lower the bar for the concessionaires and ensure that some of them stay in
          business."6'

   24.     In its Notice of Registration, the Panel noted that the above claims may
           constitute violations by the Bank of various provisions o f the following
           operational Policies andProcedures:

      OP/BP 4.01                     Environmental Assessment
      OP/BP 4.04                     Natural Habitats (September 1995)
      OPN 11.03                      Cultural Property
      O D 4.20                       Indigenous People
      OP/BP 4.36                     Forestry
      OP/BP 8.40                     Technical Assistance
      OD/OP/BP 13.05                 Project Supervision
      BP 17.50                       Disclosure o f Information


D.ManagementResponse

   25.     On March 8, 2005, Management submitted its response to the Request. The
           Response provides background information on the Project and discusses a
           number of challenges encountered during implementation, such as issues
           related to the logging concession systems and poor logging practices; log
           transport permits; a weak national forest revenue management system; and
           tensions among various stakeholders. The Response also discusses in detail the
           so-called "special issues" o f this project (1) Bank approach to the forestry
           issues; (2) weakness in Cambodian governance institutions and (3) forestry
           management instruments. It also includes "lesson learned" and "next step"


63Request,Attachment 1, p. 73.
64Request,Attachment I,p.73.
65Request,Attachment 1, p. 81.
66Request, Attachment 1, p. 81.
"Request,Attachment1,p.81.



                                             9

         sections. Detailed responses to each specific claim raisedby the Requesters are
        provided inAnnex 1of Management Response.

   26.  The "lesson learned" section o f the Response frames many of the difficulties
        the Bank faced, and i s facing, in Cambodia and with the FCMCPP Project in
        particular. Management states that the "Bank chose to address afocused and
        prioritized set of issues" such as concession management, forest crime and
        community forestry.68 It also argues that while this Project attempted to
        "introduce the concept of social responsibility" in the Cambodian management
        o f public resources, it was not enough to "address the underlying distrust"
        against the concession system.69 ``In retrospect", Management claims, "many
        crucial issues might have been more effectively addressed at an earlier stage,"
        and the Bank could have ``played a more proactive role" in ensuring the
        involvement o f local communities since the Project design phase, possibly
        through "conditionalities in the legal agreement concerning social
        Further, having recognized that         "Project    implementation was slow,"
        Management maintains that the Bank "repeatedly raised concerns with the
         Government about its performance [...I"although, "in retrospect'' it admits that
        the Bank could have beenmore aggressive in questioning the Government and
        more outspoken invoicing its concern^.^'

   27.  With respect to alleged instances of non-compliance the Requesters raise,
        Management believes that it "made every effort to apply its policies and
        procedures [.,-1'' although it recognizes not being "in full compliance with
        processing and documentation provisions of OP 4.01 and OD 4.20 during
        project prep~ration."~~  Management adds, however, that "[tlo have complied
        fully  with the policies, the Bank should have requested more explicit
        documentation from the Government and provided more extensive explanation
        in the PAD. Local-level consultations on the proposed project concept should
        have been held at selected concession locations. ,773 According to Management,
        the "lack of full compliance" with the policies "has not had a material effect on
        the project nor has it led to harm or potential future harm to people living in
        project affected areas."74 It also states that the "Bank did anticipate the social
        and environmental issues associated with theproject, incorporated processes to
        address    these   issues  into   the project     and   supervised   the project
        appropriately. rj75 According to the Response, any h a m the Requesters may
        have suffered has not been caused by the Bank-financed FCMCCP. It i s
        Management's view that "the Requesters 'rights or interests have not been, nor


  ManagementResponse,7 64.
69ManagementResponse,7 64.
70ManagementResponse,7 64.
71ManagementResponse,164.
72ManagementResponse,173.
73ManagementResponse,139.
74ManagementResponse,740.
75ManagementResponse,7 73.


                                           10

         will they be, directly and adverseZy affected by a failure of the Bank to
         implement itspolicies andprocedures.      ,176


   28.   In its Response, Management challenges one of the main allegations included
         in the Request - that the Bank has promoted the interest of the logging
         concessions and the concessionaires - and states that, to the contrary, the
         FCMCCP Project triedto assist the government o f Cambodia (GOC) to regulate
         the forestry sector in a "more effective and equitable77" way, The Response
         explains that the Cambodian forest concession system was established in 1994
         without Bank assistance. However, as it became clear in Cambodia and in the
         international community that the country needed a "transparent and
         accountable system to control and manage the concession system," the Bank
         decided to assist the government in this effort. Although several issues were
         expected to emerge, such as conflicts o f interests and capacity limitations,
         Management claims that, at the time o f Project preparation, the Bank, NGOs
         and other donors "were optimistic about working constructively with
         concessionaires.78y~   The Response emphasizes that the Project did not provide
         any funds to forest concessionaires, because "Project funding seeks to build
         capacities within the Government79"for forest crime monitoring and reporting
         in general and to help the FA to control illegal logging." Management also
         states that the Project "was based on extensiveprior studies", such as an ADB-
         commissioned review (the Fraser Thomas study), the BanWFAOIUNEP Forest
         Policy Assessment, and Bank supervision o f a previous Technical Assistance
         Project (TA) approved in December 1994 (Credit No. 2664-KH)."             These
         studies recognized .that forest and other land had been misallocated to
         concessionaires.     Thus, Management continues,      "the project 's process
         orientation was intended toprovide apractical contextfor reassessment of land
         andforest use, based on site-specijk data."82

    29.  With respect to the erroneous environmental categorization o f the Project
         claimed by the Requesters, Management believes that "the decision to class@
         this project as a "B " was correct and appr~priate."~~  The categorization o f a
         project depends on various factors, including the "nature and magnitude of its
         potential environmental impacts," and is normally based on "expected impacts
         on-the-g~ound.~~"    According to Management, a forestry project i s typically
         classified as A when it involves plantation activities or production forestry.
         This Project was categorized as B because o f its "interventions," such as
         strengthening the capacity o f Cambodia and forest crime monitoring and

'`Management  Response,7 73.
77 Management Response,Annex 1, Item 1, p. 25.
78 Management Response,Annex 1, Item 1, p. 25
79 Management Response, Annex 1, Item 1, p. 25
8o Management Response, Annex 1, Item 1, p. 26.
   Management Response,Annex 1, Item2, p. 26
82 Management Response,Annex 1, Item2,p.26.
83 Management Response,Annex 1, Item5, p. 29.
84 ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item5, p. 29


                                               11

        reporting. It was not rated C, the Response notes, because of concerns about
        the social and environmental         implications o f the concession system.
        Management acknowledges that the files do not show that the draft
        Environmental Data Sheet reflecting the B categorization was finalized, but
        notes that the rationale for the B categorization i s explained in the Project
        Information Document (PID).85

   30.  Management states that no Environmental Assessment (EA) was carried out
        prior to appraisal,86 but adds that "no A-level EA process was req~ired."'~
        Management also claims that the project design incorporates measures to
        address the Project's environmental and social problems."         The Response
        explains that "[s]pecijk planning decisions to be made at each location could
        not be known in advance" and "the value added of additional up-front impact
        analysis was, therefore, questionable [.  .      A `>rocess-oriented approach''
        was thus preferred".     However, Management recognizes that the PID "did not
        record the type of environmental impacts, make note o f the type o f EA or EA
        instruments needed or of a proposed consultation s~hedule.~'"Management
        adds that "[wlhile noting that the processing requirements for a LIL were not
        well developed at the time, Management acknowledges, nevertheless, that the
        Bank was not infull compliance with OP 4.01."92

   31.  Management also recognizes that the only environmental assessment work
        undertaken during the Project's first four years was the ESIA that each
        concessionary was required to prepare under Cambodian law.               It also
        acknowledges that there are still no "satisfactory standards" for the preparation
        o f the ESIAs and the sixteen developed so far by the concessionaires "have
        been           In view of this, the Response states, "of these concessions, ten
        have either been cancelled by the Government, withdrawn voluntarily or
        identiJied for rejection by the FA."94          Six concessions remain under
        consideration and are still subject to rejection or further requirements.
        Management claims that it will "continue to work with the Government to
        improve the quality of the ESIA through the ongoing independent Review of
        SFMPs and ESIAs, recommendations of which have been provided to
        MAFF. ""




*`ManagementResponse,739.
85                    Annex 1, Item5, p. 30.
*'ManagementResponse,Annex
  ManagementResponse,       1, Item6, p. 30.
  ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item6, p. 30.
89ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item6, p. 30.
90ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item6, p.30.
9'ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item6, p. 30.
92ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item6, p. 30.
93ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item7, p. 31.
94ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item7, p.31.
95ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item7, p. 31.


                                             12

   32.  The Requesters also complain about lack o f disclosure o f the SFMPs and the
        ESIAs.     Management responds that "although not required under Bank
        policies, proper disclosure" of these documents was a "pressing" concern for
        the Bank.96 According to the Response, although disclosure was agreed with
        the Government inJune 2002, the FA resisted the publication o f the documents.
        ``After much pressure from the Bank" in October 2002 the Government agreed
        to disclose the draft SFMPs, and the FA to place Khmer versions o f the plans in
        each affected commune. The documents were also to be publicly available in
        the Bank's Public Information Center (PIC), though problems arose because
        NGO representatives complained that color copies o f these documents were not
        available inthe Bank's Public Information Center.97 The dispute was solved in
        November 12, 2002, when several copies were provided to NGOs.
        Management concludes, however, that "public disclosures of documents could
        have been planned better" and that expectations o f disclosure have not been
        managed properly.98

   33.  With respect to the claim that affected communities were not consulted,
        Management states that "there were no consultations speciJic to the EA
        process."99 However, Management claims that "the project builds on''
        consultations carried out in the context o f the above-mentioned TA project, on
        ADB-supported consultation, on "Bank work during the identipcation mission,"
        and consultations conducted on community forestry during the Fraser Thomas
        study'".   Inaddition, the Response claims that the Bank consulted with NGOs
        in 1998 when it assisted the Government in the design of the forest planning
        system and drafting of regulation, guidelines and codes.       A workshop with
        NGOs was also organized in 1999 to discuss forest certification. Management
        acknowledges that "the quality of consultations may have been affected by the
        presence of higher level officials," although it maintains that at the time o f the
        project appraisal "there was suficient information       about the social and
        environmental aspects of the concession management system to design a
        process to address these aspects.'0'" Management also claims that this
        consultation process "led to a set of criteria and guidelines for sustainable
        production/concession forest management, specipcally [...] protecting the
        rights of the communities/people.'"02

   34.  As to lack of consultations during the preparation of the ESIAs, the Response
        emphasizes that the Bank did not finance any activities o f the concessionaires
        and does not endorse any claim that the companies have conducted the
        consultations adequately. However, the Response claims that such consultations


'6ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item22, p. 40.
'*ManagementResponse,Annex1,
O7                         1, Item22, p. 4 1.
  ManagementResponse, Annex   Item22, p. 41.
"ManagementResponse,Annex I,Item8,p.3I.
loo
  ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item8, p. 31.
lo'
  ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item8, p. 32.
lo*
  ManagementResponse, Annex I,Item8, p. 32.


                                             13

           have been conducted because o f the "Bank's effort              to improve the
           Governments' management and control over the concession system.lo3" In
           addition, the Bank has made efforts "to develop linkages between NGOs,
           including the NGO Forum and the FA." When the Bank realized that the FA
           and the concessionaires were not carrying out adequate consultations, the Bank
           recommendedto the Government to hire an international consultant to preparea
           "step by step manual" for community consultations. Moreover, Management
           adds that the "Bank has monitored the consultationprocess" and pointed out its
           weaknesses to the GovemmentIo4.On the other hand, Management states that
           consultations with affected communities in each concession area are the
           responsibility of the concessionaires when they prepare their compartment and
           annual plansIo5. With respect to the Requesters' allegation o f intimidation
           during the consultation process, Management responds that "the Bank cannot
           take action against non-Bank stafJ:'06" However, Management contacted
           "immediately" MAFF after the intimidation incidents referred to by the
           Requesters.`07     "The Government's account" Mana ement claims, "did not
           support the allegation of threats having been made.""  F

     35.   In response to the allegation of non-compliance with the Bank policy on
           Forestry, Management reiterates that the Project does not finance logging
           operations, including in high ecological value areas,'"            nor have the
           concessionaires received any Bank funds. The Response again emphasizes that
           the Project has supported activities permittedby OP 4.36, such as inventory and
           fields control, capacity building and system development.'      lo   Management
           maintains that the Bank has engaged in Cambodian forestry, and particularly in
           the FCMCPP, based on ``$rank dialogue" with the Government as well as
           NGOs, and has received "repeated assurances of commitment to a sustainable
          forest policy.yy'   `'   Management claims that the Project is a "vehicle to
           test "Il2and if possible "convert that commitment to an ongoing program," and
           lists a series o f actions from both the Bank and the GOC working towards that
           goal. It i s Management's view that, although the "progress of the Government
           on the reform agenda was and continues to be uneven" it was encouraging.'     j 3


     36.   Management also believes it i s in compliance with OP 4.04 because "[nlo'
           degradation o f critical habitats has occurred due to the project."It4 It adds that


I O 3ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item9, p.32.
I O 4ManagementResponse, Annex I,Item9,p. 33.
lo'  ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item9, p. 33.
     ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item 10, p. 33.
lo'  ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item 10, p. 34.
Io*  ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item 10, p. 34.
IO9  ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item 16, p.37.
`Io  ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item 14, p. 36.
`I'  ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item 14, p. 36.
` I 2Management Response, Annex 1, Item 14, p. 36.
     ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item 14, p. 37.
`I4  Management Response, Annex 1, Item 17,p. 38.


                                                  14

             no concession over new areas has been approved because of the Project and the
             planning guidelines for existing concessions prevent the issuance o f cutting
             permits before completing the forest management planning process, which
             requires the preparation of three plans (strategic concession-wide 25 years; 5-
             year compartment and annual). The Response claims that no cutting permits
             have been issued to date. With respect to biodiversity issues, the Response
             states that the Bank identified biodiversity concerns since the beginning o f its
             work in Cambodian forestry. Under the Project, the Government adopted the
             "Biodiversity Conservation Guidelines for the Managed Forest," prepared in
             collaboration with WCS and revised based on a field study supported through
             Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program grant resources, and a Biodiversity
             Code of Practice."'

      37.    The Request claims that the Project adversely affects the Kouy indigenous
             peoples but did not take them into consideration.        Acknowledging that the
             "Bank was not in full compliance with OD 4.20," Management responds that
             the policy was deemed applicable during preparation though "no efforts were
             made to developpolicies andplans in accordance with OD 4.20.""6 It adds that
             "the project approach was to develop, together with and as part of the general
             consultation process, criteria and guidelines for community engagement in
             concession areas with local people" but admits that "in hindsight, screening
             studies and a framework Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, along with
             more discussion of the issue, would have been more appropriate during project
             design.""'   Management claims that the importance o f this issue has been later
             recognized in Aide Memoires and BTOs in 2003 and 2004, which
             recommended      "to     revise     comprehensive    guidelines  for  community
             consultations" to include, inter alia, specific provisions for Indigenous Peoples
             and protection o f cultural and spiritual resources.' l8

      38.    Management acknowledges also that no Indigenous Peoples Development
             Plans were prepared under the Project, because "Indigenous Peoples issues
             were to have been embedded in the SFMPs and ESIAs prepared by the
             concessionaires. ""'The      SFMPs and the ESIAs should have addressed issues
             such as the identification o f forest dependent communities and consultations
             about their rights. Management recognizes that "guidelines for community
             consultations are dispersed in various documents and manuals" and that the
             "Bank had already acknowledged this, because the SFMPs and ESIAs were
             inadequate and theprocess of consultationflawed."'20




~         ~~




 `I5  Management Response, Annex 1, Item 19, p. 38.
      Management Response, Annex 1, Item 12, p. 34.
 'I7  Management Response, Annex 1, Item 12, p. 34.
 `I8  Management Response, Annex 1, Item 12, p. 35.
 ` I 9Management Response, Annex 1, Item 13, p. 35.
      Management Response, Annex 1, Item 13, p. 35.


                                                   15

    39.   Management "believes that the project complies with OPN 11.03" on Cultural
          Property, since the "SFMPs and ESIAs have not been `approved"' for the six
          loggingconcession areas and "the Bank has not conveyedany endorsement.        ""'
          The Response claims that the Bank expressed concerns about spirit forests and
          sites sacred to the local communities and recommended "participatory mapping
          of community useforest," such as resin trees and spiritual, burial, village and
          bamboo forests, to exclude these areas from any form o f logging.'22
          Management also claims that the Project developed guidelines to identify and
          designate Special Management Areas, which include sacred groves, spirit
          forests, and archeological sites. However, the Response adds that, because o f
          inadequate consultations, "archeological sites may not have been identified
          yet."123 According to Management, as a step-by-step consultation manual is
          under preparation, "cultural resources to the extent that these are known to
          local communities" will be considered so that cultural resources areas will be
          excluded from commercial logging operations,      124


    40.   Management further believes it has complied with the Bank policy on Project
          Supervision.     Management emphasizes that it has "supervised the project
          intensively." The Response states that "[nline formal supervision missions
          including a mid-term review (MTR)" were conducted since June 2000."'25

    41.   The Response notes that Unsatisfactory ("U") ratings on certain aspects o f the
          project ``were first registered in December 2001                 The Development
          Objectives and Implementation Performance ratings were downgraded to "U"
          in December 2002. As of the end of 2004, the Implementation Performance
          rating i s still Unsatisfactory.'*' [The Panel observes that, as o f December 21,
          2004, Implementation Progress and Monitoring and Evaluation are rated "U."
          The Project component "Forest Crime Monitoring and Prevention" i s also rated
          Unsatisfactory.]


    42.   Management reports that a "voluntary" Quality Enhancement Review (QER)
          was also conducted upon "request of the East Asia and the Pacific (EAP)
          Region" inOctober 2003. The QERfound that, while "goodforest governance
          is far from being achieved," reforms in this area "would not be moving at all
          without Bank                       It also found, however, that the Bank image and
          its effectiveness "have suffered" in this Project because of, inter alia, "an
          insuficiently well articulated bank commitment to non concessionaire forest



12' ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item21, p. 39.
122 ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item21, p. 39.
123 ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item21, p. 40.
'"
124 ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item21, p. 40.
    ManagementResponse,7 16.
'""*ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item29, p. 45.
    ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item29, p. 45.
    Management Response, 18.
                         7

                                                16

           users, especially the rural poor in and near the forest."'29 The QER further
           expressed concerns about the effectiveness o f the LIL instrument to address
           long term forest governance issues in Cambodia and emphasized the need for
           the Bank to "develop and continuously refine a single coherent view on the
           substance and theprocess of the [Bank's] forest sector strategy."'30

     43.   In response to some o f the Requester's allegations, Management reiterates that
           the concessionaires have not received technical assistance under the FCMCCP
           Project.   The Response acknowledges that consultation conducted for the
           preparation of the SFMPs and the EIASs was inadequate and notes that a social
           forestry consultant i s preparing revised consultation guidelines to address these
           issues. Management rejects the allegation that the Bank ignored evidence o f
           the concessionaires' illegal logging and claims that the Bank has supported
           studies and proposals aimed at "strengthening controls on illegal logging and
           log transport under the TAproject." Nevertheless, Management also refers to a
           Bank-financed 1998 report on illegal logging (Findings and Recommendations
           on L o g Monitoring and Logging Control Project) and supports the report's
           finding that "without further monitoring, it is difficult to determine to what
           extent uncontrolled logging is conducted by concessionaires, their sub-
           contractors or poacher^."'^'

     44.   Management's Response includes a section on "Lessons Learned" and
           concludes with a section on "Next Steps." Management proposes a "dual track
           approach, one for actions to be taken before project closure, and the second,
           suggested options over the longer term, once theproject has                       Among
           the proposed action preceding the closure o f the Project, Management includes
           the supervision of the "ongoing work to refine ... consultation procedures in
           order to better address, inter alia, Indigenous Peoples issues;'' "[ulrging the
            Government to formalize forest management planning procedures for post-
           concession and non-concession areas"; and "[sleekin                   a decision by the
           Government on concessions recommended for c10sure'~~'"Options"proposed
           for the post-project period include, among others, "[...]tofacilitate a transition
           from an international monitor to a participatory system of forest crime
           monitoring;'' and to apply the "lessons learned in the forestry sector to the
           broader dialogue on land/economic concession ref~rms.'~~''                The Bank also
           plans to keep its dialogue with the Government open so as to solve the
           outstanding issues affecting Cambodia's natural resources management'35.




     Management Response, 7 18.
I 3 OManagement Response, 7 18.
I3l  Management Response, Annex 1, Item 27, p. 43. The Report was financed under the 1994 TA Project.
132  Management Response, 7 65.
`33  Management Response, 7 66.
134  Management Response, 7 67.
135  Management Response, 7 71.


                                                   17

E.Eligibility

  45.  The Panel must determine whether the Request satisfies the eligibility criteria
       for an Inspection, as set forth inthe 1993 Resolution establishing the Panel and
       the 1999 Clarifications, and recommend whether the matter alleged in the
       Request shouldbe investigated. .

  46.  The Panel has reviewed the Request and Management's Response. The Panel
       Chairperson, EdithBrown Weiss, together with Panel member Tongroj Onchan
       and Executive Secretary Eduardo Abbott, visited Cambodia from March 12
       through March 19, 2005. During their visit, the Panel Members met with the
       signatories o f the Request for Inspection and with over a hundred affected
       villagers from several communes, with the NGO Social Forum, Global Witness,
       Wildlife Conservation Society, Oxfam GB, and other local nongovernmental
       organizations, with national govemment officials, with the Danida Resident
       Representative in Phnom Penh, and with local Bank management and staff and
       the Country Director in Bangkok. The affected villagers with whom the Panel
       met included indigenous people.

  47.  The Panel i s satisfied that the Request meets all o f the eligibility criteria
       provided inthe 1993 Resolution andparagraph 9 o f the 1999 Clarifications.

  48.  Duringthe visit, the Panel confirmed that the Requesters are legitimate parties
       under the Resolution to submit a Request for Inspectionto the Inspection Panel.
       The villagers living in four different logging concession areas have a common
       interest and common concerns and reside in the Borrower's territory, as
       required in Paragraph 9(a). The Request also indicates that affected villagers
       have authorized the NGO Forum on Cambodia to represent their interests to the
       InspectionPanel.

  49.  The Panel notes that the Request "assert[s] in substance that a serious violation
       by the Bank of its operational policies and procedures has or is likely to have
       material adverse effect upon the requesters." The Requesters assert that
       "throughflawed project design and poor implementation, the World Bank has
       promoted the interests of         the logging concession system and the
       concessionaires [...Idespite abundant evidence that the companies have
       already caused harm toforest-dependent communities and will continue to do
       so." The Requesters allege that the "World Bank has not succeeded in
       introducing any additional checks and balances to the concession system that
       would compel the companies to operate differently from the way that they did
       before."    Moreover, "the World Bank project endorsement has in fact
       strengthened theposition of these six companies," who will now "present their
       operations as having the WorldBank seal of approval." The Request notes that
       "[slome companies are already using this endorsement to deflect criticism of
       their past and future actions, making it even more dijjjcult for adversely
       affected communities to hold them to account."



                                          18

    50.   The Requesters assert that they have suffered serious harm or will suffer harm
          in the future, because the project "has contributed to a set of outcomes that
          stand to inflict harm on forest-dependent communities in the near future."
          Duringthe Panel's visit, the Requesters and other affected people stressed their
          grave concern about the destruction o f their livelihoods which depend upon the
          forests, because o f the logging o f resin trees, loss o f access to non-timber
          products in forests, such as fruits and medicinal plants, and elimination o f
          wildlife from the destruction o f the forest.

     51.  Some o f the Requesters are indigenous people who have centuries old ancestral
          ties to the forests and are dependent upon access to and use o f the forests for
          income. They fear the Project will destroy their way o f life and their culture,
          which relies on forests.

    52.   The Requesters allege that the World Bank actions constitute a violation o f
          Bank policies and procedures on forests, environmental assessment, indigenous
          peoples, and supervision and that these actions have had a significant adverse
          effect on the Requesters' rights, as required by paragraph 9(b).

     53.  Management Response alleges that "neither the four local communities who
          submitted the letter noted under item (i) [the Request] nor their representative
          had previously communicated with the Bank on the spec@ claims asserted in
          the letter."136The Request, however, provides a list o f letters and meetings
          between the NGO Forum on Cambodia, Global Witness, Oxfam GB (a member
          o f the NGO Forum on Cambodia), and the World Bank, and minutes o f
          meetings between the World Bank and the NGOs mentioned above. The Panel
          was able to confirm that the World Bank has been aware from the outset o f
          concerns from civil society about the Project's adverse effects on villages in
          concession areas, and that for the last four years numerous complaints about the
          Project, including from people represented in the Request for Inspection, have
          been brought to the Bank's attention.

     54.  Indeed, Management Response acknowledges that there have been numerous
          exchanges with civil society where all these concerns were voiced and
          discussed.137 According to the Requesters and their representatives, these
          include a November 2002 meeting where eight members o f the Requesters'
          villages visited the World Bank Phnom Penh office and complained about the
          destruction o f forests and the harmful effects on commune life. In addition,
          during its field visit, local communities confirmed to the Panel that on March
          17, 2004, representatives from the four different concession areas signing the
          Request participated in a meeting in Phnom Penh where the issues raised inthe

~~




 13`Management Response,7 4.
 `37Management Response,Annex 1, Item22. See also ManagementResponse, Annex 5, whichdescribes
the meetingreferencedinAnnex 1as anNGO-ledWorkshop with "NGO-led discussions with
communities" and "with several sets of comments submitted."


                                                 19

         Request for Inspectionwere discussed. The Request for Inspection states that at
         this particular meeting "an expert from the World Bank," in referring to the
         concession system, asked "Why do you say it isfinished? We have worked hard
         to improve the logging concession system and it is good now, it is almost
         operating again.'' According to the Request, this made clear to the
         representatives that the "World Bank is supporting the logging concession
         system" and that the "World Bank had loaned money to the government to help
         the logging companies prepare management plans so that they can log again."

    55.  The Panel i s therefore satisfied that the Request "does assert that the subject
         matter has been brought to Management's attention and that, in the
         Requesters' view, Management hasfailed to respond adequately demonstrating
         that it has followed or is taking steps to follow the Bank's policies and
         procedures.     " Hence, the Requestmeets the requirement o f Paragraph 9(c).

    56.  The Panel notes that the subject matter of the Request i s not related to
         procurement, as requiredby paragraph 9(d).

    57.  The expected closing date o f the related loan i s June 30, 2005. Only about 73
         percent o f the Credit had been disbursed as o f the date the Request was filed.
         The Request therefore satisfies the requirement in paragraph 9(e) that the
         related Credit has not been closed or substantially di~bursed.'~~

    58.  Furthermore, the Panel has not previously made a recommendation on the
          subject matter o f the Request.Therefore, the Request satisfies paragraph 9(Q.

    59.  The Panel notes the importance for economic development o f undertaking risky
         projects and acknowledges that the Bank has been willing to provide financing
         indifficult situations where other sources o f financing have been wary o f doing
          so. The Panel welcomes Management's willingness to take risks in supporting
          activities in a complex and controversial area like the forestry sector in
         Cambodia. Inthe instant Request, however, the Panel notes the allegations that
         the Credit has led to support for a system o f private logging concessions, which
          i s perceived by many as causing serious harm.                    The World Bank actions
          connected with this alleged result are the subject o f this Request for Inspection.

    60.   The Panel also notes that Management's Response contains a number of
         remedial actions that in Management's view would address the Requesters'
          concerns and improve Project implementation. While these actions indicate
          Management's intention to comply with the policies and procedures invoked by
         the Requesters, the Panel i s not satisfied that they would ensure compliance
         with, inter alia, the applicable environmental and indigenous peoples policies.
          The Panel cannot be satisfied that the actions described by Management in the
         Response would, by themselves, demonstrate prima facie compliance with

~




.I3*
   According to the Resolution that established the Panel, "this will be deemed to be the case when at least
ninety9vepercent of the loan proceeds have been disbursed." Footnote to Paragraph 14 (c).


                                                    20

    Bank policies and procedures as required by the Resolution. The Panel,
    therefore, cannot refrainfrom recommendingan investigation.

61. In order to ascertain compliance, or lack thereof, the Panel must conduct an
    appropriate review o f all relevant facts and applicable policies and procedures.
    The Requesters, Management's Response, the Panel's visit to Cambodia,
    interviews with Govemment officials, Bank staff, and affected persons,
    confirmed that there are sharply differing views on the issues raised by the
    Request for Inspection.

F. Conclusions

62. The Requesters and the Request meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the
    Resolution that established the Inspection Panel and the 1999 Clarifications.
    The Request and Management Response contain conflicting assertions and
    interpretations about the issues, the facts, and compliance with Bank policies
    and procedures.

63. In light of the foregoing, the Panel recommends that an investigation be
    conducted.




                                       21


       Annex 1

REQUESTFORINSPECTION


.



   21January 2005                                                        .,
                                                                                             .n




   Office ofthe InspectionPanel
   World Bank
   1818 MStreet, M.W.
   WashingtonDC 20433
   UnitedStates ofAmerica


                                         Requestfor Inspection:
              ForestConcessionManagement andControl (Pilot) Proiect      - Cambodia
   The NGO Forum on Cambodia, actingas arepresentativeofaffectedlocal communities,
   wishto submitthe ForestConcessionManagementandControl (Pilot) Project (FCMCPP) in
   Cambodiafor Inspection.

   Insupportofthis InspectionPanelrequest, we attachanumberofsupportingdocuments:
       1. Two letters fromrepresentativesofaffectedcommunities, includingEnglish
           translations;
       2. Reportpreparedby Global Witnessprovidingdetailsof the case andthe violations of
           WorldBankpolicies which occurred [Still under revision -may be sent a week
           later];
       3. Copiesof previous correspondencebetweenNGOsandthe World Bank regarding
           forestry inCambodia.

   The NGO Forum on Cambodiais a Cambodia-basedNGOmembershiporganisation
   representingboth international andlocalNGOs. We are a recognisednon-government
   organisationregisteredwiththe CambodianGovernment. For the past few years, we have
   conductedaForestLivelihoods Projectthat has facilitated the networking and advocacy of
   NGOsworking inforest concessionandex-concessionareas and the ruralcommunities they
    support.

    We have decidedto take this actionafter receiving letters froma number ofvillagers, signed
    inMarch2004, askingusto representtheir requestthatthe InspectionPanelofthe World
    Bankinspectall ofthe actionsofthe WorldBank-financedFCMCPP, which supportsthe
    loggingconcessionsysteminCambodia. Pleasenote that the local community
   representativeswho signedthe letters haverequestedthat their namesbe kept confidential.

    Since the villagers wrote their letters, the FCMCPPhas endorsed forest concession
    managementplansof six forest concessioncompanies, pavingthe way for the possible
    resumptionoflogging by companiesthat havea poorrecordwithregardto the protectionof
    community rights and livelihoods. As statedinthe villagers' letters, aresumption of logging
    will surelyentail arepeatofthe kindsofabusesvillagers havesuffered inthe past. The

FCMCPP and Bank staff have also continued to endeavour to facilitate the movement of logs
cut illegally, including trees that villagers tapped for resin. We perceive that inits
commissioning and supervision of the FCMCPP, the Bank has violated a number of its
operational policies leading to harmor potential future harm to people livinginthe project-
affected areas.

Over the past few years, NGOs inCambodiahave raised with Bank staff problems associated
with the FCMCPP on numerousoccasions (see sample of correspondence attached), While
some of the responseshave beenencouraging, the violation of World Bank policies and the
potential harm to forest-dependent communities has not been substantially addressed.

The NGO Forumfinally decided to represent the above-mentionedvillagers inameetingheld
on 10' January 2005. The NGOForum's Management Committee (a group elected from our
members)heardopinions from NGOs involved inforestry andhumanrightsissues andfrom
NGOsoperating inthe project-affec tedareas before makingtheir decision.

Our concern i s that:
     1, Through flawedproject designandpoor implementation, the WorldBank has
        promoted the interests of the logging concession system andthe concessionaires.
        This despiteabundantevidencethat the companieshave already causedharmto
        forest-dependent communities and will continue to do so. Here, it i s worth noting that
        the World Bank hadaround five years worth of information about the
        concessionaires'track records before the FCMCPP began.
    2. A key element of the FCMCPP has been assisting the companiesintheir production
        of sustainable forest managementplans (SFMPs) andenvironmental and social impact
        assessments (ESIAs).The concessionaireshave beenrequiredto produce these as a
        precondition for continued logging. The Bank is thus usingloan money to benefit
        logging companies that have a track recordof timber theft, tax evasion and human
        rightsabuses. This would appear somewhat at odds with the Bank's stated goals of
        poverty reduction andpromotion of good governance.
    3. By allowing its project to endorsethe sustainable forest managementplans and
        environmental impact assessments of six of these companies, the World Bank has
         increasedthe likelihood that they will continue to maintaincontrol of their
         concessions. At the same time, the Bank has not succeededinintroducing any
         additional checks andbalances to the concession system that would compel the
        companies to operate differently from the way that they didbefore.
     4. The World Bank project endorsementhas infact strengthenedthe position of these six
         companies, which hereon will present their operations as having the World Bank seal
         of approval. Some companies are already usingthis endorsement to deflect criticism
         of their past andfuture actions, making it even more difficult for adversely affected
        communities to hold them to account.
     5. Through its acts andomissions, the World Bank has contributed to a set of outcomes
         that standto inflict harmon forest-dependent communities in the near future.

While the above-mentioned GlobalWitness report provides details of the Bank's violations
of Bank operational policies, anumber of these violations are summarised below:

   erati&     Policy OP 4.36 -Forests
For the Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project in Cambodia the applicable
World Bank ForestPolicy would be OP 4.36, September 1993, along with relevant Annexes,

c .




       as this was the operational policy inplace at the time of FCMCPP design andinitial
       implementation. The Policy says:
       operations... in primaly tropical moistforests.
                                           ' ' . e . . the Bank Group does notfinance commercial logging
                                                             I'



       The Bankhas breachedthis Operational Policy, though indirectly, inits provision of loan-
       backed technical assistanceto commercial loggingcompanies that is designed to facilitate
       their future operations.

       Operational Policy on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01)
       The Bankhas breachedanumber of provisions of this operational policy:
               Misclassification of the project as a lower impact category B project, rather than high-
               Impact category A. This lowered the level of environmental assessmentthat the
               project would be requiredto carry out.
               Lack of environmental assessment even to category B standards-infact, it appears
               that no meaningful environmental assessment was carried out before the project
               began.
               Poor standards of public consultation -Here the breach is twofold: lack of public
               consultation during the project planning stage and thenflawedpublic consultations
                duringits implementationstage.
               Poor standards of disclosure -this breach centres on the disclosure of the
               concessionaires' SFMPs andESIAs inlate 2002. This was marredby a failure to
               properly disclose inwhich the Bank's Phnom Penh office was directly involved.

       Ope-1        Directive 4 70 -In-                 Peoples
       Cambodia's indigenous people, notably the Kuy minority (who are represented among those
       who have drafted letters to the InspectionPanel), are directly affected by the logging
       concessionaires. Under OD 4.20, the Bank must ensure "infonned participation          ' Iby
       indigenous people andproposedprojects that could impact on indigenous people, such as
       those relating to forestry, should be assessedcarefully. Screening of projects for such
       impacts should usually take place via environmental assessment, which as noted above,
       appearsnot to have beenundertaken for the FCMCPP. OD 4.20 states that "For a
       investmentproject that affects indigenouspeoples, the borrower should prepare an
       indigenouspeople 's developmentplan that is consistent with the Bank's policy. Any project
       that affects indigenouspeoples is expected to include components orprovisions that
       incorporate such aplan.   If


       Operational Policy OP 13.05 -Project SuDervision -   . .
       The Policy states, '?ISa development agency, the Bank also has an interest in assisting
       member countries to achieve their development objectives on a sustainable basis. To these
       ends, recognizing thatproject implementation is the borrower 's responsibility, the Bank
       supervises the borrower 's implementation of Bank-financed projects.        'I



       Project supervision is required inorder to "(a) ascertain whether the borrower is carrying
       out theproject with due diligence to achieve its development objectives in conformity with the
       legal agreements; (b) identify problems promptly as they arise during implementation and
       recommend to the borrower ways to resolve them; (c) recommend changes inproject concept
       or design, as appropriate, as theproject evolves or circumstances change.       'I



       Examples of the Bank's poor supervision of the FCMCPP include:

   *    Allowing project technical assistance to be offeredto companies that should have
        been excluded under the terms of reference given to the TA consultants;
    *   Overlooking the project requirements to undertake Environmental Assessment and
        produce an Indigenous People'splan;
        Failure to ensure that the planning processes for SFMPs andESIAscarried out under
        the auspices of the project includedadequateand appropriate consultation;
        Failure to ensure quality of the 2003 forest cover survey that the FCMCPPproduced.

To our knowledge, the FCMCPP hasnot yet reachedthe 95% completion point beyond
which an Inspection cannot be carriedout. We therefore request that the project be inspected
and action be taken to bringit into compliance with World Bank policies. We would also
like to suggest that the World Bank:
    *   Publicly acknowledge the damage that the Forest ConcessionManagement and
        Control Project stands to cause to the interests of forest-dependent communities in
        Cambodia;
        Publicly refute the FCMCPP's endorsement of the six logging companies;
    *   Write off the debt that Cambodia'scitizens have incurred through the Learning and
        InnovationLoan that supports the FCMCPP;
        Undertake a wide-ranging review of World Bank interventions concerning forestry
        and other extractive industriesto i)ensure that these projects have not breached the
        same operational policies standards as the FCMCPP; ii)ensure that they are not
        serving to entrench and endorseorganizations that have a history of illegal activities;
    *   Include timber inthe Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) andhold
        Bank interventions inthe forestry sector to the same standards as those inoil, gas and
        miningsectors.

Insummary, our hopeis that anInspectionwould leadto bothrectifications inthe World
Bank's approach to the forest sector inCambodia andpotentially to similar WorldBank
projects elsewhereinthe world. We hope that the World Bank will welcome the opportunity
to reflect on lessonslearned from this experience and will continue to value their relationship
with NGOs inCambodia, who consider the World Bank to be an important andrespected
player inCambodia's development.

Sincerely,




 Copy: World Bank office in PhnomPenh
        MemberNGOsof the NGOForum

' I




                                            Kingdom of Cambodia

                                             Nation Religion King

                      ChendarWe   are villagers living in the concession areas of
                                Plywood,Samraong Wood, Everbright,and Pheapimex

                                             Respectfullyaddress

                                 The Inspection Panel of the World Bank.

       Beaardina: Requestfor inspectionof the activitiesof the Cambodia Forest Concession
                  Managementand Control Pilot Project.

                  According to the above subject, we are ail villagers livinginthe Chendar Plywood,
                   samraong Wood, Everbright,and Pheapimex concession areas,who have all been
                  impactedby these four ccm"ies. We are worried that these companieswill re-start
                  their activitiesand impact further on us, and we are unhappywith the World Bank's
                  support for these companies.

                   Inthe past, these companies have impactedon our communities and on us personally
                   also, as follows:
                   .    Chendar Plywood has cut thousandsof resintrees belongingto villagersin Prame
                        and Mlu Prey 1 Communes that have provideda source of livelihoodfor many
                        years. Other non-timberforest productsthat villagers have collected to sell have
                        also been lost. Soldiers protectingthe company have threatened villagers not to
                        go intothe concession area to tap resin. One company worker eloped with the
                        daughter of villagers.
                   *    SamraongWood has cut hundreds of resintrees belongingto villagers inAnlong
                       Veng Commune. Company soldiers have forbidden villagers from going into the
                        forest to collect nontimber forest productsthat villagers collect to make a living.
                   ,    Pheapimex has cut thousands of resintrees belonging to villager in Talat
                        Commune and forbidden villagers from going intothe forest to collect non-timber
                        forest products.
                   .    Everbright has cut thousands of resin trees belonging to villagers. The group of
                        soldiers that protects the company has threatened villagerssaying that, "If you sell
                        your resin trees, we will cut them, if you don't sell them, we will still cut them.''
                        They also said that "I am not cutting your resin holes, Iamjust cuttingthe trees,
                        and I'm leavingthe holesfor you." When villagersgo into the company's logging
                        concession, company soldiers don't let them go in.

                   In November 2002, we went to ask for environmentaland social impactassessment
                   books of the logging concessionairesfrom the Department of Forestry. But the
                   Deputy Director of the Department, named Chea Sam-Mg, said that the books aren't
                   at the Department of Forestry,they are at the World Bank. We waited for two days at
                   the World Bank before getting the books, in order to take them to consult with people
                   inour villages.This made uswonder: Why is the World Bank involved in this? When
                   we looked at the books, we were startled becausethe reports by the logging
                   concessionaireswere not accurate, We saw that the companieswere going to cut
                   again without consideration for impactson the livingsituation of villagers.

                   On 17 March2004,we were interested again when the independentteam evaluating
                   forests in Cambodia said in a meeting at the Cambodiana Hotelthat the logging
                   concession system in Cambodia is finished.Then an expertfrom the World Bank
                   asked, "Why do you say it is finished?We haveworked hard to improvethe logging
                   concession system and it is good now, it is almost operatingagain."This made us
                   understandthat the World Bank itself is supportingthe loggingconcessionsystem.
                  After that we learnedthat the World Bank loaned moneyto the governmentto helpthe
                   loggingcompanies prepare managementplans so that they can log again.

                   If the logging concessions' management plans,which receivedtechnical assistance
                  from the World Bank, are acceptedby the Government, and the companies start up
                  their activities again, there will certainly be violationseven more severe than before on

villagers, especiallyon indigenous people,such as inthe areas of the Chendar
Plywood, Everbright,and Pheapimexconcessions. Ifthe companiesoperate again,
theywill certainly cut resin trees again; if they don't cut resintrees they won't have
any wood to cut.

Therefore, we ask the InspectionPanelof the World Bankto inspect all of the actions
of the World Bank Projectthat supportsthe logging concessionsystem in Cambodia.
Inthat, we would liketo give the   rightto NO0 Forumto representus in all of this work.

Becausewe are worriedabout our personalsecurity, we ask that the InspectionPanel
not releaseour names as the peoplewho have askedfor the inspection.

We all are hopefuland believefully that your InspectionPanelwill definitelyhelp us
who are Cambodianvillagers.

 Pleaseenjoy good healthand success at all times.

                                              global witness

February2005



Submission to the World BankInspectionPanel:


WORLD BANKFOREST CONCESSIONMANAGEMENT AND CONTROL
PILOT PROJECT INCAMBODIA



Preparedfor NGO Forumon Cambodia by GlobalWitness




                                                             1


Project Description
               . .       ..............................................................................................................      3
Glossary..............................................................................................................................       4

INTRODUCTION             .............................................................................................................. 5

SECTION I:
  1.1 Point of Departure.....................................................................................................
              PROJECT CONCEPTION                             ............................................................................    7
                                                                                                                                             7
  1.2 Cambodia's ConcessionSystem.............................................................................                               10
  1.3 The LoggingConcessionaires                     .................................................................................
                                                                                    ....................................................     11

  1.5 Embracing the System and the Operators...............................................................
  1.4 Adverse Impacts of Concessionaires'Activities                                                                                          14
                                                                                                                                             16

SECTION 2 . IMPLEMENTATION
                 PROJECT                                                   .............................................................     19
  2.1 Overview     .................................................................................................................         19
  2.2 Production of ConcessionManagementPlans                           ...............................................................
                                                                                ........................................................     19
  2.3 Disregarding Project Terms of Reference                                                                                                20
  2.4 Standards for Preparationofthe ManagementPlans                                       ..............................................    23
  2.5 Ignoring Evidenceof IllegalActivities by the Concessionaires
  2.6 Submission o f the ManagementPlans -"Deadlines are not written instone" .......25                       .............................
                                                                                                                                             29
  2.7 Disclosure      ...............................................................................................................        29
  2.8 Consultation       ............................................................................................................        31
  2.9 Forest Cover Survey              ...............................................................................................       33
  2.10 Declarationon ForestryRevenues Systems Management....................................                                                 34
  2.11 Reviewing the ManagementPlans
  2.12 The ModelPlans             ...................................................................................................
                                                               ........................................................................ 35
                                                                                                                                             43
  2.13 OldLog Transportation                 .........................................................................................       48
  2.14 Outcomes of the FCMCPP                     ....................................................................................       52
  2.15 The Without-Project Situation                     ..............................................................................      54

SECTION 3: WORLD BANK BREACHES OF OPERATING POLICIES                                                                      ...................
  3.1 OperationalPolicy OP 4.01 -Environmental Assessment.....................................                                               58
                                                                                                                                             58
  3.2 OperationalDirective OP 4.20 -IndigenousPeoples                                         ............................................   64
  3.3 OperationalPolicy OP 4.36 - Forests                         .....................................................................      68
  3.4 OperationalPolicy OP 4.04 -Natural Habitats                                  ......................................................    71
  3.5 OperationalPolicy OP 13.05 - Project Supervision...............................................                                        72
  3.6 BankProcedureBP 8.40 -TechnicalAssistance                                       ...................................................    73
  3.7 OperationalPolicy OP 4.11- Cultural Property                                   ....................................................    74

SECTION 4: PREVIOUS COMMUNICATION WITH THE WORLD BANK.............76

CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                             .............................................................     81

  Appendix I:    ConcessionaireProfiles                    ............................................................................      83




                                                                                                                                              2


  Project Description

  The Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project i s fundedby a World Bank
  IDA credit of US$4.82 millionmadeto the Royal Government of Cambodia initially
  commencing 20' October 2000 and originally due to end on 31December 2003. This
  was subsequently extended to an end date o f June 2005. The U S $4.82 million credit
  takes the form o f a Learningand InnovationLoan (LIL). The project i s situated inthe
  Government Forest Administration (FA), a semi-autonomous department o f the Ministry
  o f Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. The Forest Administrationwas formerly known
  as the Department o f Forestry and Wildlife (DFW) up until its internal restructuring in
  2003.'

  Project Development Objective:

  "The overallproject development objectives are to demonstrate the effectiveness of a
  comprehensive set of forest management and operational guidelines and control
  procedures inforest concession areas and to establish an effectiveforest crime
  monitoring andprevention capability.            ' j 2




  The Project's four main components (quotedfiom the FCMCPP Project Appraisal
  Document):


      0   A. ForestPlanning and Inventory Component. This component will support
          DFW (Forest Administration) inproviding guidance and exercising quality
          control over concessionairepreparation o f detailed long and short-term forest
          managementplans. The resulting plans will set harvesting prescriptions and
          define other conditions for further operations. This component will finance
          acquisition o f satellite imagery, aerial photography, conduct o f field inventories,
          training and technical assistance.

      0   B.ConcessionRegulation and Control Component. This component will
          strengthen the capacity o f the Forest Management office (FMO) o f the DFW
          (Forest Administration) to oversee concession operations and to ensure that
          operations are incompliance with plans and conditions established under the
          Forest Planning and Inventory Component. Itwill finance acquisition o f vehicles,
          equipment, training facilities and programs, and technical assistance.

      0   C. Forest Crime Monitoring & Prevention Component. This component will
          strengthenthe capacity o f the DFW's (Forest Administration's) Legal and
          Litigation Office (LLO) and the Ministryo f Environment(MoE) to systematically
          and regularly monitor illegal logging and to launch effective prevention activities.
          Itwill introduce systematic data collectionand analysis techniques, provide
          equipment and contractual services, training and technical assistance. The
          component will assist concessionaires, provincial forestry offices, nationalparks

'
  * Forest
  ' Forthe sake ofclarity, the institution is referredto as Forest Administration throughout this document.
          ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project Appraisal Document, dated 2 June 2000.


                                                                                                           3

        and protected area managers and affected communities with design and
        implementation o f timber theft prevention plans and will disseminate information
        on the Government's forest crime preventionprogram usingmedia, training
        programs and other mechanisms. An international NGO will function as an
        independent monitor to check on the accuracy o f Government's rep~rting.~

    0   D.Proiect Management and Institutional StrengtheningComponent. This
        component will establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) inthe DFW (Forest
        Administration). The PMU,which will be developed from the Secretariat o f the
        National Committee for Forest Policy, will provide overall coordination for the
        project, manage procurement and contracting, and be responsible for project
        monitoring and evaluation.




Glossary

A A C                     Annual Allowable Cut
ADB                       Asian Development Bank
CTIA                      Cambodia Timber IndustryAssociation
ESIA                      Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
FA                        Forest Administration
FCMCPP                    Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project
IFSR                      Independent Forest Sector Review
LIL                       Learning and InnovationLoan
MAFF                      MinistryofAgriculture, Forestry andFisheries
MEF                       MinistryofEconomy and Finance
RCAF                      Royal Cambodian Armed Forces
RGC                       Royal Government o f Cambodia
SAC                       Structural Adjustment Credit
SFMP                      Sustainable Forest Management Plan
WGNRM                     Working Group on Natural Resource Management




 Global Witness took on this role as independentmonitor from the end of 1999 (before the FCMCPP
began) to April 2003, whenthe Cambodian government announcedthat it hadterminatedthe organisation's
role. Global Witness' activitieswere not funded throughthe FCMCPP; however its replacement as
independentmonitor,the Swiss company SGS, is financedthroughthe Bank project.


                                                                                                  4

INTRODUCTION

InApril 2004, the outgoing World Banktask manager for the ForestConcession
Management and Control Pilot Project observed that the forest concession system
introduced by the Cambodian government inthe mid 1990s was "inadequate onpaper,
dysfunctional in reality  ".Despite the abundant evidence o f its adverse impacts on the
interests o f ordinary Cambodians, however, the World Bank has sought to strengthen and
perpetuate this same forest concession system and its operators.

The World Bank's Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project was
premisedon the validity ofthe existingsystem and its operators, when flaws inthe
system and persistent illegal activities by the concessionaires were already well
documented. As the project has progressed, evidence that the concession system and the
concessionaires are inimicalto the interests o f ordinary Cambodians has continued to
mount. Rather than changing course however, the Bank has, through its project,
continued to support the concession companies and underminedlaws, regulations and
professional standards designedto make them accountable to ordinary Cambodians. In
the process, the Bank has greatly increased the likelihoodthat six o f these companies will
retaintheir concessions for a further 25 years.

At the same time, the World Bank's intervention has done nothingto change the way the
concessionaires will operate inthe future. Over-riding evidence suggests once they re-
commence logging operations, the six companies whose management plans the FCMCPP
has approved will continue to inflict material harm on individual Cambodians and
interests o f the population as a whole. Indoing so, the companies' efforts to deflect
criticism and maintain impunitywill be strengthenedby the seal o f approval bestowed
upon them by the World Bank project.

Communities living in and around the forests are those most directly affected by the
concessionaires' operations. They are alarmed at how the Bank i s promoting the interests
o f companies that have abused their rights inthe past and are certain to continue doing
so. Their appeal for a correction to this approach is the basis for this inspection panel
claim.

Inits endorsement of six loggingcompanies, the FCMCPP has underminedthe Bank's
over-arching goals in Cambodia o f reducing poverty and strengthening governance. H o w
was this allowed to happen? The project's damaging outcome i s explained, in large
measure, by the World Bank's contravention o f a number o f its own operating policies,
duringbothproject preparation and implementation phases. The operational policies
breached include those concerning EnvironmentalAssessment, Indigenous Peoples,
Forests, Natural Habitats, Supervision and Cultural Property. It i s inconceivable that the
FCMCPP would have been designed or implemented as it has been, ifthe Bank had
adheredto these operational policies.

This document proceedsthrough four main sections. The first o fthese outlines the
World Bank's flawed conception o f the FCMCPP and project's inherent bias towards the



                                                                                           5

interests o f the concessionaires. Section 2 examines the project's implementation and
how the Bank allowed it to shield the companies from efforts to hold them accountable.
The third section examines those aspects o f the World Bank's planning and project
implementation that violate Bank operational policies. Section 4 summarises previous
attempts by NGOs and others to raise with the World Bank the concerns outlined inthis
report.

All three sections expandupon and support the central arguments ofthis paper:

        The World Bank, through its project, has consistently promoted the interests o f
        the concession systemand operators, despite the evidence that they have and will
        continue to inflict harm on forest-dependent communities.
        The Bank has, through its acts and omissions, underminedlaws, standards and
        other accountability mechanisms designedto protect the interests o f forest-
        dependent Cambodians.
        By allowing its project to endorse the strategic level management plans o f six
        companies, the Bank has significantly increased the likelihood that they will
        continue to maintain their logging concessions and go on inflicting material harm
        on local people.




                                                                                         6

SECTION I: PROJECT CONCEPTION


1.1PointofDeparture

`Project Development Objective: Demonstratedjeld implementation in concession
areas, of a comprehensive set of forest management and operational guidelines and
control procedures ' (Project Appraisal Document p.13)

The Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project's endorsement o f the
concession system stems from the point o f departure set out in its project objective.
World Bank staff took the view that the existing concession system was the most
appropriate management regime for Cambodia's forests and the project was designedto
demonstrate that it could be reformed.

The Bank's intentiono f proving that the existingconcession system can work i s further
articulated elsewhere inthe FCMCPP Project Appraisal Document and the Project
InformationDocument:


reformed policyframework. Ifsuccessful, these innovations will re-energize the
`the LIL serves to demonstratej e l d implementationapproaches supportive of the

currently dormant concession sub-sector ...         A


`the Project is specijkally designed to enhance the sustainability of forest concessions in
Cambodias

These project objectives are founded on the conclusions o f a World Bank 1999 vision
paper on forest sector management in Cambodia. The paper argues that

"Asustainably managed industrial concession system can be the center piecefor the
Cambodian Forestry Sector. While not addressingall these dimensions in equal detail,
the studies conductedby Government with the assistance of WorldBankfinancing
provide the essential basisfor moving toward theproposed vision"`

Moreover, World Bank staff responsible for designing and supervisingthe project speak
o f its conceptual framework interms o f a hypothesis: that the Bank's intervention can
overhaul the concession system and make it worke7


 World Bank, `Project Appraisal documenton aProposedLearning and Innovation Credit To the Kingdom
of Cambodiafor aForestConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project', June 2000, p.3.
'World   Bank, `Cambodia-Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project: Project Information
Document', May 1999.
  World Bank, `Background Note: Cambodia-A Vision for ForestSector Development', February 1999,
p.7.
  Bank staffexpressedsuch views during ameetingbetweenNGOs and World Bank project staff, 20th
April 2004; see also minutes ofmeetingbetweenWorld Bank FCMCPPtask manager andNGOs 24
September 2002 which quote the task manageras commentingthat "the WorldBank's operationalfocus is
to bring the concession system to whatever scale to make it work.''


                                                                                                  7

The significance o f the objectives, vision and hypothesis i s that they can only be realised
or proven if Cambodia's concession system continues. Ifthe concession system
disappears, the project is, on its own terms, a failure.

Fromthe outset the FCMCPP's success or failure has thus hinged closely on the fate o f
forest concession system; giving the Bank an unhealthily strong stake in its preservation.
A modest reduction inthe number o fconcessions would not initself invalidate the
Bank's hypothesis.8 However, termination o f all concessions would leave the project's
architects facing difficult questions as to their decision to invest $4.8 millionand 5 years
intheir restructuring.

A more serious flaw is the way that the Bank effectively linked successfulproject
outcomes to the continued tenure o f the incumbent concessionaires. Article 5.4 o f
Cambodia's Sub-Decree on Forest Concession Management, introduced inFebruary
2000, before the FCMCPP commenced, states that

"All revoked or transferredforest concessions shall bepreserved naturalforest zones
and the managedforest shall not be concededto any other company."

This meant that ifany logging companies hadtheir contracts terminated, their
concessions could not be reallocatedwithin the concession system. Ifthe Bank wanted to
demonstrate a functioning concession system and thereby realise its vision and project
objectives, it needed to ensure the continued tenure o f the incumbent concessionaires.
Accordingly, it weighted the FCMCPP heavily towards the companies' own interests, by
assisting them intheir production o f sustainable forest management plans (SFMPs) and
environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs), for example.

Following the logic o f its pro-concession agenda, the Bank perceived the development o f
alternative management regimes as a threat. This sentiment i s expressed inan internal
memo from the FCMCPP task manager to the Cambodia country director about proposals
to turn some o f the concessions into protected areas for conservation:

"This area is currently under concessionand thefinancial package offered to
Government (by conservationorganisations) could result in diflculties coordinating
activities andprojects, not to mention maintaining the coherenceof the concession
system reform program. '' (emphasis added)'


* World  Bank, `Background Note: Cambodia - A Vision for Forest Sector Development', February 1999,
p.6 advocatesa reduction inthe concessionsystem from approximately seven million hectaresto around
four million. Infact, according to the ADB-financed review of concessions, by April 2000, the area under
concessionhad beenreducedto 4.6 million hectares. Thus, by the time the FCMCPP commencedinlate
2000, the concessionsystemhad already contracted to a size close to that which the World Bank
consideredappropriate. This raises questions as to whether the Bank was genuinely committed to further
reductions inthe area under concession, as it has since claimed.
  InternalWorld Bank memo from FCMCPP Task Manager William Magrathto World Bank Country
Director IanPorter, February 2001,


                                                                                                       8

Notwithstandingthe Bank's misgivings, the Cambodian government has since designated
the area inquestion - Cambodia's central Cardamom Mountain range - as a permanent
protected forest. UNESCO is considering this same area as a possible World Heritage
site on account o f its highecological values.

Given the extent to which the existingconcession system and concessionaires were
already discredited before the project began, the World Bank's construction o f the
FCMCPP on such a set o f concepts and assumptions represented a serious error o f
judgment. It also suggested an approachto project preparation that owed more to the
Bank's confidence inits preconceptions than observance o f its operational policies.
Discussions with Bank staff indicate that pre-project preparation, interms o f gauging
environmental and social impacts inparticular, was cursory at best and did not meet
operational policy standards. This issue i s examined inmore detail in Section 3."

Setting the Bank's prior intent to promote the existing forest concession system as the
management regime for Cambodia's production forest i s important for three main
reasons:


      0  Ithighlightsthe flawed planningofthe FCMCPP andthe World Bank's refusalto
         acknowledge overwhelming evidence that preservation o f the existing concession
         system and operators would inflict material harm on forest-dependent
         Cambodians.
         It explains the subsequent behaviour ofthe boththe Bank andFCMCPP personnel
         towards the concessionaires, particularly their unwillingnessto take account o f
         companies' breaches o f laws, planning requirements and agreed deadlines.
                                                                       ''
      0  Thirdly, highlightingthis obvious bias towards the concession model has become
         necessary given recent denials by World Bank staff.              Criticism o f its approach
         has prompted Bank officials to claim that the FCMCPP i s as much about
         developing alternative management regimes such as community forestry as
         supporting the concession system. Project planning and implementation do not
         bear out this claim, neither does the vision paper from which the FCMCPP draws
         its inspiration.12



loMeetingbetweenWorld Bank staffmembersWilliam Magrath(FCMCPP Task Manager 2000-2004),
PeterJipp (FCMCPPTask Manager 2004-), Stephen Mink and StevenSchonberger; with Suwanna
GauntlettandDelphineVann Roeof Wildaid; Mike DavisandHannahThompson of GlobalWitness,
PhnomPenh, 20 April 2004.
l1MeetingbetweenStevenSchonberger,World Bank SpecialOperationsManagerandMarcus Hardtke
andMike Davisof GlobalWitness, 29 July 2004. StevenSchonbergerclaimedthat it was unfairto label
the FCMCPPas a projectdedicatedto the concessionsystem, arguingthat itwas as muchabout developing
alternativeforest management regimessuchas community forestry.
  World Bank, `BackgroundNote: Cambodia-A Vision for ForestSectorDevelopment', February 1999,
p.15 dismisses the ideaof communitymanagementofhighvalue forests: "Community Forestry: As noted,
perhaps 4 million ha of reasonably well stocked, highpotentialforests is availablefor commercial
production oriented management and some 3.3 million ha is currently devoted toprotection status. There
still remains approximately 3 million ha offorest and another 7 million ha of rural area in which
management of smallforest areas and scattered trees is needed. In addition to having thepotential of
poverty alleviation, communityforestry nee& to be recognized as a meansfor achieving sustainable


                                                                                                     9

Indeed, the prevailing bias towards the concession system was highlightedin a World
Bank internal `Quality EnhancementReview' o f the FCMCPP in2003, which
acknowledged that "The Bank has not beenfully prepared to discuss alternatives outside
the concession model

The World Bank decided to base its forestry project on the existingconcession system
and concessionaires inthe face o f abundant evidence that they were damaging the
interests o f Cambodia's citizens, particularly forest-dependent communities. The
FCMCPP began in 2000, by which time NGOs, journalists, other international donor
agencies and even the Bank itself, had documented the flaws inthe system and the track
records o f the operators over several years. The arguments against perpetuating the status
quo were very clear. To grasp the extent o f the flawed assumptions on which the Bank
founded the FCMCPP, requires a brief overview o f the concession system, the
concessionaires and their impacts.



1.2 Cambodia's Concession System

Labelling Cambodia's array o f forest concessions a system suggests a degree o f
forethought and planning which i s certainly not warranted. Inthe mid-l990s, the
Cambodian Government awarded between 30 and 40 timber concessions to a range o f
Cambodian and foreign-owned ~ompanies.'~             The contracts signed away atotal of 7
millionhectares on terms that greatly favoured the interests o f the concessionaires over
those o f Cambodia. Settinga trend in Cambodia's forest sector that has persisted ever
since, the process by which the contracts were awarded was secretive and suggestive o f
high-level government corruption. The Bank's own 2003 Quality EnhancementReview
o f the LILnotes that "over halfof these concessions had been established in I995 and
I996 under unclear criteria and among widespreadallegations of cronyism."15

To borrow from the terms o f referencethe FCMCPP later issuedto consultants working
on the project, `fforest concessions are seldomproperly surveyed and demarcated on the
ground".16 Indeed,as noted inan ADB-financed review published in 2000

 "the DFW (Forest Administration) has never been consultedprior to selection of
concession areas. Apparently, allocations were made according to the requests of the
concessionaires. pll



managementfor the large bulk offorest resources that are not suited to commercial production and which
will be beyond the direct management capacity of Government."
l3World Bank, `Quality EnhancementReview - Cambodia Forestry', 2003.
l4Asian Development Bank SustainableForest Management Project, `Cambodian Forest Concession
Review Report', April 2000 identifies 33 concessions.
IsWorld Bank, `Quality EnhancementReview - Cambodia Forestry', 2003.
l6Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project, `Consulting Services on Forest Management
Planning and Training Terms of Reference'.


                                                                                                    10

Moreover, as acknowledged inthe FCMCPP planning documents, most ifnot all
contained large areas o f non-operable forest, non-forest areas, entire communities and
agricultural land.'   *
Regarding the resource itself, the World Bank made the assumption that the existing
concessions constituted a basis for sustainable use o f Cambodia's forests. It adopted this
position despite its own admission that "little or nothing is known about the dynamics of
stand structure, species composition, regenerationandgrowth in Cambodianforests
following logging.            This acknowledgementechoedthe ADB concession review's own
conclusion that "The currentforest management system has no scientijic basis, and does
not ensure sustainedyield and sustainableforest management.'"`

Inits projectplanning, the World Bank tacitly acknowledged these very fundamental
problems, yet made no attempt to challenge them. It conducted no thorough assessment
o f the values and possible altemative uses o f Cambodia's forests (despite being one o f the
few institutions with the capacity to do so). Neither did it require any reworking o f the
existing concession boundaries as a pre-condition for, or even a component of, its efforts
to reform the concession system.



 1.3 The LoggingConcessionaires

 Cambodia's logging concessionaires encompass a spectrum o f operators. These range
from fly-by-night foreign investors looking to exploit weak govemance and reap a quick
profit, through to Cambodian operators whose approach to business is more mafia than
 corporate.

Well before the Bank commenced its project in 2000, investigations into these
 companies' activities, carried out over several years, showed that most, ifnot all had


   Asian Development Bank Sustainable Forest Management Project, `Cambodian Forest Concession
Review Report', April 2000, p.15, footnote 22.
   Project Appraisal Document on a ProposedLearning and Innovation Credit For aForest Concession
Management and Control Pilot Project p.9.
   Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project, `Consulting Services on Forest Management
Planning and Training Terms o f Reference'.
   Asian Development Bank Sustainable Forest Management Project, `Cambodian Forest Concession
Review Report', April 2000 p.32.
 The ADB report also cautioned that given the damage already caused by illegal logging, the
 concessionairesmight find it intheir own intereststo assess the resource intheir concessionsbefore
 investing time and money in production o f managementplans: `Ylso in the meantime, the concessionaires
should start identiJLing resources (national andor international) for thepreparation of theforest
 managementplans. Thepreparation of forest maps, design and implementation of forest inventories,
 carrying out ESIAs and dataprocessing andfinally preparation of forest managementplans would be an
 expensive operation. I t is therefore advisablefor the companies holding critical concessions to carry out a
 reconnaissance level assessment of the remaining resourcesfirst, before committing larger resources. ",
 ibid. p.39.



                                                                                                          11

seriously violated Cambodia's laws.21 All the concessionaires, moreover, demonstrated
either a lack o f capacity for, or interest in, sustainable forest management.22

Through the late 1990sand up until 2002, the concession companies were a driving force
inthe illegal loggingthat degraded what the WorldBanktermed "Cambodia's most
developmentally important natural resource

FCMCPP documents acknowledge, moreover, that in 1997, "about 93% of the industrial
wood volume was harvested illegally ".24 Apologists for the concession system ascribe
much o f the so-called `anarchic logging' o f the late 1990s to factions o f the Royal
Cambodian Armed Forces (RCAF). While RCAF's involvement i s not in dispute, it i s
important to note that many o f the concessionaires the World Bank project has assisted
were also heavily involved in illegal logging over this period and subsequently. Indeed,
inmany casesthe `anarchic' RCAF factions were loggingto order for the
 concessionaire^.^^

An ADB-commissionedsurvey o fthe concession system and concessionairescarried out
from 1999-2000compiled data on the companies' contractual breaches. The review's
findings, which represent a conservative estimate, are summarised intable 1below.
Briefing notes on the six companies whose concession management plans the Bank's
project has approved, are provided inAnnex I.




"SeeforexamplereportsproducedbyGlobalWitness,www.globalwitness.orp;AsianDevelopmentBank
''SustainableForestManagementProject,Internationaland
                                      `CambodianForest ConcessionReview Report', April 2000.
  Only two of the concessionaires, GAT                  Samling, had any prior experience of forest
management. These firms may have hadthe technical capacity to manageforest sustainably, howevertheir
actionsquickly demonstratedalack of interest indoing so inCambodia.
23World Bank, `StructuralAdjustment Credit to Cambodia', 2000.
24Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project, `Consulting Services onForestManagement
Planningand Training Terms ofReference'.
25A summary ofthe role playedby concessionaires in illegal logging during the mid to late 1990scan be
found in Global Witness, `The Untouchables:Forest Crimesandthe Concessionaires-Can Cambodia
Afford to Keep Them?', December 1999.


                                                                                                    12

    Table 1.Legal and contractual breaches by the concessioncompaniesz6




Samling                             *       *
Supenvood        I    I     I     I +     I
Timas            I *  I *   I *   I *     I
Resources
TPP              I *  I *   I *   I *     I *
                 I    I     I      I      I
Voot Tee         I *  I *   I *    I *    I *
Peanich
~ o u r y ~ a c oI    I     I      I      I

     aNo proof supplied to support their claims o f payment
     bNo payment inthe 2nd or 3rd years
     'No payment in 1996or 1997
       No payment before 31stDecember 1999
     e No payment inthe 2nd year
     f No payment in2nd, 3rdor 4th years
     gNo payment last 4 years
     hNo payment in last 2 years
     iConcessionairepermitsThaicompaniestologintheirconcession
     j Logging carriedout by unknown(illegal andorganised)parties
     k N o existing managementplan at all




     26 Asian Development Bank SustainableForest Management Project, 'Cambodian Forest Concession
     Review Report', April 2000.


                                                                                                  13

1.4 AdverseImpacts of Concessionaires' Activities

The range o f adverse impacts that concessionaires have on forest dependent communities
and the country as a whole have been documented in detail over several years.


Illegal logging of resin trees

Resin tapped from various species o f dipterocarp tree i s an economically valuable
commodity both within Cambodia and abroad. An estimated 100,000 Cambodians derive
a portion o f their income from resin c ~ l l e c t i o n .This
                                                           ~ ~ far exceeds the numbers o f people
concessionaires can claim to be employing.28 Resin tapping i s a sustainable activity that
causes little or no harm to the trees that are tapped.29 As such it is regarded as
complementary to forest conservation.

The activities o f the logging concessionaires pose a direct threat to resin tappers'
 livelihood^.^^    The trees that rural Cambodians tap for resin, are those same commercial
grade species that the timber companies target for use inproduction o f plywood and
veneer. Records o f concessionaires' harvests duringthe last cutting season (2000-200 1)
before the government imposed a moratorium on further logging clearly illustrate this.
One concession company claimed that 80% o f its harvest comprised the principalresin-
producingtree specie^.^' The harvesting records o f another state that 89% o f the trees it
cut were o f this type.32

UnderArticle 17 (g) the 1988 Decree on Forest Practice Rules, it is illegal to cut trees
that people have tapped for resin. This law has since been superseded by the 2002
Forestry Law, Article 29 o f which extends this protection to "trees of species thatpeople
tupfor resin    ".   The concessioncompanies do not acknowledge the legal prohibitions on
cutting resin trees and have violated them with impunity.33

''Prom   Tola & Bruce McKenney, `Trading Forest Products inCambodia: Challenges, Threats and
Opportunities for Resin', Cambodia Development ResourceInstitute, 2003; p.15; for summary o f figures
on income from resin-tapping in three provinces, see Bruce McKenney, Yim Chea, Prom Tola and Tom
Evans, `Focusing on Cambodia's High Value Forests: Livelihoods and Management', Cambodian
Development ResourceInstitute and Wildlife Conservation Society; November 2004, p.59.
28 The 2004 Cambodia IndependentForest Sector Review writes that "At the zenith ofthe working ofthe
concession and woodprocessing system there were estimatedto be about 37,000 workersemployed in the
forest sector ",CambodiaIndependentForest SectorReview, `TheForest Sector in Cambodia', Part I,    p.
63.
29 Tom Evans, Hout Piseth, PhetPhaktra and Hang Mary, `A Study o f Resin-tapping and livelihoods in
southem Mondulkiri, Cambodia, with implications for conservation and forest management', Wildlife
Conservation Society, 2003, pep.69-70.
30 Prom Tola & Bruce McKenney, `Trading Forest Products in Cambodia: Challenges, Threats and
Opportunities for Resin', Cambodia Development ResourceInstitute, 2003, chapter 3.
31 Global Witness, `Deforestation Without Limits', July 2002, p. 17
32 Log harvesting books compiled for Pheapimex-Fuchan Stung Treng / Thalabariwat concession, 2001.
33 See for example Global Witness letter to Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen, 9 January 2002, regarding
illegal cutting of resin trees by Chemdar Plywood, GAT Intemational, Pheapimex-Fuchan, Colexim
Enterprise and SamraongWood forest concessionaires.


                                                                                                     14

Itis worth emphasising, moreover, that resin isjust one ofthe numerous forest products
which rural Cambodians depend upon for food, medicine and fuel. Access to others i s
also jeopardised by logging operations carried out by concessionaires -both because o f
damage as a result o f industrial logging and because many concessionaires attempt to
prevent local people from accessing the forest.


Acts of violence and intimidation against local inhabitants

Employees of the concessionaires have violated the rights o f people living inside or
adjacent to forest concessions on any number o f occasions. Abuses committed by
company staff have included denial o f access to forest areas, intimidation, rape, and, in at
least one case, murder. In 1997, staff o f the Colexim Enterprise logging company killed
a local resin tapper who remonstrated with the concessionaire over its illegal cutting of
people's resin trees. Colexim i s one o f the companies whose 25 year management plan
the FCMCPP has recommendedthat the government approve. Further examples of
human rights abuses suffered by local inhabitants are provided by the letters which form
the basis for this submissionto the Inspection Panel.


Environmental Impacts

The environmental impacts o fthe concessionoperations are felt both locally and
nationally. At a local level these typically include obstruction o f streams that form
people's water supply as a result o f poor road and bridge construction, as well as the
damage caused to existing roads by logging trucks and heavy machinery.34

At a national level, the overall impacts ofthe concessionaires' logging are also apparent.
Agriculture and fisheries are the Cambodian population's main sources o f food. Both are
sustained through natural systems o f water management within which the forests play an
important role. UNagencies cited deforestation as a cause o f the severe floods in 2000
that cost Cambodia an estimated $156 milli~n.~'

The forest degradation caused by the industrial logging, has likewise impacted on
Cambodia's biodiversity. The extent and nature o f these impacts has not received a full
analysis, however it is likely that they have been severe.36




34See for example reference to problems causedby bridge construction in Global Witness, `The
Untouchables:Forest Crimes and the Concessionaires-Can Cambodia Afford to Keep Them?', December
1999p.14; referenceto problemsassociatedwith roadbuilding inAsian DevelopmentBank Sustainable
ForestManagementProject, `CambodianForestConcessionReview Report', April 2000, p.29.
35Cited inGlobalWitness, `Deforestationwithout Limits' July 2002, p.3.
36IndependentForest Sector Review, `The ForestSector inCambodia', PartI, 64.
                                                                           p.


                                                                                               15

Loss of revenues to the state

Floods in 2000, which the UNlinkedto deforestation, are estimated to have cost
Cambodia $156 million. By contrast, the entire forest sector generated only $92 million
for the national treasury between 1994 and 2000.37

This $92 million is a fraction o fthe royalties due on the timber cut by concessionaires
and others duringthis period.38 Proponents o f the concession system argue that the value
o f concessions lies intheir reliable delivery o f revenues to the state. This argument i s not
supported by the Cambodian experience, where the concession system has
comprehensively failed to deliver, even inthis respect. Inthe meantime, the
concessionaireshave played a major role in liquidating one o f the country's few natural
resources o f value. Interms o f destruction o f the resource and the opportunity cost, the
companies' collective impact has been Cambodia's further impoverishment.



1.5 Embracingthe System and the Operators

The World Bank was fully aware o f the track records o f the concessionaires and the
adverse impacts they were having before it initiatedthe FCMCPP. The evidence that the
existingconcession system and its operators were underminingefforts to reduce poverty
and strengthen governance inCambodia was compelling and readily available. Indeed,
just months before the FCMCPP got underway, an ADB-commissionedreview of the
concession system concluded that it constituted a "total systemfailure

Notwithstandingthe conclusions o f the ADB review, the World Bank proceeded with the
development o f a project premisedon the validity o f the same failed system and
operators. It made no attempt to challenge such fundamental flaws as the location and
boundaries o f the concessions, nor did it question the legitimacy o f the ~ompanies.~'If
the Bank wished to prove that some kindo f concession system could work inCambodia,
itwas dealing itselfthe weakestpossible hand before its project even commenced.




37Global Witness, `Deforestation without limits', July 2002, p.3.
38Asian Development Bank SustainableForest Management Project, `Cambodian Forest Concession
Review Report', April 2000, p.3 notesthat for the years 1996-98 alone, "total logproduction in Cambodia,
including illicitfelling, was between 4 to 8 million cubic metres, which, assumingthat the annual allowable
cut (AAC) calculations apply to the nation'sforests as a whole, under the current management system
wouldcorrespond to between 8 to 16years AAC"; for details of the role o f the concession companies in
this, see Global Witness, `The Untouchables: Forest Crimes andthe Concessionaires-Can Cambodia
Afford to Keep Them?', December 1999.
39Asian Development Bank Sustainable Forest Management Project, `Cambodian Forest Concession
Review Report', April 2000, p.32.
40
that "the decision of the Bank to respect (concessionaires 7 contracts was very unpopular with the Donor
  World Bank, `Quality EnhancementReview -Cambodia Forestry', 2003; alludes to this in its comment

and NGO communi&, and contributed to widespreadsuspicion that the Bank would not take on vested
interests.I'




                                                                                                        16

The World Bank's justifications for the course it took are both flimsy and contradictory.
Concerning concessions' problematic location and boundaries, Bank staff have argued
that with the concessions already allocated, the Bank was not ina position to demand any
revisions. The notion that the Bank lacked the bargaining power to effect any kind o f
change here i s dubious, although admittedly hard to prove either way.

Regarding its decision to support the incumbent concessionaires, the World Bank's
arguments are more convoluted. Bank staff claim that the Government could not
unilaterally cancel any o f the concessionaires' contracts without being subject to lawsuits
by the companies.41 Inmakingthese assertions, the Bank invariably refers to a legal
analysis that it commissioned inthe late 1990s. The Bank has consistently declined to
publishthe lawyers' assessment, making its professedrationale for opposing cancellation
hard to verify.

Ineither event, the Bank's positionis unconvincing for two mainreasons. One is the
substantial body o f evidence already assembled concerning the companies' contractual
breaches and illegal activities. This initselfprovided strong grounds for terminating
most ifnot all the concession contracts. The other i s the Cambodian government's
willingness, since before the start o f the FCMCPP and subsequently, to cancel the
investment agreements of a large number o f concessionaires. Not one o f these
cancellations has encountered a legal challenge from the companies concerned.

Somewhat paradoxically, the Bank has consistently tried to take the credit for the
government's termination of concession contracts, indeed as recently as December 2004;
the World Bank Cambodia Country Director wrote ina letter to Global Witness that

 "The WorldBank (has)focused on support to reforms of theforest concession system...
Through aprocess of deliberative case-by-case review the number of concessions has
been reducedfiom forty in August 2000, to six concessions covering 1.1million
hectares. 'r42

The claim that there are now only six concessions left i s almost certainly inaccurate - the
government has announced the cancellation o f only two o f the 18 that remained at the
start o f 2003.43 Onthe question o f how the number was reduced, the implied role o f the
Bank and the deliberative quality o f the process are not substantiatedby comments made
by the FCMCPP Task Manager inan internal memo addressed to the same Country
Director in2001:

 "Governmenthas unilaterally cancelled about I O concession contracts without
consultationwith the Bankfor reasons that have generally not been disclosed and which
seem to include inadequacy of a resource capable of supporting commercial


41This line of argument is summarisedin World Bank, `Quality EnhancementReview - Cambodia
Forestry', 2003.
42Letter from World Bank Country Director IanPorter to Global Witness, 20 December 2004.
43These concessionswere controlled by 14 different companies, three o fwhich controlled two or more
concessionseach.


                                                                                                   17

operations. Thesehave not resulted in any ongoing dispute or claims against
              ..
Government."44

There is infact no evidence that the Bank has had a role inconcession cancellations, with
two possible exception^.^^ The real grounds for termination have been, inmost cases,
because the company had no more timber in its concession, was bankrupt or was
associated with opponents o f the government. The Bank continues to advance conflicting
arguments on the issue, however. On the one hand, Bank staff advise the government
against termination o f concessions because o f the supposed legal risk. On the other, as
the letter from IanPorter to Global Witness shows, the Bank expects to be congratulated
when the Government ignores its advice and terminates concessions anyway.46

As one o f Cambodia's most important donors, the World Bank has substantial political
leverage over the Cambodian government, which it could have usedto demand pre-
conditions for its assistance inreformingthe forest sector. More importantly, the Bank
was inno way compelled to put its name to Cambodia's forest concession system. Ifit
genuinely had no scope to demand pre-conditions for its engagement, then it should have
declined to lend its endorsement to an un-reformable system and un-reformable
operators.

Instead, it chose to endorse the failed system and rogue concessionaires as the basis for
future forest management inCambodia. That this would increase the risks o f further
material harm to forest-dependent communities was clear. As is argued in Section 3, the
Bank conceived the FCMCPP as it did only by disregarding a range o f operational
policies that, if observed, would surely have prevented the project being initiatedinthe
first place.




44Internal World Bank memo from FCMCPPTask ManagerWilliam Magrath to World Bank Country
Director IanPorter, February2001.
45The findings ofthe FCMCPPmay have beeninstrumentalinthe government's cancellationofthe
Kingwood and MiengLy Heng logging concessions,which were terminatedin line with the project's own
conclusions in 2003. However, even here it shouldbe notedthat boththese were concessions that were
practically exhaustedcommercially.
46For similar claimssee e.g. letter from World Bank Vice PresidentJemal-ud-dinKassumto NGOForum,
17December 2003.


                                                                                                  18

SECTION 2 -PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION


2.1 Overview

The case against the concession system and its operators, clear before the FCMCPP
began, only strengthened once the project implantation phase commenced. From an early
stage, the World Bank struggledto justify the project's underlying assumptions, as more
evidence o f concessionaires' illegal activities emerged.

Rather than correct the FCMCPP's approach, however, the Bank allowed or perhaps even
encouraged it to take an indulgentview o f forest crimes by the concessionaires. Through
the project, the Bank worked to ensure that some companies at least cleared the strategic
(25 year) level concessionplanningprocess the FCMCPP was supervising. They
achieved this by

    0   usingloanmoney to helpthe logging companies make more presentable
        management plans
    0   turninga blindeye to illegal activities by those companies that the project was
        assisting
    0   lowering the standards o f concessionplanningwith which companies had to
        comply
    0   helpingto undermineaccountability mechanisms such as public disclosure and
        consultation.

By June 2004, the World Bank's project had recommendedthat the Cambodian
government approve the logging plans o f six o f the companies. This recommendation is
based on the FCMCPP's review o f management plans that the companies wrote with
technical assistance from the project.


2.2 Productionof ConcessionManagementPlans

Shortly before the FCMCPP commenced, the Cambodian government announced that the
logging concessionaires would all be required to produce Sustainable Forest Management
Plans (SFMPs) and Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) to
international standards as a condition for continued operation. This measure followed
the recommendations o f the ADB-sponsored forest concession review completed inApril
2000:

 "Some of the concessionaires may not agree toprepare a new management plan and/or
renegotiate a new contract. However, no inadequacy in the agreements or proven
violations shouldprevent the Governmentfiom taking measures toprotect the nation 's
resources. Theforest estate remains a vital resource and the government retains its
responsibility to bring about its effective management. Since the mainpurpose of the
RGCS entrusting the management of its renewable resources to concessionaires is to



                                                                                        19

attain sustainable economic growth based on sustainable resource management we
recommend that the RGC should insist on obtaining assurances that the resources will be
put under sustainable management, and that these assurances be monitorable.
Therefore, if any concessionaire declines toprovide such monitorable assurances as
would be requiredfor a new managementplan and/or contract, it should not be
considered as apartner of the Governmentfor resource management and the contract
should be terminated.      'I4'




Common sense, not to mention protection o f the public interest, would suggest that
companies unable or unwilling to comply with this requirement by themselves should not
be given custody o f what the World Bank has described as "Cambodia's most
developmentally important resource                 The World Bank took a different view, however
and decided to offer loan-funded technical assistance through the FCMCPP to aid the
companies inpreparing their SFMPs and ESIAs. As a use o f loan money which
Cambodians will have to repay, this element o f the project i s highly questionable,
particularly giventhe concessionaires' documented theft o f valuable state assets.

This aspect ofthe Bank's intervention hadtwo immediate implications. One was to
enhance greatly the companies' chances o f clearing the planningphase and retaining
tenure o f their concessions for a further quarter o f a century. The other was to reduce the
planning process from a meaningful test o f companies' suitability, to a window-dressing
exercise inwhich the concessionaires' technical deficiencies and cynicism would be
masked courtesy o f loan-backedtechnical as~istance.~~The Bank's decision to assist the
companies hadthe effect o f loweringthe bar intheir favour. Itrobbed Cambodia o f a
crucial opportunity to measure the concessionaires' commitment and capacity and to
show the door to operators that had already damaged its forests and abused the rights o f
its inhabitants.



2.3 Disregarding Project Terms of Reference

Intheory at least, this technical assistance was not to beprovidedto companies
indiscriminately. Terms o f Reference issued to the consultants hired to implement the




47Asian Development Bank SustainableForest Management Project, `Cambodian Forest Concession
Review Report', April 2000, p. ix.
48World Bank, `Structural Adjustment Credit to Cambodia', 2000.
49 J. Blakeney, Kay Panzer, Wemer Schindele, `Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project
-FinalReportoftheMid-TermReviewMission', February-March2003,p.15:Accordingtothereview
team, this componento f the FCMCPP experienced delays, meaning that FCMCPP may have played a
smaller part inpreparation o f concessionaires' first draft plans than envisaged inthe original project design.
There can be little doubt that the project made up for lost time through its provision o f advice and
assistance to the companies on the redraftingo f these documentsover the next year and a half, however.



                                                                                                            20

planning components o f the FCMCPP included various criteria for assisting companies in
their preparation o f SFMPs and ESIAs, includingthe f~llowing:~'

"concessionaire's operable area is suflcient for management:                "



This criterion alone should have excluded all the companies. As the ADB review o f
concessions concludedjust months before the FCMCPP began:

"Of the concessions where the consultantcould obtain suflcient information to assess
the number of harvestable coupes, 40% are estimated to havefewer thanJive years le$,
50% have between 5 and 10years le$, and 10%have between 10and 15years le$. Of
thefour companies that have never harvested their concessions, none have more than 10
years of viable annual coupes remaining.           'j5'




Inother words, none ofthe concessionaires hadforest sufficient for a 25 year cutting
cycle as required by their contracts.

"minimum of illegal activities"

With regard to this second requirement, the ADB review is again instructive. It
concluded that all the companies had breachedeither their contractual obligations or
Cambodian law or both. Global Witness meanwhile, had been exposing the companies'
illegal activities over a period several years.52 Published evidence o f significant levels o f
illegal activity by companies such as Colexim Enterprise, Everbright CIG Wood,
Pheapimex-Fuchan, Samling and others was readily available to the World Bank and its
project staff. Despite this, the World Bank allowed or perhaps even instructed the
FCMCPPto provide advice and other forms o f assistance to all 13 o f the companies that
embarked on the production o f managementplans.

This highlightsone of the main flaws inthe World Bank's supervision o f its project -the
willingnessto allow loan money to be usedto support concessionairesthat have a well-
documented history o f illegal activities. This approach sits somewhat at odds with the
Bank's stated goal o f poverty reduction.

"company hasprofessional forestry staff ea able ofparticipating in, and beneJitingfiom,
theforest management planning process;                   P
                                                    j J 5




   World BankForestConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project, `Terms of Reference: Consulting
Services-Forest ManagementPlanningand Training'.
S IAsian DevelopmentBank SustainableForestManagementProject, `CambodianForestConcession
ReviewReport', April 2000, p. vii.
'*Asummary    of illegal activities by concessionairesup to 2000, the year that the FCMCPPcommenced,
can be found in Global Witness, `The Untouchables: Forest Crimesandthe Concessionaires-Can
CambodiaAfford to Keep Them?', December 1999.
53 World BankForestConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project, `Consulting Services on Forest
Management Planningand Training Terms ofReference'.


                                                                                                    21

On the question o f companies' employment o f professional staff, the ADB Review found
that

 "All except two of the concessionaires do not employprofessional foresters toplan and
supervise logging activities and more sign@cantly, no measuresare taken to monitor the
health of the resource and adapt logging activities or take corrective silvicultural
measures accordingly ... Thefield staff of most of the concessionaires are simply logging
supervisors, whose sole interest is the volume of logs removed and sent to the mills. ,954

meanwhile

 "The Department of Forestry and Wildlife staff are actively preparing concession
managementplans, carrying out annual coupe inventories and receiving directpayments
for their servicesfiom the concessionaires        ... The current system is a clear case of
conflict of interest.  j 1 j 5




Despite this unequivocal and timely conclusion (published immediately before
commencement o f the FCMCPP), the Bank project ignored these findings and its own
criteria for assisting the companies. Indeed,the FCMCPP has persistently refused to
recognise the problem o f concessionaires sub-contracting all technical forestry work to
Forest Administration staff. This practice i s symptomatic o f two serious problems
associated with the concession system in Cambodia. Firstly, concessionaires' reliance on
government officials to undertake even the most mundane technical tasks on their behalf
 i s evidence enough o f their unsuitability as managers o f the country's forests. Secondly,
the companies' employment o f the same officials responsible for regulating their
activities sets up a fundamental conflict o f interests; one that gives Forest Administration
 staff a stake inthe continued tenure o f the concessionaires. The Bank should have
prevented its project from assisting companies that had `captured' the officials
responsible for regulating their activities. Conversely, it has permittedan employee o f
 one o f Colexim Enterprise's main shareholders to work as Director o f the FCMCPP
 Project Management Unit.56

 Assumingthat the Bank was adhering to its operational policieson procurement o f
 services and recruitment o f consultants, it would have been fully aware o f the content o f
the FMCPP consultants' terms o f referencess7Its failure to intervene when these TOR


 54 Asian DevelopmentBank SustainableForestManagementProject, `CambodianForestConcession
 ReviewReport', April 2000, p.30.
 55 AsianDevelopmentBank SustainableForest ManagementProject, `CambodianForestConcession
 ReviewReport', April 2000, p. vii.
 56 Hang Sun Tra, who describes himself as an assistantto Colexim Enterpriseshareholder So Sovann. See

 Mr WilliamMagrath who introduced me during the workshop and trade show ... my name is Hang Sun Tra,
 for example e-mailfrom Hang Sun Tra to ScanComcompany 14April 2002: "Iheardyour name through

 assistant to Mr So Sovann,shareholder of the Colexim concession company." This conflict of interestshas
 beenpointedout to World Bank staff on anumber of occasions.
 57 In particularthe World Bank OperationalPolicy OP 11.OO on Procurement andthe World Bank
 Consultant Guidelines. The Bank states its commitmentto observingboth sets of standards in the Forest
 ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot ProjectAppraisalDocument,2 June 2000, p.21.


                                                                                                     22

were so seriously breachedagain raises questions about the quality o f the project's
supervision.



2.4 Standardsfor Preparationof the ManagementPlans

The regulatory requirements for preparation o f forest management plans were largely
complete before the FCMCPP began.58 However the concessionaires, who had an
obvious interest in lowering these standards, took it upon themselves to devise their own
framework for environmental and social impact assessment. This problem was
highlighted inJuly 2001 by a World Bank staff consultant's report on terms o f reference
for ESIA prepared by the Cambodian Timber IndustryA~sociation.~'

InOctober 2001, the World Bank Cambodia Country Director sent the staff consultant's
paper to the Cambodian government, describing it as "a notepreparedfor the World
Bank".60 While not presentingit as the World Bank's official position, the Country
Director's letter implied that the views expressed inthe report were those o f the Bank.

The staff consultant's damning verdict on the CTIA's ESIA terms o f reference i s
captured inthe report's opening sentence:

 "this document is sofundamentally flawed that it is unlikely to achieve the desiredresults
for either the timber industry or government.

The paper went on to detail the deficiencies. Inthe light o f subsequent approaches taken
by the FCMCPP (discussed inmore detail insubsequent sections) two o f its comments
deserve particular attention:

 1.      "Theproposal to use Forest ResearchInstitute (FM)staff to assist in
environment and social assessment work is inappropriate unless and until the institute is
establishedas an entity entirely independent and separatefiom DFW (Forest
Administration);    "



The Forest Research Institute i s situated within the Forest Administration and staffed by
FApersonnel. The staffconsultant's identificationo fthe obvious conflict o f interest in


58 A summary ofthe laws, regulationsandguidelinescoveringconcessionplanningcan be found in GFA
Terra Systems: `Results ofthe IndependentReviewof Strategic ForestManagementPlans preparedby
ConcessionCompaniesoperatinginCambodia', August 2004 p.p. 22-27.
59An earlier critique ofthe same terms ofreference for ESIA was producedby NGO Forumon Cambodia
inApril 2001.
60Letter from Ian Porter, World Bank Country Director, Cambodia, to CambodianMinister ofFinance,
Minister of Agriculture Forestryand FisheriesandMinister ofEnvironment,4 October2001.
"JohnH.Dick,StaffConsultanttoTheWorldBank,`CommentsontheEnvironmentalandSocialImpact
Assessment Terms ofReferenceand Workplan for The PreahVihear Concessionof Cambodia Cherndar
Plywood, as preparedby the CambodianTimber Industry Association, April 2001', World Bank, July
2001.


                                                                                                23

FRI staffpreparing concessionaires' ESIAs echoes the conclusions o f the 2000 ADB-
financed concession review.

2.       "The mechanismsfor community consultation are much too vagueand the
proposal that `communityparticipation shall be at the Compartment @e yearly) and
Annual Plan levels'is entirely inappropriate sincepublic participation will be essential
to strategic-level concessionzoning.''

Inthe event, the StaffConsultant's comments were ignoredbythe Cambodian
government and not followed up by the World Bank. An examination o f the ESIAs that
concessionaires subsequently produced, including those the FCMCPP later endorsed,
shows that they are based on the CTIA's `tfundamentallyflawed" terms o f reference.62

The World Bank intended that assistance to concessionaires preparing SFMPs and ESIAs
would be a main focus o f the FCMCPP. This raises questions as to why the Bank did not
make more effort to ensure that the companies observed the appropriate guidelines.
WhenNGOs raisedthis issue at a meeting inDecember 2003, the projecttask manager
claimed that he could not remember having seen the staff consultant's report.63 Asked
again in April 2004, he said that he would need more time to look at the document before
~ o m m e n t i n g . ~ ~

The concessionaires' failure to produce ESIAs inaccordance with appropriate guidelines
i s not solely the fault o f the Bank and the FCMCPP. On the other hand, the Bank's
unwillingness to pushfor highstandards set the tone for the FCMCPP's constant attempts
to lower the bar for the concession companies. As detailed insection 2.10, FCMCPP
staff disregarded the staff consultant's comments completely when they came to review
the concessionaires' plans.

Meanwhile, the response o f the World Bank to the lack o f community consultation in
companies' ESIA preparation has been to adopt the positiontaken by the Cambodian
Timber Industry A~sociation.~~           Intotal contradictionwiththe positionadvocatedbythe



62 GFA Terra Systems: `Results ofthe IndependentReview of StrategicForestManagementPlans prepared
by ConcessionCompanies operatingin Cambodia', August 2004, p.p. 30-3 1.
63 Meeting betweenWorld Bank country representative andFCMCPPtask manager, together with
representativesof Oxfam GB, Oxfam US, NGOForumon Cambodia and Global Witness, 22 December
2003.
64 Meeting betweenWorld Bank staff membersWilliam Magrath(FCMCPP Task Manager 2000-2004),
Peter Jipp (FCMCPP Task Manager 2004-), Stephen Mink and Steven Schonberger; with Suwanna
Gauntlett and DelphineVann Roeof Wildaid; MikeDavis and HannahThompson of Global Witness,
PhnomPenh, 20 April 2004.
65 CambodiaTimber Industry Association, `Environmentaland SocialImpactAssessment (ESIA) Terms of
Reference(TOR) and Workplan for PreahVihear Forest Concession of Cherndar PlywoodMfg. Co. Ltd',
April, 2001, p.15: ` I t the Strategic Plan level, only the assessment of current situations, identification of
community dependence onforest resources, identification of impacts and recommended mitigation
measures are to be carried out. Detailed and specijk treatment s and applications of ESIA measures are to
beformulated at the Compartment Plan levelfollowing the terms of tri-partite CollectiveAgreements
between the local authority, subject communities and the concessionaire throughconsultativeprocesses."


                                                                                                               24

staff consultant in2001,the Bank now argues that consultation on social impacts can be
deferred to the five year planning level.

The staff consultant's overall recommendationwas that "The ESLA terms-of-reference
and workplan should not be endorsed in their currentform by the Cambodian
Government, the international donor community or NGOs", however this is effectively
what the Bank, through the FCMCPP, has done. The issue o f lack o f adequate
consultation i s examined further inthe sections that follow.



2.5 Ignoring Evidence of Illegal Activities by the Concessionaires

The efforts o f community groups, NGOs and the media to document the illegal activities
o f the concession companies continued after the FCMCPP got underway. Under pressure
from international donors, the government agreed to the appointment o f Global Witness
as official monitor o f forest governance reform inCambodia at the end o f 1999. Global
Witness' activities received financial support from various bilateraldonors and fitted
within the framework of an overarching Forest Crime Monitoring and ReportingProject
managed by UNDP and FAO. This project focused on supporting efforts by the Forest
Administration and the Ministryo f Environment's Department o f Inspection to detect
and suppress forest crime. Its sources o f financing included the FCMCPP.


Example 1-Illegal logging by Everbright CIG Wood

The World Bank usedthe FCMCPP to support aspects o f the Forest Crime Monitoring
and Reporting Project situated within the Forest Administration. However, the Bank
declined to make the connection betweenthe findings o f the forest crime project and the
FCMCPP's parallel efforts to reform the concessionaires. Thus, while Global Witness
and others continued exposing illegal logging by concessionaires, this inno way shook
the World Bank's convictionthat the same companies remainedappropriate recipients of
LIL-funded technical assistance. This `see no evil' attitude is exemplified by a well-
publicised case o f illegal logging by EverbrightCIG Wood, a Chinese state-owned
company.

Between December 2000 and April 2001 Global Witness, together with Forest Crime
Monitoring and ReportingProject advisors supported by the FCMCPP, investigated a
large-scale illegal logging operation by Everbright. Over the same period, Global
Witness publicised a related case o f timber royalty evasion by the same company.
Everbright,whose sub-contractor is the ForestAdministration Director General Ty
Sokhun's father-in-law, responded by mounting a law suit (unsuccessfully) against
Global Witness staff. Everbright,by contrast, was never prosecuted or otherwise
punished for its actions.66


66FA staffwere conspicuously uncooperative inthe provincial authorities' efforts to investigate Everbright.
The provincialprosecutor handlingthe case informedGlobal Witness inOctober 2001 that the FA hadnot


                                                                                                       25

The World Bank appearsto have given little considerationto these developments.
Through the FCMCPP, it continued to advise and assist Everbright inthe company's
preparation of management plans. Eighteen months later, project staff declared
Everbrightto be one o ftwo companies inwhich they hadparticular ~onfidence.In~                  ~
early 2004, as detailed below, the FCMCPP made its recommendation to the Cambodian
government that Everbright's management plans be accepted.68

The Everbright case was just one example o f many illegal operations exposed by Global
Witness and others over the lifetimeo f the project. The World Bank likewise
acknowledged on several occasions that the concessionaires were continuing to break the
law:

Cambodiacontinues tofact a serious timber theft problem. The level of forest crime
appears to still be of worrisomeproportions and higher than is recognised in oficial
estimates and involves concessionaires, sub-contractors,and others operating within
concession boundaries in disregard of Government standards and required
procedures."69

Notwithstanding these expressions o f concern, the Bank continued to allow its project to
assist these same companies. It i s worth reflecting on how this approach sits with
Cambodia's own laws. The criteria by which companies' suitability as forest
concessionaires should bejudged are set out inArticle 4 o f the 2000 Sub-Decree on
Forest Concession Management:

"Only those commercial entities who have beenpre-selected and complied with the
conditions andproof below are allowed to apply:

    a) Demonstratedcompetencein all aspects of forest management including
        planning, harvesting,forest regeneration, stand management, environmental
        protection and community relations;
    b) A good compliancerecord, with an absence of serious technical violations in all
        jurisdictions in which it has been engaged inforestry operations; (emphasis
         added)
    e) AdequateJinancial andprofessional staff resources to carry out effectiveforest
         operations.



given himthe completed documentation required to move the case forward. The prosecutor claimed that
the FA'Sfoot-dragging was a deliberate ploy to obstruct prosecution ofEverbright.
67Global Witness interview with Yann Petrucci, technical advisor to FCMCPP, 17 September2003.
68The exact dateon which this recommendation was made is not known, becauseFCMCPP reports on the
concessionaires' managementplans have not beenmade publicly available.
69Letter from World Bank Country Director IanPorter to Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries,
12 December2001. Other examples of similar statementsinclude i)the December2001 World Bank
mission report, Annex 3; ii)letter from Mark Wilson, HeadofRural Development and Natural Resource
Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Regionto Forest Administration Director-General Ty Sokhun, 10 June
2002.


                                                                                                      26

Example 2 - Offsetting Timber Royalties

Itwas not only FCMCPP-supported technical staff who obtained evidence of serious
violations by the concessionaires, however. InJuly and August 2002 the FCMCPP task
manager wrote to Global Witness requestin informationon corruption and misuse o f
funds relating to Cambodia's forest sector?' At a meetingin September 2002, Global
Witness representatives duly presentedboth the task manager and the head o f the Bank's
Rural Development andNatural Resource Sector Unit,East Asia and Pacific Regionwith
documentation that exposed high-level corruption involving the concessionaires. The
offsetting scheme inquestion enabled the misappropriation o f large sums o f money that
the companies owed to the government in unpaid timber royalties.

The offsetting system emerged soon after the government imposed a moratorium on
further cutting and logtransportation inJanuary 2002. With concession operations in
suspension, revenue flow to the companies and their subcontractors almost immediately
dried up. Inresponse, the most powerful o f the company subcontractors and industry
fixers, who have blood or business relations with senior officials, engineered the
offsetting o f royalty payments owed by the companies. This operated as follows:


    0    Senior officials claimed that the government owed large sums o f money to certain
         creditors.
    0    Rather than paying the timber royalties they owed direct to the government, the
         concessionaires were instead invitedto pay these creditors -the payment o f
         royalties was thus offset.
    0    The concessionaires would be able to reimbursethe creditors incrementally. As
         an additional incentive, the amount they paid would be very slightly less than the
         total royalties they were legally obliged to pay the government.
    0    The transactions would be facilitated by the subcontractors and fixers, who also
         brokered their authorisation by senior officials (including the prime minister and
         deputy prime minister).

The disappearance o f royalties owed to the government was initially detected by the IMF
inmid-2002. Inresponse, the MinistryofEconomy andFinance (MEF) initiatedits own
audit which uncovered five `irregular' cases o f offsetting government debts against
royal tie^.^^ MEF demandedthat the concessionaires involvedpay the offset royalties to
the government; however evidence gathered by Global Witness suggests that this never
happened. Inaddition, Global Witness found that MEF's findingstouched on only a few
o f a much larger number o f cases involving almost all o f the concessionairesthat
operated in2001.

Infact, there are very strong indications that some or all ofthe government's purported
debts to creditors were fictitious and that the companies inquestion, many o f which had
not operated in Cambodia for years, were entirely unaware o f their role inthe offsetting


70E-mails from William Magrath to Global Witness, 13 July and 1August 2002.
71Global Witness investigations revealed that MEF, as well as other ministries, was in fact notified of all of
the offsetting deals at the time that they were originally brokered.


                                                                                                          27

arrangements. It i s hardto avoid the conclusion that the money, which amounted to
several million dollars, was simply stolen by the subcontractors and their political
patrons.72

One o f the World Bank's mainjustifications o f the concession system i s its supposedly
reliable delivery o f tax revenue to the state. Moreover, the Bank has frequently been
forthright (albeit selectively) in its condemnation o f corruption inCambodia.73 Inhis e-
mails to Global Witness requesting information, the FCMCPP task manager duly
expressed serious concern at the possibility o f royalty misappropriation havingtaken
place:

 "IhavediscussedwithGlobalWitnessstaff onnumerousoccasions,theimportanceI
would attach to information that Global Witnessmightprovide on royalty accruals.

 "Regarding our last conversation aboutpossible new information and allegations that
Global Witnessmight be in aposition to raise in respect of corruption and misuse of
funds, as Ihave indicated on other occasions,Ihave stand ready topass on information
and evidence to the appropriate Bank oflcials. Please let me know ifyou have material
of relevance to Bank operation in Cambodia and be assured that such information will be
treated very seriously.        ' j 7 j




Inthe event, however, the Bank did little or nothingwith the evidence concerning the
offsetting scheme. Indeed, only days after receiving the documentation from Global
Witness, the task manager wrote to the Forest Administration proposing that the log
transport moratorium be overturned and the same concession companies that had offset
their royalty payments be allowed to resume timber shipments.76

 The Bank's conduct in these (and other similar cases) again betrays its steadfast bias
towards the concessionaires, inthe face o f overwhelming evidence o f the damage they
 have inflicted on the public interest. Hadthe World Bank demanded that the FCMCPP
 desist from supporting the companies, it i s highly unlikely that any would have cleared
 the strategic levelplanningprocess. Inthe event, the overriding imperative to keepthe
 concessionaires inbusiness in order to realise the project goal prevailed over principle,
 concerns about Cambodian law or the integrity o f the forest sector reform process.




 72The MEF investigationof June 2002 claimedthat, the five cases that it examinedinvolved offsetting of
 more than $3 million owedto the state.
 73A summaryof World Bank statementsconcerningcorruption in Cambodiais includedinGlobalWitness,
 `Taking aCut', November2004, p.8.
 74E-mail from William Magrathto Global Witness, 13 July 2002.
 75E-mail from William Magrathto Global Witness, 1August 2002.
 76Letter from William Magrath,to Ty Sokhun, Director General, ForestAdministration, 3 October 2002;
 the Bank's attemptsto facilitate renewedlogtransports are examined inmore detail in section 2.12.
 As examinedinsection2.12, a significant proportionofthe logs in concessionaires' stockpileshadbeen
 felled illegally in the first place.


                                                                                                     28

2.6 Submissionof the ManagementPlans- "Deadlinesare notwritten in

The concession companies had committed to submittingtheir SFMPs and ESIAsby the
end of September 2001.78 Shortly before this deadline expired, consultantsto the
FCMCPP gave a presentation to members o f the international donor Working Group on
Natural Resource Management, inwhich they claimed that the companies had made
significant progress towards completion o f the plans.

These claims were subse uently exposed as grossly exaggerated or, inthe case o f some
companies, entirely false?' Inthe event, all the concessionaires missedthe 30 September
deadline. This providedgrounds for cancellation o f their contracts. Instead, World Bank
officials argued that the deadline should be allowed to slip and none o f the companies
penalised for their failure to meet it.*' These arguments prevailed and the government
decided to grant the companies another year to produce their plans. The short-term
consequence o f this was that the companies continued logging for the remainingmonths
o f 2001, before pressure from international donors other than the Bank persuadedthe
government to suspendconcession operations effective from January 2002. Duringthis
three month period several o f the companies, including Cherndar Plywood, Colexim
Enterprise and Samraong Wood continued ille ally logging resin trees and thus inflicting
substantial material harm on local inhabitants.      ki

Itis difficult to determine the degree to which lobbyingby Bank and FCMCPP staff
influenced the extension o f the plans' submission deadline. At a minimum, it reassured
the government that the Bank would support a decision to let companies off the hook.
Eitherway, this episode againhighlightsthe determination ofthe Bank and its projectto
shield the concessionaires from efforts to make them accountable.



2.7 Disclosure

Disclosure o f concessionaires' management plans is a requirement under the Article 19 o f
the Cambodian Forestry Law. Inaddition, the World Bank had made disclosure o f the
plans a condition for release o f the US$15 million second tranche o f its Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) to Cambodia, which was due for disbursement inDecember
2002.

                                ~~




77Comment attributedto FCMCPPtask manager when it became clear that the concessionaireswould not
meet the plans submission deadline.
78Department ofForestryand Wildlife (Forest Administration), `Progress Reporton ForestryReform-
Presentedat the Meeting ofthe Donor Working Group on Natural ResourcesManagement', 27 September
2001.
79Notably the case of Casotim company, which to date has still not producedan SFMP or ESIA but
continuesto maintaintenure of its concession.
  See, for example, minutes o f meetingbetweenJon Buckrelland Rosie Sharpe (Global Witness) with
Steven Schonberger, 9 August 2001.
  Global Witness `Deforestation Without Limits', July 2002, p.p. 16-17.



                                                                                                29

Inlate October 2002, the ForestAdministration announced that itwould allow aperiodof
only 19 days for public review and consultation on the documents. This period coincided
with a major public holiday, reducingthe actual amount of time to around two weeks.
The World Bank reactedby criticisingthe 19 day limitation, but then indicated that this
would nonetheless be sufficient to fulfil the SAC conditionality. Clearly, the Bank i s not
primarily to blame for the inadequate consultation period. However, its effective
endorsement o f the government's decision passed up a clear opportunity to use its
influence to remedy the situation. Moreover, the Bank's position gave the impression
that it was quite happy to see a basic mechanism for ensuringconcessionaire
accountability to forest dependent communities diluted to a degree that rendered it close
to meaningless.

Further to its tacit acquiescence to the 19 day consultation period, the World Bank office
inPhnomPenhagreedto take onthe government's legal responsibility for disclosing
copies o f the concessionaires' plans. However, following an intervention by the
Cambodia Timber IndustryAssociation, the Bank agreed that itwould disclose only an
edited version o f the plans, which excised the economic data.82 As discussed inmore
detail in section 2.11, the commercial viability o f all the concessions is highly
questionable. The Bank's acceptance o f the CTIA's argument that the public should be
denied access to the data that might reveal this is hard to reconcile with its professed
commitment to ensuring meaningful tran~parency.~~

When community andNGO representatives requested copies o fthe documents from the
Forest Administration on the first day o f the designated review period, the FA referred
them to the World Bank office. The Bank's reaction to the request for the documents
was to announce that it did not have some o f the documents, that it had only one copy o f
those that it had received and that these were all inblack and white (which renderedtheir
colour-coded maps indecipherable). Bank staff informedthe community and NGO
representatives that it did not have the funds to make more copies. What makes this
response all the more astonishing i s the fact that NGO representatives had
comprehensively briefedWorld Bank staffjust a few days beforehand on villagers'
intentions to come and request copies o f the plans.

Inthe words ofthe OxfamRegionalDirector inher letter to the World Bank Cambodia
Country Director

"It is hard to understandwhy the Bank chose to take on the legal responsibility of the
government to ensure disclosure of the documentsand why, having done so, itfailed to
discharge this responsibility competently.

  Letter from CambodiaTimber Industry Associationto IanPorter, World Bank CambodiaCountry
Director, 21 October 2002.
83Inpractice this information did enter the public domainbecause, while the CTIA and Forest
Administrationremovedthe economic data from English languageversions ofthe managementplans, they
forgot to excise it from the Khmer languagecopies.
84Letter 2002 from Heather Grady, RegionalDirector of Oxfam to IanPorter, World Bank Country
Director, Cambodia, 6 December 2002.


                                                                                              30

Inview ofthe WorldBank's underlying commitment to the poor andvulnerable, its role
inthe unravelling ofa key accountability mechanism designedto protect suchpeople's
interests i s particularly regrettable. It also constitutes a breach o f the provisions on
disclosure of Operational Policy OP 4.01 on Environment Assessment, as detailed in
section 3,Ibelow.



2.8 Consultation

One o f the first outcomes o f the eventual disclosure o f the SFMPs and ESIAswas to
confirm that the concessionaires had not carried out adequate community consultation, as
required by the planningprocess.85

On 5 December representatives of communities situated in and around concessions went
to the Forest Administration to request a consultation on the content o f the management
plans. They spoke with the Project Director o f the FCMCPP, Chea Sam Ang, who i s also
Deputy Director o f the Forest Administration. Chea Sam Ang refused their re uest for a
meeting and, according to some o f the community members, threatened them.'                  In
response, the villagers staged a sit-inprotest outside the Forest Administration main
office. The same evening, special police unitsviolently dispersed them, usingelectric
shock batons.

While the World Bank did protest the use o f violence by the police, it nevertheless
undermined this commendable stance by failing to take action against the FCMCPP
Project Director. Inthis regard it i s worth notingthat evidence o f subsequent illegal
activities by the same individual has been brought to the World Bank's attention and
elicited no response.87

The outcomes o f the FCMCPP are damaging primarily because they strengthenthe hand
of companies whose activities cause material harm to rural Cambodians. Inthis instance,
however, the harm was immediate and implicated FCMCPP staff directly. The ways in
which this represents a breach o f operational policy OP 4.01 are examined in Section 3.

Inthe face ofwidespread criticismofthe limitedwindow for comment onthe plans and
the lack o fpublic consultations duringtheir preparation, the government announcedthat


85GlobalWitness, `Preliminary Assessment of Strategic ForestManagement Plans and Environmentaland
SocialImpactAssessment Reports-Cambodia's Forest Management Options for the Future' December
2002, p.p.21; GFA Terra Systems: `Results ofthe IndependentReview of Strategic ForestManagement
Plans preparedby ConcessionCompaniesoperatingin Cambodia', August 2004, p.135.
86Letter from Heather Grady, RegionalDirector of Oxfam to IanPorter, World Bank Country Director,
Cambodia, 6 December 2002.
87 See, for example letter from Global Witness to Peter Jipp, Task Managerofthe FCMCPP, 22 July 2004
concerning Chea Sam Ang's role in facilitating the transportoftimber illegally loggedwithin aprotected
forest inMondulkiri. The fact that conservationofthis same protectedforest was beingfunded throughthe
FCMCPPwas apparently insufficient to persuade the World Bank to take action.


                                                                                                     31

  itwould allow further consultations beyondthe allotted 19days. These consultations,
  which had started at the beginningo f the designated review period inNovember 2002
  thus continuedthroughthe first months of2003. Some ofthese were marredby
  intimidation o f the participants and attempts to trick villagers into signing off blank
  documents.88

  A World Bank representative inJanuary 2003 admitted that the standard o fthese
  consultations was very poor.8g By contrast World Bank Regional Vice-president Jemal-
  ud-dinKassuminformedNGO Forum on Cambodia inDecember 2003 that

   "community consultations onforest concession managementplans have been taking
  place. A report has beenproduced by the Government, but has not been madepublic.
   Wewill urge the Government to disseminate this report to interestedparties in the
  interest of increasing understandingof community concerns regardingforest
  management. Specialist social science staff of the WorldBank have reviewed this work
  and concluded that it was a satisfactory basisfor the strategic level decision making of
  Government.

  Itis not clear whether Mr Kassumwas referringto the same set of consultations andthe
  report he referred to does not appear to have been published. World Bank staff
  responsible for the FCMCPP have since echoed his satisfaction with the standard o f
  consultations. InApril 2004 the outgoing task manager claimed that a World Bank social
  science specialist had concluded that social impacts were adequately addressed duringthe
  strategic level planningproce~s.~'The social scientist's supposed conclusions (which
  have also not beenpublished) are at odds with those o f the independent review team that
  examined the companies' plans in July to August 2004:

   `>participation in the designation of community areas did not takeplace and the whole
  social context of these concessions has becomeproblematic as a result, even though the
   TRT (FCMCPPplans review team) initiated community consultations aspart of their
  review process. The currentlyproposed community use zones and resource accessplans
. are therefore inadequate.      'lg2




  '*See, for example, letter from Heather Grady, Regional Director of Oxfam to IanPorter, World Bank
   Country Director, Cambodia, 6 December 2002; field notes compiled by NGO representatives attending the
  consultations.
  Inat least one instance, representativesofthe Colexim Enterprise company tried to persuadevillagers to
  thumbprint a blank document in exchange for blankets.
   89MeetingbetweenPeter Stephens, Melissa FossbergandBou Saroeun of the World Bank, together with
  Eva Galabru, Jon Buckrell, Marcus Hardtke and MikeDavis of Global Witness, 15 January 2003.
   90Letter from World Bank Vice PresidentJemal-ud-din Kassum to NGO Forum on Cambodia, 17
  December2004.
   9'MeetingbetweenWorld Bank staff membersWilliam Magrath (FCMCPP Task Manager 2000-2004),
  Peter Jipp (FCMCPP Task Manager 2004-), Stephen Mink and Steven Schonberger;with Suwanna
  Gauntlett andDelphine Vann Roe of Wildaid; MikeDavis and Hannah Thompson of Global Witness,
  Phnom Penh, 20 April 2004.
   92GFA Terra Systems: `Results of the IndependentReview of StrategicForest ManagementPlans prepared
   by ConcessionCompaniesoperating in Cambodia', August 2004, p.135.


                                                                                                        32

The World Bank and FCMCPP's satisfaction with the consultations is further manifested
inthe project's conclusion in2004 that plans submittedby six ofthe concessionaires
should be approved. On one level, this provides an example o f the FCMCPP endorsing
harmful acts by other parties (officials and companies), which undermined a key public
accountability mechanism. The World Bank should have ensured the FCMCPP took the
poor quality o f the consultations into consideration when it reviewedcompanies' plans;
however, as discussed below, it did not.

Comments by World Bank staff suggest that the project had a more direct responsibility
for ensuring the quality o f the consultations, however. The Bank undertook no prior
environmental and social assessmento f the project's impacts before it began, thus
placing it inbreach o f OP 4.01 on Environment Assessment. Asked to explain this, the
outgoing project task manager claimed that compliance with this operational policy was
fulfilled through the environmental and social assessmentwork carried out by the
concessionaires assisted by the FCMCPP.93 This explicit identificationo f the FCMCPP's
performance with the social and environmental work o f the companies raises more
questions than it answers. Giventhe standard o f the consultations conducted by the
companies, this suggests that the FCMCPP i s also in breachthe provisions o f OP 4.01
regarding public consultation. This issue is explored in more detail in Section 3.

Lack o f consultation was one o f the reasons for the World Bank rating the FCMCPP as
`unsatisfactory' inthe second half o f 2002.94It is reassuring to know that the Bank had
some awareness o f the project's deficiencies inthis regard. Nevertheless, the belated
increase in number o f consultation exercises since has not been matched by any
qualitative improvement. Moreover, as these consultations have taken place after the
companies had already submittedtheir SFMPs and ESIAs, their scope to influence the
concessionaires' planning process has been very limited.



2.9 Forest Cover Survey

In2003, the FCMCPP undertook a forest cover study of Cambodia for use inits
assessmento f concessionaires' management plans. Consultants working on the
FCMCPP admitted that the three months allocated made it difficult to do the job
th~roughly.~'Inthe event, the consultant nominally leading the study was absent for



93Meeting betweenWorld Bank staff membersWilliam Magrath (FCMCPP Task Manager2000-2004),
PeterJipp (FCMCPP Task Manager2004-), StephenMink and Steven Schonberger togetherwith Suwanna
Gauntlettand DelphineVann Roe of Wildaid; MikeDavis and HannahThompsonof Global Witness,
PhnomPenh, 20 April 2004.
94J. Blakeney, Kay Panzer,Wemer Schindele, `Forest ConcessionManagement and Control PilotProject-
FinalReportofthe Mid-TermReviewMission', February-March2003, p. 3.
95Global Witness interview with Yann Petrucci,technical advisorworking onFCMCPPteam, 17
September 2003. This view was supportedby the findings ofthe mid-term review ofthe FCMCPP:J.
Blakeney, Kay Panzer, Werner Schindele, `Forest ConcessionManagement and Control PilotProject-
FinalReportofthe Mid-TermReview Mission', February-March2003.


                                                                                              33

most o f this period. Neither he nor the World Bank exercised much supervision o f the
exercise.

When the forest cover survey results were released inJune 2003, they purported to show
that Cambodia's forest cover had increased by more than 4%. This came as a surprise in
view o f documented deforestation and forest degradation inthe years since the previous
cover assessment (1997). As it turned out, the FCMCPP study contained internal
inconsistencies, methodological weaknesses and basic errors.96 When asked why areas
that the 1997 survey displayed as bare earth were now fully forested, an FCMCPP
consultant suggested that this reflected the inability o f the study to distinguishbetween
forest cover and bamboo.97

The overall conclusion, that Cambodia's forest cover was increasing, helped boost the
World Bank's arguments for more industrial logging by concessionaires. More
immediately, however, the study's flawed findings provided a usefulpolitical prop for the
governing party's re-election campaign ahead o f the national ballot inJuly 2003. On
National Tree Planting Day in July 2003, Prime MinisterHun Sen citedthe FCMCPP
forest cover study as evidence o f his wise stewardship o f the country's forests over the
previous five years. While unlikelythat such a claim would, on its own, determine the
outcome o f an election, forest management i s a highlypolitical issue in Cambodia, and
has been known to influence the results o f previous polls in some localities.

Itis difficult to determine whether the FCMCPP deliberately set out to manipulate the
findings o f the study, not least as ithas declined to publishthe survey's findings infull.
Either way, the main outcomes can be summarised as follows:


    0   LILmoney wasted
    0   the opportunity to produce an authoritative assessment of forest cover lost
    0   production o f misleading information at a time when it was liable to be used for
        political purposes

At a minimum,the poor oversight ofthis projectcomponent constitutes a breacho f
operational policy OP 13.05 on project supervision.



2.10 Declaration on Forestry Revenues Systems Management

Another component of the FCMCPP has been the development o f a prakas - a ministerial
declaration that forms an additional component o f an existing law - covering forestry
revenue systems management.98 Under an action plan agreed by the World Bank and the
RGC in early 2003, the government agreed to put this prakas inplace by the start o f May



96Bruce McKenney, notes on forest cover study presentation, 27 June 2003.
97Global Witness interview with Yann Petrucci, technical advisor to FCMCPP, 17 September2003.
98This prakas is called for under Cambodia's 2002 Forest Law.


                                                                                              34

the same year. Prior to finalisation, the prakas would be publicly disclosed and available
for comment. Assistance inthese processes would be provided through the FCMCPP.

The prakas was not completed intime for the May 1deadline and the process effectively
dropped out o f sight. FCMCPP staff involved admitted that they were not keeping a
close track o f the prakas development and were unable to provide informationas to when
the slated disclosure and comment periodwould take place.99

At a meeting inDecember 2003, the WorldBank task manager informedNGO
representativesthat the prakas had already been passed. Responding to requests for
information on its availability for comment prior to completion, the task manager stated
that "apublic" had been consulted. Asked to define the public inquestion, he explained
that it consisted solely o f the IMF office in Cambodia.'00

While presumably now completed and legally applicable, the prakas has still not been
publicly disseminated. Inthe first instance its disclosure i s undoubtedly the
responsibility o f the Cambodian government rather than the World Bank. However the
Bank, having chosen to take a role inthe prakas development, had considerable scope to
steer the process. It chose not to exercise this. Although not necessarily materially
harmful in itself, the Bank's handling o f the issue is indicative o f the lack o f commitment
to transparency and consultation which has characterisedthe FCMCPP and explains
several o f its more damaging outcomes.



2.11 Reviewingthe Management Plans

As described above, continued evidence o f forest crimes by the logging concessionaires
did not shake the World Bank's conviction that the FCMCPP should continue supporting
them. Neither did the FCMCPP take account o f companies' illegal activities when it
came to assessing their plans."'      As with other elements ofthe project, the FCMCPP
team went out o f its way to accommodate the companies.




99E-mailfrom DennisCengel, technical advisorto FCMCPPto Global Witness, 15 September 2003.
looMeeting betweenWorld Bank country representative andFCMCPPtask manager,together with
representativesof Oxfam GB, Oxfam US,NGOForum on Cambodiaand Global Witness, 22 December
2003.
lo'As criticism ofthe FCMCPPhas mounted, the World Bank has taken to referring to the team reviewing
the concessionaires' plans as "thegovernment's technical review team"; for example inthe letter from
CambodiaCountry Director IanPorterto Global Witness, 20 December 2004. This is anonetoo subtle
attempt to place distance betweenthe Bank and areview team that clearly labels its written outputs as
 "Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project"; as for example in the FCMCPP's 2003
report on the SFMP and ESIA produced by Kingwood company. The report on Kingwood's is one of only
two out of 13 such documents that the project has actually publicly disclosed.


                                                                                                      35

Refusal to take account of concessionaires' track records

The FCMCPPteam reviewingthe plans closed its eyes to all past offences by the
concessionaires. This establisheda skewed system o f assessmentby which plans written
by external consultantswere treated as the sole indicator ofthe company's will and
capacity to manage forest responsibly. Meanwhile, documented past practices o f the
companies themselves (as opposed to the scribes who drafted the management plans)
were studiously overlooked.

Interms of evaluating the companies' suitability as forest managers, this approach had
obvious limitations. From a supposedly `technical' forestry standpoint, moreover it
introduced basic errors into the review process. For example, inthe aforementioned case
o f illegal logging by Everbright in2000-2001, the concessionaire cut substantial portions
o f the timber stand in its concessioncoupe number two. Inits management plan the
company indicated its intention to log this same coupe again within 10-11 years, despite
the fact that coupes are only supposedto be cut once every 25 years. As a result oftheir
refusal to take account o f past and ongoing illegal activities, the FCMCPP review team
did not pick this up. When it was pointed out to them they refusedto factor it into their
review o f the company's submission.'02


Prioritising timber volume to the exclusion of environmental and social impactplanning

The World Bank took no action to prevent its project from adopting a wholly flawed
scorecard system for assessing concessionaires' SFMPs and ESIAs.lo3              Under the
FCMCPP methodology, different elements o f companies' submissions are assessedand a
certain number o f points awarded or deducted for each component. These individual
scores are then added to produce an overall figure. The system is very heavily weighted
towards consideration o f the amount o f timber the company has left in its concession.
Thus, while a company can obtain a maximum of 125 points ifitproduces satisfactory
inventory data, it will only receive 30 points for an acceptable ESIA. The available
project reports on Kingwood and MiengLy Hengplans include the careful caveat that

 "A quantitative score and weight wereprovided at each stagefollowing the evaluation,
but these should be interpreted more as guidelines than as absolute measures of the
relative importance o the criteria that were established to evaluate theforest
managementplan.       j 1 1of4




lo' Minutesofmeetingbetween Yann Petrucci,technical advisorto FCMCPPandMikeDavis of Global
Witness, 17 September 2003.
IO3 Although the natureofthis scoringsystemwas not publicly disclosedduring the review process,
scorecards for Kingwood andMiengLy Heng company plans are includedinthe FCMCPP's reports on the
submissions ofthese two concessionaires.
IO4 ForestConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project, "TechnicalReview of the Strategic Forest
Management Plan and Environmental and SocialImpactAnalysis -Kingwood Company Kratie
Concession 2003.
            `I,




                                                                                                  36

However, the implication is clear enough -companies that still have viable forest intheir
concession will receive approval to carry on cutting. Poor quality o f SFMP, ESIA or
community consultation (up to 30 points added or subtracted for each) i s not going to
prejudice this outcome.

So distorted is this system, that it seriously questions the sincerity o f the World Bank's
professed efforts to reform the companies. The methodology betrays the fact that the
project's over-riding concern i s how much timber is left, rather than the quality o f forest
management that the concessionaires can offer or their respect for the rightso f local
communities. The Bank was quite aware o f this situation and did nothing to correct it,
suggesting that the FCMCPP's approachwas entirely in line with its own agenda.


Disregarding legal prohibitions on cutting resin trees

Probably the most harmful impact o f the concessions on rural Cambodians has been the
companies' illegal logging of resin-producing trees. The 1988 Decree on Forest Practice
Rulesprohibitedfelling o ftrees that peoplewere actively tapping for resin.
Concessionaires consistently flouted this law, however, and cut them invast numbers.
Various public statements by officials, including the prime minister, calling on the
companies to desist from cutting resin trees did little to change this.'05

Article 29 o f the new Forest Law introduced in 2002 extended the existingprotection to
 "trees within a species /type that local communitieshave traditionally tappedto extract
resin ";inother words all resinproducing trees, notjust those already tapped. This
provisionthus protects not only those trees that villagers are currently tapping, but also
those that they have earmarked for tapping inyears to come.lo6

Resin-producing dipterocarp trees are the staple inputfor plywood and veneer production
by the concessionaires and have historically constituted the bulk o fthe harvest inmany of
the con~essions.'~~the law is upheldand cutting o fthese trees is stopped, it is highly
                       If
unlikely that any o f the concessions can be considered economically viable. A recent



IO5PrimeMinister Hun Sen publicly orderedthe concessionaires to stop cutting resintrees on 18 April
2001. Letter from Global Witness to PrimeMinister HunSen concerningcontinued logging ofresintrees
by Cherndar Plywood, Colexim Enterprise, GAT International, Pheapimex and SamraongWood, 9 January
2002.
Io6BruceMcKenney, Yim Chea, Prom Tola and Tom Evans, `Focusing on Cambodia's HighValue Forests:
Livelihoods and Management', CambodianDevelopmentResourceInstitute and Wildlife Conservation
Society, November2004, p.58: "In addition to tappedtrees, most householdshave resin trees "in
reserve" - untapped smaller resin treesgrowing among their currently tapped resin trees which theyplan
to tap in thefuture. On average, Kompong Thom householdsclaim 145 trees in reserve and Preah Vihear
householdsreport 34 trees in reserve.''
`07Reference inPheapimex-Fuchan/ DepartmentofForestry and Wildlife harvest logbookfor Pheapimex-
FuchanStungTreng/ Thalabariwat concession cited inGlobal Witness, `Preliminary Assessment of
Strategic ForestManagementPlans andEnvironmentaland Social Impact Assessment Reports-
Cambodia's ForestManagementOptionsfor the Future', December 2002, p.13; Global Witness,
`DeforestationWithout Limits', July 2002, p.17.


                                                                                                     37

analysis o f timber stands inthe Cherndar Plywood concession inPreahVihear concluded
as follows:

"Resin trees represent about halfof the timber volume and rent in the Preah Vihear
(Cherndar Plywood) area, suggesting that logging operations (in this area) will have
great incentivesto cut resin treesregardless of the legalprohibition. Such actionswill
significantly increasepoverty in the areafor more than half of the (surveyed)households.
This income cannot easily be replaced because employmentalternatives in the area are
scarce. Expectinglogging companiesto adopt sustainableforest management appears to
be a non-starter, as rentsfall dramatically under such an approach. No operation that

that reduces timber rents by nearly 90percent, especially if there remainfew enforced
can carry on with conventionallogging will want to adhere to a management approach

penaltiesfor non-compliance.     >j1O8




Intheir managementplans, concessionaires included resin-producing trees intheir
inventories and annual allowable cut (AAC) -calculations by which they justified their
economic viability. A review o f the plans carried out to basic professional standards
would have been unable to avoid the following conclusions:

     0   The companies claims to economic viability were highly suspect
     0   The plans indicated the companies' intentionto carry on cutting resin-producing
         trees illegally

Instead, the FCMCPP review team accepted the companies' intended logging o f the trees
as legitimate and assessedthe concessions' inventories and AACs accordingly. NGOs
pointed out the content and meaning o f the Forestry Law's Article 29 to both the
FCMCPP and the World Bank on several occasions. At a meeting with Global Witness
inSeptember 2003, a member ofthe FCMCPP review team acknowledgedthe meaning
o f the law and its protection o f all trees o f resin-producing species. However, he said that
the review team would ignore it because they thought that the Ministry o f Agriculture,
Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) might grant an exemption for the companies. Any
attempt by MAFFto issue a blanket waiver for logging companies would certainly be
strongly contested. Either way, no such exemption has been issued.

As argued above, inorder to meetthe project objectives set by the World Bank, the
FCMCPP neededto ensure that some o f the concessionaires at least could resume
logging. Inthe absence o f any plausiblejustification, this appears the most likely
explanation for the project's conscious decision to ignore the law in its assessment o f the
companies' managementplans. As the FCMCPP team surely realized, this amounted to
encouragement o f illegal logging that would penalise some o f Cambodia's poorest
citizens.




lo*Bruce McKenney, Yim Chea, Prom Tola and Tom Evans, `Focusing on Cambodia's High Value
Forests:Livelihoods and Management', Cambodian Development ResourceInstitute and Wildlife
Conservation Society, November 2004, p.87.


                                                                                            38

Global Witness staff raised the same matter with the World Bank task manager and two
o f his colleagues in October 2003 and they promised to look into it.'09Whether they did
or not is unclear; in either event they did not compel the FCMCPPteam to amend its
review methodology. As well as exposing the underlyingrationale o f the FCMCPP and
its bias towards companies' interests, the project's decision to ignore the law and Bank's
failure to correct this point to a breach o f the Bank operational policy on project
supervision.


Extra time and extra chancesfor the concessionaires

Inthe event, the FCMCPP's review ofconcessionaires' SMFPs and ESIAs was far from
beinga substantive examination o ftheir will and capacity for sustainable forest
management. Instead the assessment evolved into a protracted exchange o f drafts that
robbed the process o f any residual credibility that it might otherwise have had.

When the companies finally submitted their plans up to a year after the originally agreed
September 2001 deadline, FCMCPP staff conceded that in all cases the quality was
extremely poor. Rather than treating the documents as a gauge o f the companies'
suitability for concession management, however, the project chose to give them multiple
extra chances to improve them. By May 2004, some o f the companies had submitted
plans as many as three times.' loOn each occasion, FCMCPP staff sent the companies
suggestions on how to make them more presentable.

Throughout its review o f concessionaires' plans, the FCMCPP team repeatedly insisted
that its assessment was based on purelytechnical criteria. This was their justification for
overlooking companies' past violations o f the law, for example. Project staffs decision
to give the companies more and more opportunities to improve their plans was anything
buttechnical however. Once again, this reflectedthe FCMCPP imperative o f
shepherdingat least some o f the companiesthrough the process to a point where they
could resume logging. Not for the first time, the project demonstrated its determination
to place the interests o f the companies above those o f Cambodians who stood to suffer
the adverse impacts o ftheir continuedoperations. The Bank, meanwhile, was quite
aware o f these shortcomings, but did nothingto remedy them.


Postponing consideration of adverse social impacts

Inspite ofthe FCMCPP's provision oftechnical assistance to the concessionaires, the
calibre o f the plans they produced, even after several revisions, remained desperately
low, not least inthe realms o f environmental and social impacts. This threatened to


logMeeting betweenHak Sarom, Oxfam; Andrew Cock, NGO Forum, Mike Davis, Global Witness
together with William Magrath and Andrew Bondof World Bank and JohnDick, World Bank Staff
Consultant, PhnomPenh, October2003
`loGFA Terra Systems: `Results ofthe IndependentReview of Strategic ForestManagementPlans
preparedby ConcessionCompanies operatinginCambodia', August 2004, p.15.


                                                                                          39

obstruct the project's efforts to ensure that some companies continued operating. In
response, the FCMCPP staff and the World Bank task manager have increasingly sought
to gloss over the concessionaires' glaring lack o f attention to social impacts by arguing
that these can be addressed at the compartment (five year planning) level, after the
companies' strategic (25 year) level plans have already been approved.

This line o f argument is extremely disingenuous. The production and assessmento f the
strategic (25 year) plans offers the only real opportunity inthe concession reform process
to judge companies against their willingness and capacity to address the concerns o f local
communities. Indeed, the primacy o f strategic level planning for all aspects o f
concession management i s the reason the World Bank focused its project on this process
rather than planning at the compartment and annual coupes level. For the same reason,
communities, NGOs and other donors have concentrated their efforts on ensuring that the
strategic planning phase meets minimuminternational standards.

Itwas with the same concerns inmindthat the World Bank staffconsultant examining
the CTIA terms o f reference for ESIA wrote that community participation at the
strategic-level planning stage was essential.'     l1 Ina similar vein, the independent review
of six companies' concessionplans completed inAugust 2004, argued that

"There is still disagreement regarding whether work with communities should takeplace
during strategic or compartment levelplanning. However, most of the existing
guidelines, notably the Social Forestry Guidelines of 1998,are very clear that
participatory planning with stakeholders needs to takeplace at concession level. Wefeel
that, given the strategic nature of the social tasks and thepaught history of relations
between many of the concessionsand the communities, there is no alternative to
participatory survey andplanning at the concession level.           "



With their strategic level plans approved, the concessionairesare inan unassailable
position. Indeed, it is almost inconceivable that they would have their concessions
terminated on the basis o f poor planningat the five year and annual coupe stages. The
notion that local inhabitants might, in subsequent planning exercises, stand a better
chance o f compelling the companies to take account o f their interests i s fanciful.
Relegating social impacts considerations to subsidiary stages completely undermines
their negotiating position. Nevertheless, the FCMCPP and the project task manager have
increasingly talked about how social impact considerations such as the cutting o f resin-
producingtrees should be addressed in compartment level rather than strategic level
planning. 'l2




`I1John H.Dick, Staff Consultantto The World Bank, `Comments on the Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment Terms of Reference andWorkplan for The PreahVihear Concessiono f Cambodia Cherndar
Plywood, as preparedby the CambodianTimber Industry Association, April 2001', July 2001, section 2.
    GlobalWitness interview with Yann Petrucci, technical advisor to FCMCPP, 17 September 2003;
Meeting betweenWorld Bank staffmembersWilliam Magrath (FCMCPP Task Manager 2000-2004), Peter
Jipp (FCMCPP Task Manager 2004-), StephenMinkand Steven Schonberger; with SuwannaGauntlett and
Delphine Vann Roe of Wildaid; Mike Davis andHannah Thompson of Global Witness, Phnom Penh, 20
April 2004.


                                                                                                   40

World Bank and FCMCPP staffs motivations for pushingsocial considerations to the
compartment levelplanning stage are suspect, not least as the project design never
anticipated work at the compartment level at all. The FCMCPP Project Appraisal
Document talks about planningtaking place only at the strategic and annual coupe
 level^."^ The terms o f reference for consultants assigned to the project, moreover, refer
only to strategic (25 year), coupe (one year) and block (subdivision o f the annual coupe)
planning.' l4

That the World Bank i s now so eager to push social issues to a planning level that it did
not previously considered o f importance raises serious questions about its commitment to
ensuring that they are addressed ina meaningful way. The overall approach reinforces
the impression o f a project desperate to find ways o fjustifying some o f the companies
and prepared to sideline the interests o f ordinary Cambodians in order to do so.


Ignoringconjlicts of interest

The concessionaires' SFMPs and ESIAswere not written by company staff responsible
for operations, but rather by three different groups and institutions'     15:


Table 2: Authorship of concessionaires' managementplans




   World Bank, `Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Learning and Innovation Credit to the
Kingdom of Cambodia for a Forest Management and Control Pilot Project', June 2000, p.15.
`I4Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project, `Consulting Serviceson Forest Management
Planning and Training Terms of Reference'.
`I5Global Witness, `Preliminary Assessmento f Strategic Forest Management Plans and Environmental and
Social Impact AssessmentReports-Cambodia's Forest Management Options for the Future', December
2002, p.5.


                                                                                                  41

This initself made the validity of the plans highlyquestionable. That none ofthe
concessionaires had staff capable of producing a concession managementplan or ESIA
should have served as yet another reminder o f the quality o f forest stewardship that these
companies could offer. Presumably inthe interests o f efficient time management, the
documents' authors copied whole sections from one plan to another. For example, the
CTIA discovered identical eating habits in all six o f the concessions for which it prepared
plans:

"Dried toads were observedfor sale in the medicine shops in nearby towns, as well as
river terrapins in the local wet markets. Frog is a common andpopular dish, both in the
local kitchens as well as urban restaurants. I t is interesting to note that a kind of
tarantula spider, black beetle and cricket arefavorite snacks of localpeople, but these
species normally occur near ricej?elds. '' (Section on Reptiles and Amphibians for
Silveroad ESIAp.43; Samling Kratie-Mondulkiri ESIAp.44; Samling Koh Kong ESIA
p.42; Everbright ESIAp. 49; Cherndar PlywoodESIAp.40; Mieng Ly HengESIA
p.41)"

Inits reviewprocess, the FCMCPP team decidedto close their eyes to the copy andpaste
methodology and the World Bank appears to have made no effort to correct this.
Furthermore, the Bank and the project team declined to address the serious conflict o f
interests that that the documents' authorship posed. Five o f the concessionaires had
commissioned plans from staff o f the Forest Administration and Ministry o f Agriculture,
Forestry and Fisheries -the same institutions responsible for deciding whether or not the
companies should be allowed to resume operations. Three more companies had hiredthe
Forest Research Institute;an organisation establishedwithin the Forest Administration.
The World Bank's staff consultant drewthe Bank's attention to this issue inJuly 2001;
however his advice was not heededby either the FCMCPP task manager or the project
team. '*
FCMCPP international consultants tasked with reviewing the plans insistedthat none o f
their Forest Administration counterparts hadwrittenthe plans they were reviewing. Even
iftrue,thisdoesnotaddresstheunderlyingproblemoftheFCMCPPreviewteam's FA
membersassessing documents producedby their own institution. Moreover, as already
noted, one o f the FCMCPP's senior project staff has been simultaneously employed as
assistant to a concession company shareholder.

Itis difficult to determine whether such conflict of interestsplayeda role inthe
conclusions that the FCMCPP reached. Either way, this offers one more example o f the
way that the Bank was prepared to overlook the project's deviation from basic
professional standards.


`I6GlobalWitness, `Preliminary Assessment of Strategic ForestManagement Plans and Environmentaland
SocialImpactAssessment Reports-Cambodia's ForestManagement Options for the Future', December
2002, p.5
   John H.Dick, Staff Consultantto The World Bank, `Comments on the Environmentaland SocialImpact
Assessment Terms ofReferenceand Workplan for The Preah Vihear Concessionof Cambodia Chemdar
Plywood, as preparedby the Cambodian Timber Industry Association, April 2001', July 2001, Section 2.


                                                                                                  42

Ignoring the combined impacts of concessionaireson Cambodia'sforested landscapes

The FCMCPP assessmentexcluded considerationo fthe combined impacts o f logging
companies' plans on Cambodia's forested landscapes. The team examined the different
sets o f plans entirely in isolation from one another. This approach proceeded from the
flawed assumption that logging would only have environmental and social impacts within
the boundaries of the given concession and the combined impacts o f groups o f
contiguous concessions could be discounted.

The FCMCPP therefore took no account o f the obvious environmental and social impacts
o f the plans o f two companies with adjacent concessions to drive parallel roads into
Cambodia's last intact lowland evergreen forest, Prey Long.'18 Again the Bank took no
corrective action. The Bank's decision to help companies develop plans for industrial
logging inthis ecologically valuable area i s itself a breach o f World Bank operational
policy OP 4.36 on forests, as discussed in Section 3.3.



2.12 The ModelPlans

 "The concessionmanagement and operationsplans developedwith the aid of technical
assistancewill serve as modelsfor similar plans to be developed,subsequently, in all
operating concessions. As such they will serve as standards by which the acceptability of
suchplans will bejudged (by the ForestAdministration)" FCMCPP Project Appraisal
Document, p.15

As a result o f the deficiencies inthe FCMCPP's assessment andthe Bank's failure to
correct them, by June 2004 the project had recommended that the Cambodian
government approve the plans o f six o f the companies: Cherndar Plywood, Colexim
Enterprise, EverbrightCIG Wood, Samraong Wood, TPP and Timas Resources. The
companies may yet be requiredto produce further plans (compartment / five year level
and annual coupe). However, acceptance o f the strategic level plan is the critical
threshold that the concessionaires must cross in order to assert control o f their
concessions for the next 25 years. It is for this reasonthat all stakeholders - Cambodian
government, World Bank and other donors, community groups and NGOs have attached
particular importance to the strategic level planning process.

With two exceptions, the FCMCPPhas not disseminated its assessmentso fthe
companies' plans. A table setting out the review team's conclusions is included, however



`I8 Global Witness interview with Yann Petmcci, technicaladvisor working on FCMCPPteam, 17
September 2003; Global Witness, `Preliminary Assessmentof Strategic Forest ManagementPlans and
Environmentaland SocialImpactAssessment Reports-Cambodia'sForestManagement Options for the
Future', December 2002, p.30-31.


                                                                                              43

inthe annex of the 2004 GFA Terra review ofthe six sets of documents' 19. This
summary shows how the FCMCPP has implicitly or explicitly acknowledged deficiencies
inall the concession documents to which ithas given its endorsement. Ineach case ithas
justified this with the argument that these flaws can be rectifiedduring subsequent
planning stages.120

Itis therefore not surprisingto findthat the quality ofthe SFMPs and ESIAsthat the
FCMCPP recommended for approval remains thoroughly deficient. Many contain even
the same elementary errors as the first drafts disclosed inNovember 2002, notably blatant
copying o f whole passages from other companies' plans. For example the FCMCPP-
approved Cherndar Plywood management plan persists in describing its concession in
Preah Vihear province (close to the Thai border) as a wildlife corridor between a
protected area inMondulkiriprovince and Vietnam.

Cherndar Plywood, or rather the CTIA staff it hired to write the document, copied this
section wholesale from the plan prepared by Samling for its Mondulkiriconcession. In
this regard is interestingto notethat the FCMCPP dismissedboth sets of concession
plans produced by Samling, a company involved ina protracted disputewith the
Cambodian government, despite the fact that Samling's plans provided the blueprint for
the other four drafted by the CTIA.

All six concessionaires have a track record of serious forest crime and/or contractual
breaches documented by the ADB Concession Review o f 2000, reports by Global
Witness and others. Moreover, they include the same company (TPP) whose concession
was described by the 2000 ADB-financed study as 90% non-operable.'21 According to
the same ADB report, none of the companies had enough forest left to permit the
sustainable 25 year cutting cycle that the concessionaires are required to follow.

The companies all either state or implytheir intention to cut resin-producing trees,
despite the fact that this is illegal. Resin-producing trees are not excluded from
inventories and calculations of annual allowable cut. One concessionaire (Colexim) talks
about how it has decided to pay villagers small amounts o f money (unilaterally
determinedin advance by the company), after illegally cuttingtheir trees. Some also
indicate their hostility towards local forest users by describing collection o f non timber
forest products as illegal, which it is not; and declaring their intentionto exclude
communities from certain areas, which is.`22




` 1 9 GFA Terra Systems: `Results of the IndependentReview o f Strategic Forest Management Plans
preparedby ConcessionCompanies operating in Cambodia', August 2004, annexes.
 I 2 Oibid.
 12'  Asian Development Bank SustainableForest Management Project `Cambodian Forest Concession
Review Report', 2000.
 I22  Article 15 ofthe 2002 Forest Law states that: "Concessionaires shall have the right to manage and
conductforest products and by-products harvesting operations within their concession, while ensuring that
the operation does not interfere with... customary access and user rightspracticed by communities residing
within or adjacent toforest concessions.''


                                                                                                       44

The concessions that the FCMCPP recommends for renewed logging include three
encompassing the core o f Prey Long forest, the last intact lowland evergreen forest in
mainland Southeast Asia. The FCMCPP's position i s at odds with the recommendation
o f the 2004 Cambodia IndependentForest Sector Review, funded by the World Bank and
other donors, which concludes that Prey Long should be takenout o f production in
recognition o f its highconservation value. This decision to support logging o f an
ecologically valuable area breaches the World Bank operational policy on forests (section
3.3 below).

As already noted, the World Bankproject and the Government ForestAdministration
have declined to publishthe FCMCPP's evaluations o f the SFMPs and ESIAs, thus
adding to prevailing lack of transparency within the sector. Communities affected by
concessionaires' activities are therefore denied even an explanation as to why the World
Bank project is endorsing the six companies' plans.

The FCMCPPreview team's conclusions tacit1 concede that community consultation for
the plans it has approved has been inadequate.lY3         This deficiency alone should be
grounds for rejection of the companies' submissions. However, rather than holdingthe
companies to account for their failings inthis regard, the FCMCPP staff and the World
Bank task manager have argued that they be invitedto compensate for these deficiencies
with extra consultation at the compartment level (five year) planning stage, as described
above.'24

As argued above, once the companies have secured control over concessions for another
25 years, there will be little or no incentive for them to take account o f the views o f local
inhabitants. The FCMCPP is thus denying forest-dependent communities an
unprecedented opportunity to hold concessionaires to account and have their voices
heard.

Following the FCMCPP's recommendation o f approval for Cherndar Plywood, Colexim
Enterprise, EverbrightCIG Wood, Samraong Wood, TPP and Timas Resources, the
international donor Working Group on Natural Resource Management convened an
independent evaluation o fthe six sets o fplans. The review team concluded that not one
o f the six companies should be allowed to resume logging without serious adjustments to
the plans that the FCMCPP had recommended for approval. Their report draws particular
attention to deficiencies in companies' assessment o f environmental and social impacts
and also the proposed logging of resin trees. It also criticises the FCMCPP review team
for the way inwhich they "generally permitted concessions to defer addressing social




   Notethat this annex ofthe GFA Terra Systems:`Results ofthe IndependentReviewof StrategicForest
ManagementPlanspreparedby ConcessionCompaniesoperating in Cambodia' was not disseminateduntil
January 2005.
    See, for example, annex o f GFA Terra Systems: `Results o f the IndependentReview of StrategicForest
ManagementPlanspreparedby ConcessionCompaniesoperating inCambodia', August 2004, which
summarises the conclusions ofthe FCMCPPteam reviewingthe plans.


                                                                                                     45

issues until the compartment level. In doing so, (they) have gone against the
guidelines 1'.'25

The World Bankhelpedto fundthis independent review. Italso helpedto pay for the
IndependentForest Sector Review(IFSR) completedinApril 2004 that recommended
that the entire concession systembe scrapped. InOctober 2004 the Bankpublisheda set
o f comments inresponseto the IFSRwhich admittedthat "concessionaire and
Governmentperformance has been largely a continuation of the (system ailure '
described in theADB supported assessment (of concessionsin 2000) ".12            l

Despitethis financial support of other reviews,and its acknowledgement oftheir
findings, the WorldBankhasnonetheless declinedto haltthe FCMCPP's unstinting
promotionofthe concessionsystem and itsoperators. Itspublic admissionthat the
concession system has failedCambodia hasnot done anythingto obviatethe damaging
impactof its project's endorsementofthe six loggingcompanies.




    GFA Terra Systems: `Results of the IndependentReview of Strategic Forest ManagementPlans
preparedby Concession Companiesoperatingin Cambodia', August 2004, p.128.
   World Bank,CambodiaIndependentForestry Sector Review- Comments and Proposals Going
Forward', October 2004; p.4


                                                                                             46

              SIX PLANSTHAT THE FCMCPP RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL

Cherndar PlywoodSFMP:
   Communities' rights will be respectedonly ifthey don`t conflict with the concessionaire'slegitimate
   interests. p. 66. This is an inversion of provisions ofArticle 15 of the Forest Law, which allows
   concessionaireactivities only so far as these do not interfere with "customary access and user rights
   practiced by communities residing within or adjacent toforest concessions".
   The company intendsto restrict community access to the forest outside of the `free access zones'
   unilaterally determined by the company (p. 112), which is against the law.
   The SFMP statesthat the only resin-producing trees that are protected are those tapped for household
   use (p. 113). Article 29 o f the Forest Law protectsall resin-producing trees.
   Cherndar Plywood does not subtractresin-producing trees from its calculations o f its annual allowable
   cut; hrther indicatingits intention to ignore the law.
   The company repeatedly states its intention to reduce shifting cultivation and collection of non-timber
   forest products by local people (p. 4, 6, 9, 11, 14, 29, 56, 57, 66). The right to collect non-timber forest
   products and practice shifting cultivation is protectedunder the Forestry Law and Land Law
   respectively.
   The company indicates its intention to cut luxury timber species, which is illegal (p.60)

ColeximEnterpriseSFMP:
   The company intends to continue cutting resintrees, eventhough this is illegal (p. 29).
   The company gives an annual harvesting estimate of 167,703.344 cubic metres per year (p. 82).
   Elsewhere it describes how, inthe past, it cut at a rate seven times what could be considered
   sustainable. The figures it gives for these previous unsustainableharvests are between 18,939 to
   62,433 cubic metres per year. This suggeststhat Colexim i s now intent on cutting at three or more
   times a levelthat was itselfseventimes more than what was sustainable.
   The results of its wildlife survey show that the company has succeeded in detecting animal species not
   usually known to be resident incentral Cambodia, notably coyote and seal (p.24).

EverbrightCIG Wood SFMP:
   The plan talks about free accesszones (p.79), which conversely suggests that it may continue to
   exclude local inhabitants from areas o f the concession illegally.
   Everbright regards local people's resin collection activities as being in conflict with its own interests.
   The company says that it will not cut resin trees that are currently tapped; however it will log those that
   it perceivesto be unusedor no longer (resin) productive (p.79).
   Meanwhile, it does not excise resin-producing trees from calculations o f its annual allowable cut.

SamraongWood SFMP:
   The company admits it has no expertise (p. 8)
   According to the plan, the company will only allow people to collect non-timber forest products for
   household use (p.22). Such a restriction would be illegal.

TPP company SFMP:
   The company plans a 46,700 ha plantation of acacia (p. 1, p. 20). Creation o f such a plantation would
   necessitateclear-cutting o fthe natural forest on a vast scale, which would be againstthe law.
   TPP has plansto log deciduous forest (p. 21); a forest type generally regarded as too ecologically
   fragile to withstand commercial-scale harvesting.

Timas ResourcesSFMP:
   Timas Resources intends to create anNTFP collection zone during the compartment (five year) level
   planning process (section 2.7). This suggests illegal prevention o f NTFP collection in other areas.
   The company regards large-scaleresin tapping as illegal (Section 3).
   The plan argues that the company should be given the rights to harvest/control NTFPs (Section 3).
   This is in conflict with the Forestry Law.



                                                                                                            47

2.13 Old Log Transportation

Aside from assisting companies intheir production o f managementplans andthen
reviewing them, a consistent focus o fthe FCMCPP's activities has been planningthe
transportation o f stockpiles o f old logs. These logs constitute residual stocks that the
companies were unable to move before the Government's introduction o f a definitive ban
on log transports inMay 2002.

The ban on log transports followed the impositiono f a ban on cutting effective from
January 2002. These two suspension orders were intended to compel the companies to
actually produce the management plans and ESIAsthat they had all failed to submit by
the original deadline o f 30 September 2001.

An unknownbutevidently significant proportiono fthe timber inthe remaining log
stockpiles was cut illegally. This includes logs from Samraong Wood's 2001 harvest,
around 16% o f which the company admitted comprised trees that people were tapping for
resin.'27 Logs cut by Colexim Enterprisesubcontractors fall into the same category -
many o f these were resin-producing trees beingtapped by local villagers.

The reasons for the companies' subsequent efforts to have the transportation ban lifted
are clear enough. Inthe first instance, transporting the logs would enable them to
continue processing operations at their factories and reduce the pressure caused by the
cutting ban.'28 Secondly, past practice has shown that retrieval o f old logs i s one o f the
most effective ways o f circumventing cutting bans in Cambodia.

`Old log collection' was the device most commonly used by illegal loggers duringthe
late 1990s. Under this system, concessionaires, military commanders and others would
claim to have discovered quantities o f old logs inthe forest and request official
permission to collect them. Upon receiving approval, they would log new areas and then
extract the fresh-cut logs, claiming that they were `old'. In 1998, a report commissioned
by the World Bank estimated that illegal `old log collection' accounted for more than
90% o f logging in Cambodia in 1997. Recognising the scale o f the problem, Prime
MinisterHunSen bannedthe issuingo f `old logcollection' permits inJanuary 1999.
This has not stopped loggers from continuing to use `old log collection' as a pretext for
illegal felling, often with the connivance o f local government and the Forest
Administration.

While the motivations o f the companies are clear enough, the same cannot be said o f the
World Bank, which has made several attempts over the past three years to overturn the
logtransport ban and facilitate shipmento f the logs. Ina letter to the Director o f the
Forest Administration sent inOctober 2002, the FCMCPP task manager acknowledged
that "any revision of the currentprohibition on log transport risks abuse andfiaud and


   Global Witness, `DeforestationWithout Limits', 2002, p. 17.
   This is acknowledged inColexim's letter entitled `Proposalfor Transportationof 2,812 RoundLogs
equivalentto 7,649.334 cu.m. from Tumring to Colexim mill.' addressed to Director General ofthe Forest
Administration Ty Sokhun, 16May 2003.


                                                                                                    48

contributing to illegal                 butthen went on to argue the case for precisely this
course o f action.

Given the risksthat the task manager himself highlightedand the fact that the prime
beneficiaries o f renewedtransportation would be logging companies yet to produce
acceptable SFMPs and ESIAs, this course o f action would seem impossible tojustify.
Two other factors make the Bank's proposal all the more extraordinary. Firstly, the task
manager floated the ideajust days after he received evidence that some o f the same
concessionaireswere involved ina high-level corruption scandal. This scheme (detailed
insection 2.5) concernedthe misappropriationofroyalties that the companies owedto
the government on the same logs the Bank was now proposing be tran~ported.'~'

Secondly, as the Bank was equally well aware, some o f the concessionaires' stockpiles
contained large numbers o f resin trees that they had effectively stolen from Cambodian
villagers. Inhis letter to Ty Sokhun, the task manager noted that

 "In view of the weak controls and lack of supervision at the time of harvest, Government
needs to give serious consideration to thepossibility that some of these logs were
illegallyfelled. Therefore a substantial burden ofproof should beplaced on anyparty
claimingpossession and seekingpermission to transport. Applicants shouldprovide
clear and compelling documentaryevidencethat harvests were conductedinplaces and
manners authorizedby Governmentand that all royalties,fees and applicableJines and
penalties have beenpaid infull to the National Treasury,          ""'
This approach has not beenfollowed by either the task manager or the FCMCPP,
however. Inthe first half o f 2003, the project, at the behest o f the Bank, commissioned a
plan for regulating the transportation o f logs felled by Colexim Enterpriseand stockpiled
inTumringcommune inKompong Thom. Itdid so inresponseto representationsfrom
the company:

 "Facingall these difficulties (associatedwith the cutting and log transport ban), Colexim
has met withMr. WilliamMagrath, Senior Economist, WorldBank TaskManager, Forest
ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project, to inform of logs remain unprotect in
TumringRubber Plantation and thoseproblems as mentionedearlier. Immediately after
receiving those reports, Mr. WilliamMagrath and his colleague,Mr Matti Raisanen
(FCMCPP consultant)and the DFW (ForestAdministration) staff visited those logs. He




     Letter from William Magrath, Task Managerofthe FCMCPPto Ty Sokhun, Director General, Forest
Administration, 3, October 2002.
I 3 OThis evidence, summarisedinsection 2.5 above, was presentedto FCMCPPtask manager William
Magrathand MarkWilson, headofRural Development and Natural ResourceSector Unit, EastAsia and
Pacific Regionby Global Witness in September2002.
13'  Letter from William Magrath, Task Managerofthe FCMCPPto Ty Sokhun, Director General, Forest
Administration,3 October 2002.


                                                                                                49

recommended that Coleximshouldprepare a log transportproposal asper the
attachment to this letter. "132

Ontheir visit to the site, the task manager and FCMCPP consultant evidently made little
effort to ascertain the legal origin o f the timber. Hadthey done so, they would have
noticedthat many, ifnot most o f the logs had visible resin-tapping holes cut into them -
showing clearly that the trees had been cut illegally. Ifthe task manager and the
consultant had any doubts about legality, these did not deter them from encouraging
Colexim to develop plans for extracting the wood to its factory.

On the advice of the task manager, the FCMCPP consultant proceeded to draft a proposal
for controllingthe proposed log transportation. This document makes no reference at all
to the legal origin o f the logs or the question o f whether or not the company hadpaid due
r0ya1ties.l~~Reflectingits own evident interest inseeing the operation proceed, the
World Bank office inPhnomPenhthen circulated copies o f the monitoringplan, together
with Colexim's own voluminous justification for the scheme.

The proposed transportation was shelved following strong written expressions o f
disapproval sent by the international donor Working Group on Natural Resource
Management (WGNRM) to the Cambodian authorities:

1.       "Theproposed log transport can not be separatedpom the origin of the logs.
Our understandingof the developmentof the TumringRubber Plantation is very
troubling... communitieshave been displacedand lost their established livelihoods... Our
critical concern is that any authorized log movement should not create an opportunityfor

reason that the Working Group urged in 2002...thepresent suspensionof log
transport of new illegal logging or transport of illegallyfelled timber. It wasfor this

transport.
             J~~




2.       "As we indicated in our earlier letter, we also see the environmental aspects
(erosion) as well as the social issues of the Tumringproject as closely linked with the
wisdom of advancingon the controlled transport and sale of logs@om theproject site.
Even with the clarijkations youprovide, we still can not endorse the movement of these
logs.r7135




13*Letter from Colexim to Director Generalofthe Forest Administration Ty Sokhun, entitled `Proposal for
Transportationo f 2,812 RoundLogs equivalentto 7,649.334 cum. from Tumring to Colexim mill.', 16
May 2003.
133`World Bank-financedForestConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project-Guidelines for
Control and Monitoring ofLog TransportationI Case Study:Log Transportation from Tumring Rubber
Tree PlantationAreato Colexim Company Sawmill', April 2003.
`34Letter from Working Group on Natural ResourceManagementto Ministerfor Agriculture, Forestryand
Fisheries, 30 June 2003.
   Letter from Working Group onNatural ResourceManagement to Ministerfor Agriculture, Forestryand
Fisheries, 28 October 2003.


                                                                                                     50

World Bank, FCMCPP and Forest Administration staff continued to discuss means o f
overturning the transportation moratorium throughout 2004. 136 Written communications
from Global Witness in July and December 2004 requestingthat the Bank explain its
involvement have so far met with no response.'37

InDecember 2004 Bank staffwere instrumental inweakeningthe logtransport
moratorium inthe course o f negotiations between donors and government over next steps
inthe forest reformprocess. InmidJanuary 2005 government officials announcedthat
they were on the point o f resumingold log transportation and would be engaging the
services o f consultants to the FCMCPP to facilitate the process.'38 At the time o f writing
the full details o f the proposed operation have not been announced. However they appear
to be a product o f the Bank's continued lobbying to allow shipment o f timber by Colexim
and other concessionaires.

As already noted, the cutting and logtransport moratoria were originally implemented
with the express intent o f compelling the logging companies to present new SFMPs and
ESIAs. However, the World Bank has demonstrated itself quietly determinedto overturn
the transportation moratorium inparticular. The only plausible motivation for this
appears to be its need to keep the concessionaires operating inorder to achieve its project
objective.

The outcomes o f these activities are harmful intwo ways. Firstly, the Bank is weakening
one o f the few available points o f leverage over the companies. It i s the suspension o f
their activities that has forced the concessionaires even to pay lip service to such
requirements as community consultation and environmental and social impact
assessment. Ifthe Bank succeeds ingetting the companies operational once again before
the planning process i s complete, the concessionaires will make even less effort to
address such issues.

Perhaps even more disturbingis the Bank's efforts to help logging companies to profit
from serious forest crime, the victims o f which were poor villagers. The Bank thus
stands on the verge o f becoming an accessory to criminal activities. The fact that it
should embark on such a course o f action i s one o f the most troubling aspects o f the
entire history o f the FCMCPP.




'36e-mail from SGS (independentmonitor ofthe forest sector and consultants to FCMCPP)to Global
Witness, 19July 2004.
'37Letter from Global Witness to Peter Jipp, Task Managerofthe FCMCPP, 22 July 2004, e-mail from
Global Witness to IanPorter, World Bank Country Director, Cambodia, December 2004.
13'CambodiaDaily, 'GovernmentCuts Back Moratorium on TransportingOld Timber' 18 January 2005.


                                                                                                51

2.14 Outcomes of the FCMCPP

The FCMCPP's outcomes have been shaped by its conceptual weaknesses -the World
Bank's idea that the incumbent logging concessionaires could be reformed -together
with flawed implementationthat persistently lowered the standards o fplanning and
performance that Cambodia can expect o f the companies. These factors have combined
to produce a situation inwhich companies whose track records should have excluded
them from consideration as managers o f Cambodia's forests are poised to continue
logging for another twenty five years (or inpractice the much shorter time that it will take
for them to exhaust their concessions completely). IfCambodia's concession system
continues, the precedent that the FCMCPP has set in endorsing a truly dismal quality o f
concession planningwill block efforts to achieve acceptable standards for many years to
come. Unfortunately, the FCMCPP designer's expectationthat the SFMPs and ESIAs
which the project developed will be held up as models for other management plans i s
likely to be fulfilled.'39

Inthe meantime, recent independent studies ofCambodia's forest sector indicate that the
Bank has not wrought any changes inCambodia's forest sector governance that would
compel the concessionaires to behave any differently from the way that they did inthe
past.'40 There are neither incentives nor `controls sufficient to force the companies to
obey the law and respect the rights o f ordinary Cambodians. They can therefore be
expected to operate in line with past practice; inother words illegal logging and abuse o f
local inhabitants. This much is apparent from management plans that the FCMCPP has
endorsed, which indicate quite clearly the intentionby some companies to log resin trees
illegally and exclude communities from areas o f forest. As inthe past, this will cause
serious material harm to ordinary Cambodians who live inand around concessions.


to strengthenthe legalframework and encouragecommercial timber operations to adopt
 "To date, the main response topoor loggingpractices (by the concessionaires)has been

sustainableforest management (SFM). As argued here and elsewhere, this strategy
appears doomed tofailure due to the tremendousfinancial incentivesto avoid
SFM...there shouldbe no illusions of "win-win SFMschemesunder which logging
companiesmanageforest for a modest return whilefulJilling their responsibilities to
village welfare and conservation. Rather, a "cut and run logging scenario should be
assumed where commercial logging is allowed, unless regulation and enforcement (and
incentivesfor them) improve dramatically. 'J"


139  FCMCPP Project Appraisal Document, June 2000, p.15: "The concession management and operations
plans developedwith the aid of technical assistance will serve as modelsfor similar plans to be developed,
subsequently, in all operating concessions. As such they will serve as standards by which the acceptability
of suchplans will bejudged (by Forest Administration)".
I 4 OIndependentForest Sector Review, `The Forest Sector in Cambodia', 2004; Bruce McKenney, Yim
Chea, Prom Tola and Tom Evans, `Focusing on Cambodia's High Value Forests:Livelihoods and
Management', Cambodian Development ResourceInstituteand Wildlife Conservation Society; November
2004.
14'  Bruce McKenney, Yim Chea, Prom Tola and Tom Evans, `Focusing on Cambodia's HighValue
Forests: Livelihoods and Management'; Cambodian Development ResourceInstituteand Wildlife
Conservation Society, November 2004, p.92


                                                                                                        52

The impact of the FCMCPP has not only been to help maintain the concession system,
however. Thanks to the World Bank's project, those six companies that it has
recommended for approval are now in a stronger positionthan before the project
commenced. As argued above, it is highly unlikelythat any o f the companies would
have cleared the strategic level planning stage without assistance provided by the
FCMCPP; both interms o f its technical advice on drafting plans and its overly
accommodating approach to assessing them.

As the Bank is well aware but keen to deny, its endorsement of, or even associationwith,
particular institutions or policies is a political commodity. Cambodia's forest sector i s no
exception. Examples include the debates on the draft Forest Law held inthe Cambodia's
National Assembly in2002, as well as use o f the FCMCPP forest cover survey as a
political prop in July 2003.

Inthe first ofthese cases, MinisterofAgriculture, Forestry andFisheries Chan Sarun
rebuffed opposition MPs' criticisms o f the Forestry Law with the argument that they had
no rightto question a law drafted with input from World Bank experts. The following
year, Prime Minister Hun Sen citedthe FCMCPP's flawed forest cover survey in election
campaign speeches as evidence o f hisjudicious preservation o f the country's forests.

Itshould therefore come as no surprise when concessioncompanies use FCMCPP
approval o f their management plans as a means o f deflecting questions concerning their
legitimacy and past and future performance. For the next 25 years, or untilthey have
logged out their concessions, Cherndar Plywood, Colexim Enterprise, Everbright CIG
Wood, Timas Resources, TPP and Samraong will present themselves as the companies
whose logging operations have the endorsement o f the World Bank.

This process is already underway. The following passages come from a letter that
Cherndar Plywood, which holds the chairmanship o f the CTIA, sent to Forest
Administration Director General Ty Sokhun in September 2004. The letter i s an
extended attack onNGOsthat have criticised the concession system, and ajustification o f
Cherndar Plywood's activities:

"In every meeting during the consultations, the company hasprovidedfull opportunity in
apee andfair manner to the community representatives and villagers in the community
to raise all theirproblems, suggestion, thoughts and recommendations and all the issues
wereproperly solved in accordance with the effective laws and regulations. Before the
meeting closed in each consultation centre, the consultation were going on until the
participating community villagers told the company they had no any moreproblem,
suggestiodcomment or doubt. The result of the consultation has now also been officially
recognized by the FA/World Bank (WB) expert team.       I'



"FMP/ESLA has been strictly, thoroughly and carefully reviewed, checked and assessed
by the experts of the WorldBanWForest Administration s technical review team, who are
professional, disciplined to code of ethic and conduct, responsible and experienced. The



                                                                                           53

review and assessmentby these experts were made in serious details, spending times of
twoyears andsome US$5million. This review team were supported with suflcient
educated/qualiJied staff@ such allfields of forester, environmentalist, ecologist,
biologist, communityforest specialist, natural scientist, sociologist, economist etc.) and
sophisticatedtools in their works, including long-time inspection/checking tasks in the
field. This work,for people who has no or less knowledge of forest management
techniques and experiences or any independent researchhtudy with lack of the above
stafl could not be done while the claim by these accusers or independent review cannot
be technicallyjustijied and supported. The criticism against the WorldBanWForest
Administration expert team 's reviewedplans is an intentional contempt against,
disparagement against and disrespect of the internationally and the Royal Government of
Cambodia-recognisedprofessional technicians/scientists. 1'142

The message i s clear - critics have no rightto question the activities o f Cherndar
Plywoodnow that it has the support o f World Bank specialists.

The World Bank has strengthenedthe position o f Cherndar Plywood and the over five
companies, even as its project has helped them evade legal and regulatory standards.
This will make it evenharder for rural Cambodians to challenge the companies' control
or assert their rights inthe face o f the future abuses that will inevitably follow. Acts and
 omissions by the FCMCPP are set to cause material harm to forest dependent
 communities living within or inproximity to the six concessions. It i s ironic that these
 communities represent those same sections o f rural Cambodian society that World Bank
 claims it i s most committed to helping.



 2.15 The Without-ProjectSituation

 What would have happened ifthe FCMCPP had never been commissioned?

 Cambodia's forestry reform process began in 1999with the RGC undertaking a major
 crackdown against illegal logging operators, closing hundreds o f medium-size sawmills,
 drastically increasing the timber royalty rate and cancelling at least nine concession
 agreements. Following on from the first World Bank fundedforestry project in 1998,the
 2000 ADB concession reviewproduced an action programme to advance the reform
 process. This programme encompassed the immediate cancellation o f another three
 concessions, preparation o f proper management plans, a reduction inor suspension o f
 logging activities, a new model concession agreement and other measures.

 Inits assessmentofthe loggingcompanies' legal and contractual compliance, the ADB
 review identifiedgrounds for terminating all o f the concessions. It also argued that




 14'Letter dated22 September2004 from LuChuChang, ChiefExecutive of Chemdar Plywoodandheadof
 the CTIA addressedto Ty Sokhun, Director-GeneralofForestAdministration.


                                                                                            54

 "The alarming state theforest estate is now in, due to extremelypoor management has
given a new perspective, and shown that no serious attempt has been made to manage the
concessions sustainably. In the opinion of the legal experts, this constitutes a violation of
theprime objective of the concession agreementswhich was sustainable economic
growth based on sustainableforest management... ...The absence of a specijk law or
existence of apoorly written agreement should notprevent the government protecting its
resources that belong to the nation as a whole, even ifsuch action may entail adverse
financial consequences. 143

However, through excessive caution or an error o fjudgement, the ADB review accepted
the World Bank's arguments that the RGCwould be exposed to serious legal risk ifit
unilaterally terminated concessionaires' contracts.144 The review's key recommendation
that the companies instead be forced to adhere to a strict restructuring and evaluation
process was clearly conceived as a less risky means o f achieving a similar outcome.

With respect to the managementplans, the ADB-fundedreviewnoted that

 `Yssumingthat the concessionaires start aprogramfor preparing concession
managementplans as early as October 2000, thejeldworkfor these can be completed by
the end of May 2001. The new managementplans can then be prepared, reviewed and
approved and the new agreements signed by allparties before the beginning of the
logging season in November 2001. '1145

The ADB- funded review presentedthe conclusions not only o f the team that undertook
the study, but also the recommendations o f a panel o f experts. On the issue o f the
management plans, the panel o f experts advocated

 "time-bound milestonesfor the development of sustainableforest management
plans...the maximum time spanfor completion of the managementplans should be one
year... Concessionaires who do not meet any single item in the schedule ofprescribed
 milestones in the development of their FMPs (Forest Management Plans) should have
 their concessions cancelled within one month after receiving DFW (Forest
Administration's) letter of notification of failure to meet the milestone, if the milestone
 cannot be satisfactorily shown to have been met.146

Adhering to the action programme's prescribed timeline, in October 2000, the
 concessionaires and the Cambodian government did in fact agree such a set o f
 milestones. Ina letter to the World Bank, "CTLA members agreed that acceptable


 143Asian DevelopmentBank SustainableForestManagementProject, `CambodianForestConcession
Review Report', April 2000 p.32
 144Asian DevelopmentBank SustainableForestManagementProject, `CambodianForestConcession
ReviewReport', April 2000 p.35. As already noted, this risk has never materialised,eventhoughthe
 governmenthas cancelled numerous concessioncontracts over the years.
 145AsianDevelopmentBank SustainableForestManagementProject, `CambodianForest Concession
ReviewReport', April 2000 p.39.
 146AsianDevelopmentBank SustainableForestManagementProject, `CambodianForest Concession
ReviewReport', April 2000 Appendix 11.


                                                                                                 55

SFMPs must be inplace by the end of November 2001 or else the defaulting
concessionaireswillface cancellation of the contract".147 The Forest Administration
subsequently announcedthat this deadline had been moved forward to 30 September
2001

Inthe event, none of the companies metthe 2001 deadline. Rather than cancellingtheir
concessions, however, the government merely suspended the companies' activitie~.'~~
Several factors explain this. Close familial and business relationships between
concession operators and high-ranking officials as well as entrenched corruption gave
some elements inthe government a strong stake inthe companies' activities, for example.

Another significant factor, however, was the stance o f the World Bank and the focus o f
its project. As outlined above, the Bank had its own stake in continued concession
operations; which were a prerequisite for successful implementation o f the FCMCPP.
Thus inSeptember 2001 itwas FCMCPP consultantswho played a leadingrole inefforts
to persuade the donor Working Group on Natural Resource Management that the
concessionaires had already made substantive progress towards the completion o f their
plans. World Bank staff, meanwhile, sought to convince donors and other stakeholders
that the deadline for submission o f plans should be allowedto slip.'*'

Aside from the lobbyingby Bank and FCMCPP staff for a stay o f execution for the
concessionaires, the very existence o f its project provided a convenient excuse for the
RGC to treat the companies with unwarranted indulgence. Through the FCMCPP, the
Bank had promisedto reform the concessionaires via its own set o f prescriptions. These
consisted less o f "time-bound milestones than a package o f assistance, advice and
                                                 "
elastic guidelines. As a result, the RGC was never forced to choose between either
terminating defaulting companies or having its professed attempts at reform exposed as
hollow and insincere. Rather than holding the companies to account, it could always
point to the World Bank's ongoing efforts to reform them as ajustification for a more
lenient approach. The FCMCPP provided a useful alibi.

The overall impact o f the Bank's intervention was to weaken significantly the momentum
o f the forest sector reform process. The ADB review's recommendation that the
concessionaires undergo a stringentrestructuring process provided a means o f weeding
out those that had already caused serious material harm. However, this approach was
comprehensively undermined by the FCMCPP, which set out with the express intention


14'Letter to William Magrath, task manager for FCMCPPfrom Henry Kong, Chairmanofthe CTIA, Ty
Sokhun, Director General ofForestAdministration and Andrew McNaughton,Facilitator (contracted by
the UKDepartmentfor InternationalDevelopment), 18 October 2000.
14'See referenceto this changeddate in Departmentof Forestry and Wildlife (Forest Administration),
`Progress Reporton ForestryReform-Presented at the Meeting ofthe Donor Working Group on Natural
ResourcesManagement', 27 September2001.
14'The CambodiaDaily, 31 December 2001 `Six CompaniesReject Logging Moratorium': The reactionof
six ofthe companiesto the imposition of the moratoriumwas to threatento sue the government; illustrating
how little interest the industryhad infollowing the restructuringprocess.
150See, for example, minutesof meetingbetweenJon BuckrellandRosie Sharpe (Global Witness) with
Steven Schonberger, 9 August 2001.


                                                                                                     56

o f helping the companies to clear this new set o f hurdles. Indeed, without the project's
assistance, advice and willingness to bendthe rules infavour o f the concessionaires, it i s
highly unlikely that any would have stood a chance o fpassingthrough the strategic level
planning process. Moreover, by positioning itself as both assistant to and arbiter o f the
companies' planningefforts, the FCMCPP excluded a more neutral entity from taking the
lead inevaluating the plans.

In 1999-2000there was emerging agreement betweenreformists inthe RGCand
Cambodia's international donors community that the forest concession system had
proven disastrous as a management tool inthe Cambodian context. However, inputting
its weight behind the same failed management system and operators, the Bank severely
dilutedthe strong medicine that the ADB review advocated and which the government
had shown a willingness to accept. The Bank's agenda obstructed the development o f
alternative management models such as community forestry and proved a source o f
disunity within the international donor ~ommunity.'~'This inturn resulted inthe donors
sendingmixed messagesto the government and underminedthe positiono f more reform-
minded officials.

Inthe absence ofthe FCMCPP, the forest sector reformprocess would have developed
quite differently:

         The RGC would have felt obliged to take a much tougher line towards the
         concessionaires rather than falling back on the pretence that they could be
         reformed.
         The rapidtermination o f most or all o f the concessions would have forced the
         government, donors, NGOs and other stakeholders to focus on developing
         alternative management systems capable o f contributing to poverty reduction.
         There would have been far more scope for other donor-led interventions inthe
         forest sector in support o f such efforts.
         The donor-RGC forest reform agenda would have maintained much greater
         coherence and momentum.




   The ADB offered the Cambodian government loan-backed technical assistance to help develop not only
industrial, but also community forestry models as part of its SustainableForest Management Project. In
2000, however, the year that the FCMCPP began, the Cambodian government informed the ADB that
further assistance in forest sector development was not required.


                                                                                                      57

SECTION 3: WORLD BANK BREACHESOF OPERATING POLICIES'52


Both the design and execution o f the Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot
Project have contravened World Bank operational policies. This section examines the
policies breached and the material harm that this is set to cause. The overall consequence
has been to allow the commissioning and implementation o f a project that has endorsed
concessionaireswhose activities are harmful to forest dependent communities. Put
another way, ifthe operational policies had been observed, the FCMCPP would never
have been conceived inthe way that it was. Secondly, the project would not have been
implemented with the bias towards the concession companies that it has consistently
exhibited.


3.1 OperationalPolicy OP 4.01-EnvironmentalAssessment

The World Bank has breachedthis operationalpolicy inrelation to its classification of the
Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project. Inaddition, the Bank has
failed to observe the operational policy's requirements for environmental assessment o f
the project's likely impacts. Duringits implementationphase, meanwhile, the Bank,
through the FCMCPP has contravened those provisions relating to public consultation
and disclosure.


Categorisation of theproject

OP 4.01 Section 1:

 "The Bank requires environmental assessment (EA) of projectsproposedfor Bank
financing to help ensure that they are environmentally sound and sustainable, and thus to
improve decisionmaking.''

The operational policy classes projects into four categories. Inthe case o f the Forest
Concession Management and Control Pilot Project, those o f relevance are the highestrisk
categories A and B.

A project should be classed as Category A if

 "it is likely to have signijkant adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse,
or unprecedented. Theseimpacts may affect an area broader than the sites orfacilities
subject tophysical worb. CategoryA project examines theproject's potential negative
andpositive environmental impacts, compares them with those of feasible alternatives


15*The World Bank's OperationalManual describes operationalpolicies as "short, focused statementsthat
follow from the Bank's Articles of Agreement, the general conditions, and policies approvedby the Board,
OPs establishthe parametersfor the conduct of operations; they also describethe circumstancesunder
which exceptions to policy are admissible and spell out who authorizes exceptions."


                                                                                                     58

 (including the `withoutproject 'situation), and recommends any measures needed to
prevent, minimize, mitigate or compensatefor adverse impacts and improve
environmentalperformance. For a Category A project, the borrower is responsiblefor
preparing a report, normally an EIA (environmental impact assessment)      'I




By contrast

 "Aproposedproject is classijied as Category B if itspotential adverse environmental
impacts on humanpopulations or environmentally important areas - including wetlands,
forests, grasslands, and other natural habitats -are less adverse than those of Category
A projects. These impacts are site-specijic;few ifany of them are irreversible; and in
most cases mitigatory measures can be designed more readily thanfor CategoryA
projects. Thescope of EAfor a Category Bproject may varyfiom project toproject, but
it is narrower than that of Category A EA. Like CategoryA EA, it examines theproject's
potential negative andpositive environmental impacts and recommends any measures
needed toprevent, minimize, mitigate or compensatefor adverse impacts and improve
environmentalperformance. Thefindings and results of Category B EA are described in
theproject documentation ProjectAppraisal Document and Project Information
Document. ''

The World Bank erroneously categorised the FCMCPP project as Category B, despite the
fact that the concession system and companies that the project supports have already
comprehensively demonstratedhow they have "significant adverse environmental
impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented". These include not only the
immediate degradation caused by industrial-scale logging, but also secondary impacts
such as damage to watersheds. All available evidence suggests that the impacts o f future
concessionaire logging operations will be equally serious.

Moreover, the logging concessions undoubtedly do have "impacts (that) may affect an
area broader than the sites orfacilities subject tophysical works". The impacts o f
concessionaires' activities affect a significant portion o f Cambodia's forest reserve and
large populations who inhabit or depend on it for their livelihoods. Inthis sense, it i s
difficult to see how the FCMCPP's impacts could be construed as "site-specijk". In
addition, evidence from studies o f the impacts o f industrial logging inother tropical
countries would suggest that the impacts o f concessionaires' logging on Cambodia's
forests are likely to be "irreversible".

World Bank staff have defended their classification o f the project with two main
arguments:


     0  The FCMCPP was initially conceived as a `pilot' and that it was only once
        activities were underway and the project extended to all concessions, that the
        likely impacts became so wide-ranging.




                                                                                          59

    0     The FCMCPP i s policy oriented, it does not involve construction or physical
          operations and it does not leave a physical imprint.'53

The first claim is unsatisfactory for two main reasons. Inthe first instance, all forest
concessions in Cambodia cover large areas, typically measuringbetween 100,000 and
200,000 hectares and insome cases over 300,000. Evenifthe project had initially set out
to work with only a few concessionaires, the area o f forest and number o f communities
affected would nonetheless have been substantial and certainly more than "site-speciJic ".
Moreover, this line o f argument does not explain why the Bank did not reassess and
reclassify the project once its scope had expanded.

The second contention i s likewise highly questionable. The thrust o f the FCMCPPhas
been helpingthe concession companies to prepare for renewed logging operations that
will leave a very clear physical imprint. That the Bank's role inthis is more instigator
than executor does not divest it o f responsibility. Furthermore, the imprint left by the
FCMCPP will be more extensive than those o f many project interventions that involve
site-based construction operations.

Inaddition, as the FCMCPPProject Appraisal Document argues:

 "The concession management and operationsplans developed with the aid of technical
assistance will serve as modelsfor similar plans to be developed, subsequently, in all
operating concessions. As such they will also serve as standards by which the
acceptability of suchplans will bejudged by (the Forest Administration). ''

Ifthe goals of the PADare realised, theFCMCPP stands to have anenvironmental
 impact not only across all existing forest concessions but any future concessions that the
government may allocate.


Environmental Assessment of FCMCPP impacts

The World Bank's erroneous classification o f the project's impacts as Category B has
provided thejustification for a level o f environmental assessmentthat might charitably be
described as minimal. Bank staff did not produce the kind o f EIA report called for inthe
case o f Category A projects. Infact the level o f assessment was so low that it did not
even conform to Category B standards. As noted above, the OP requires that "the
jndings and results of CategoryB EA are described in theproject documentationProject
Appraisal Document and Project Information Document."


 Is3
   MeetingbetweenWorld BankstaffmembersWilliam Magrath(FCMCPP Task Manager 2000-2004),
PeterJipp (FCMCPPTask Manager2004-), StephenMink and StevenSchonberger;with Suwanna
Gauntlett andDelphineVann Roeof Wildaid; MikeDavis andHannahThompsonof GlobalWitness,
PhnomPenh, 20 April 2004.
MeetinginPhnomPenhbetweenMikeDavisof GlobalWitness, togetherwith GlennMorgan,Task
Managerofthe World Bank BiodiversityandProtectedArea ManagementProject(BPAMP) andKlaus
 Schmitt, Senior TechnicalAdvisorto BPAMP; May 2004.



                                                                                          60

The Project Appraisal Document for the FCMCPP contains a single paragraph on
environmental assessment:

"Concessionoperationspresent signijkant impacts on the environment. Theregulatory
regime to bepiloted under theproject seeks to anticipate and manage these impacts by
requiring attention throughout theplanning and operational cycle. Thesystem is
intendedto ensure that at the large scaleplanning levelparticularly fiagile areas are
excludedfiom concessions operationsand that harvestingoperations are conductedto
minimize adverse impacts at the site or (coupe'level. Theproposed system will be
synchronizedwith the national environmentalimpact assessment requirements.''

This passage suggests that the Bank has chosen not to address environmental impacts at
the pre-project planning stage andwill insteaddeal withthem duringthe implementation
phase. This impression is reinforced by comments made by World Bank representatives
inApril 2004. Askedto explain the EAprocess onthe project, Bank personnel
responded inthe following terms:

    0    the FCMCPP was fundedby a learning and innovation loan and designed to be
         process oriented. Therefore, environmental issues could be addressed duringthe
         course o f the project rather than before omm men cement.''^

Giventhat OP 4.01 is primarily concernedwith prior assessment o f potential risks, a lack
o f prior EA itself constitutes a breach o f this operating policy. Furthermore, the Bank
representativeswere unable show any such assessment having been undertaken during
the project's first four years, aside from the ESIA work done inconjunction with the
concessionaires themselves, the standards o f which fall well short o f the requirements o f
OP 4.01.

Bank staff associated with the FCMCPP are evidently keen to pushthe idea that because
the FCMCPP was backedby a learning and innovationloan, it was therefore not bound
by Bank operational policies. This argument is not born out by OP 4.01 (or other
operational policies), which states that the loans and projects that it covers include

 `>projects under adaptable lending -adaptableprogram loans (APLs) and learning and
innovation loans (LILs)"

The rationale for carrying out prior environment assessment as part o f a projectplanning
process i s to safeguard against the initiation o f projects that are likely to cause harm to
the environment and those whose livelihoods dependupon it. Hadproper environmental
assessment beencarried out, it is unlikely that the Bank would have decided to support


   MeetingbetweenWorld Bank staff members William Magrath(FCMCPP Task Manager2000-2004),
Peter Jipp (FCMCPPTask Manager2004-), StephenMink and Steven Schonberger;with Suwanna
GauntlettandDelphineVann RoeofWildaid; MikeDavisandHannahThompson of GlobalWitness,
PhnomPenh, 20 April 2004.



                                                                                             61

the activities o f environmentally destructive companies. The project outcome that stands
to cause most material harm- Bank endorsement o f six o f the concessionaires -can thus
be traced to its failure to comply with this operational policy.


Public Consultation

OP 4.0 1: "For all Category A and Bprojects proposedfor IBRD or IDAfinancing,
during the EAprocess, the borrower consultsproject-affected groups and local
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)about theproject's environmentalaspects and
takes their views into account. "

The Bank has a responsibility for ensuring that this requirement i s met, however, as with
the environmental assessment, it is not clear what consultation, if any, took place before
the project began. What is certain is that the project-affected groups who are requesting
an InspectionPanel investigation, were not amongst those invitedto participate in any
pre-project consultation process.

Bank staff working on the project have contended that compliance with this Operating
Policy has been achievedthrough Bank-supported activities o f the concessionaires
them~e1ves.l~~   This argument is all the more dubious given the kindof public
consultation exercise that the companies have pursued under the auspices o f the
FCMCPP.

The companies failed to consult with communities duringtheir preparation o f the plans
that they submitted in 2002. Subsequently, when they were compelled to do so in late
2002 and early 2003, these were o f a poor standard, with instances inwhich participants
were subject to intimidation by guards and officials accompanying company
representatives. These flawed consultations have effectively reducedthe scope o f forest
dependent communities to hold the logging concessionaires accountable. As a result,
communities' views have not been acknowledged inplans that companies will use to
justify their operations inCambodia over the next quarter o f a century. At the same time,
concessionaires will claim that they have fulfilled consultation requirements already, and
are therefore under no obligation to listen to concerns that affected communities might
raise inthe future.

Here it i s worth referring again to the arguments made by the head o f the Cambodian
Timber IndustryAssociation inhis letter to Ty Sokhun o f 22 September 2004:

 "In every meeting during the consultations, the company hasprovidedfull opportunity in
afFee andfair manner to the community representatives and villagers in the community
to raise all their problems, suggestion, thoughts and recommendations and all the issues

~




 Is'Meeting betweenWorld Bank staff members William Magrath (FCMCPP Task Manager 2000-2004),
Peter Jipp (FCMCPP Task Manager 2004-), Stephen Mink and Steven Schonberger;with Suwanna
Gauntlett andDelphine Vann Roe of Wildaid; MikeDavis and Hannah Thompson of Global Witness,
Phnom Penh, 20 April 2004.


                                                                                           62

wereproperly solved in accordancewith the effective laws and regulations. Before the
meeting closed in each consultation centre, the consultationweregoing on until the
participating community villagers told the company they had no any moreproblem,
suggestion/commentor doubt. Theresult of the consultationhas now also been officially
recognizedby the FMWorld Bank (WB) expert team."

Inthis context flawed consultation is arguably more damagingthan no consultation at all.

Perhaps the most serious violation o f this provision o f OP 4.01 concerns the intimidation
and violence used against community representatives inDecember 2002. Inthis instance
the FCMCPP Project Director is alleged to have made threats against villagers seeking a
consultation session.

One can surmise that failure to comply with this part o fthe operating policy has hadthe
following adverse impacts:

    a   Direct harm-consultations marred by attempts by companies and officials to
         intimidate weaken an important accountability mechanism designed to protect the
         interests o f local inhabitants.
    a   Imminentharm- such exercises enable concessionaires to claim to have fulfilled
         consultation requirements without having to take account o f the views o f local
        people. This strengthens their ability to move forward through the planning
        process and resume logging as before.


Disclosure

Similar issues arise inrelation to the paragraphs o f OP 4.01 that deal with disclosure:

OP 4.0 1: "For meanindul consultationsbetween the borrower andproject-affected
groups and local NGOs on all Category A and Bprojectsproposedfor IBRD or IDA
financing, the borrower provides relevant material in a timely mannerprior to
consultation and in aform and language that are understandableand accessibleto the
groups being consulted.     I'



The World Bank contravened this policy in its failure to ensure that the borrower (Forest
Administration) providedthe concessionaires' SFMPs and ESIAs to community
representatives inNovember 2002. In fact, direct responsibility for this breach lay with
the Bank's own office in Phnom Penh. Having agreed to assist with the disclosure
process, Bank representatives then informed communities that they would be unable to
provide them with copies o f the plans.

The negative impacts o f this breach were two-fold. Inthe first instance those groups
most directly affected by the concessionaires' activities were denied important

~



   Letter from Lu ChuChang, ChiefExecutiveof CherndarPlywoodandheadof the CambodiaTimber
IndustryAssociationto Ty Sokhun,Director-GeneralofForestAdministration, 22 September2004.


                                                                                          63

information about the companies planned future operations. Secondly, a precedent-
setting opportunity to ensure that the Forest Administration observed its legal obligations
to disclose such informationwas lost through the Bank's decision to intercede and take
on the government's legal responsibility.


Monitoring of Implementation

OP 4.0 1;Duringproject implementation, the borrower reports on (a) compliancewith
measures agreed with the Bank on the basis of thefindings and results of the EA,
including implementationof any EMP, as set out in theproject documents; (b) the status
of the mitigatory measures; and (e) thefindings of monitoringprograms. TheBank bases
supervision of theproject's environmental aspects on thefindings and recommendations
of the EA, including measures set out in the legal agreements, any EMP (environmental
managementplan), and other project documents.

Given that little or no environment assessment was undertaken, this aspect o f the
operational policy also appears to have been breached by the World Bank.



3.2 Operational Directive OP 4.20 -Indigenous Peoples

Cambodia's indigenous people, notably the Kouy minority (who are represented among
those who have drafted letters to the InspectionPanel), are directly affected by the
logging concessionaires. The main populations o f Kouy and other indigenous groups are
inthe forested north and northeasternparts ofthe country -inother words the same areas
that constitute the heart o f Cambodia's logging concession system. The livelihoods and
culture o f these groups are intrinsically linked with the forests. This makes them
particularly vulnerable to the impacts o f industrial logging operations.

Articles 25-26 o f Cambodia's 2001 Land Law set out the prior claim that indigenous
people have to land on which they practice traditional agriculture. This includes not only
land incurrent use, but also lands held in reserve for these purposes. Article 26 o f the
law states that "Anyprovisions that are contrary to this law are repealed". This would
include any competing claims from logging concession companies, whose contracts were
all issued prior to 2001.

The Bank's approach to engaging with indigenous people is set out inoperational policy
4.20 as follows:

 (` the objective at the centre of this directive is to ensure that indigenouspeoples do not
   ...
suffer adverse effects during the development process, particularly @om Bank-financed
projects, and that they receive culturally compatible social and economic benefits. `(




                                                                                          64

"The Bank'spolicy is that the strategyfor addressing the issuespertaining to indigenous
peoples must be based on the informed participation of the indigenouspeople themselves.
Thus, identifiing localpreferences through direct consultation, incorporation of
indigenous knowledge intoproject approaches, and appropriate early use of experienced
specialists are core activitiesfor anyproject that affects indigenouspeoples and their
rights to natural and economic resources. "


" ... afull range ofpositive actions by the borrower must ensure that indigenouspeople
bene$t@om development investments.

Itis difficult to findany evidence that the World Bank has observedeither the spiritor
the letter o f these requirements inthe case o f the FCMCPP. Discussions on the issue
with Bank staff suggest little, ifany consideration ofthe potential impacts on indigenous
people. This despite the very clear acknowledgement inthe operational policy that
forestry projects are among those most likely to impact on indigenous populations:

 "Issues concerning indigenouspeoples can arise in a variety of sectors that concern the
Bank; those involving,for example, agriculture, road construction,forestry, hydropower,
mining, tourism, education, and the environment should be carefully screened.

The operational policy notes that "Issues concerning indigenouspeoples are commonly
identij?ed through the environmental assessmentor social impact assessmentprocess,
and appropriate measures should be taken under environmental mitigation actions      I'




That the Bank does not appear to have identified any "issues concerning indigenous
people inthe course o f planning or implementingthe FCMCPP may be explained by the
        "
lack o f proper environment assessment described inthe preceding section.

Section 13 o f the operational policy outlines the specific measures that must be taken for
projects that affect indigenous people:

 "For an investmentproject that affects indigenous peoples, the borrower shouldprepare
an indigenouspeoples developmentplan that is consistent with the Bank'spolicy. Any
project that affects indigenouspeoples is expected to include components or provisions
that incorporate such aplan.   "



The detailed list of components required for this plan includes many that are directly
relevant to Cambodia and the impacts o f forest concessions:

 "Particular attention should be given to the rights of indigenous peoples to use and
develop the lands that they occupy, to beprotected against illegal intruders, and to have
access to natural resources (such asforests, wildlife, and water) vital to their subsistence
and reproduction.




                                                                                          65

World Bank staff working on the FCMCPP informed Global Witness in April 2004, that
the Bank deemed that no indigenous people's plan was required.lS7 The reasons they
cited were as follows:

    0    Previous studies on the forest sector commissionedby the World Bank duringthe
         last 1990s examined the social dimensions o f forestry in Cambodia and fed into
        the FCMCPP.
    0    Social impact issues had been mentioned inthe 2000 FCMCPP Project Appraisal
         Document and could be reviewed duringthe lifetime o f the project.
    0    The project had recently recruited a consultant to look at how social impacts
        would be addressed by the concessionaires at the compartment (five year)
        planning level.
    0    One o f the Bank's social science specialists had advised the Bank that the
         concession plans produced under the auspices o f the FCMCPP addressed social
         issues adequately.

Ina separate meeting, meanwhile, a WorldBank official instrumental inreviewingthe
pre-project planningo f the FCMCPP, including matters pertaining to environmental and
social impacts, citedthe difficulty o f anticipating impacts inprocess-oriented projects.lS8

None of these arguments constitute a convincingjustification. The very existence o f an
operational policy specifically addressing indigenous people reflects the World Bank's
own recognition that this issue is distinct from broader questions o f social impacts.
Moreover, even interms o f general social impacts, analysts such as the World Bank's
own staff consultant have consistently dismissed the idea that consideration o f these can
be relegated to the compartment (five year) planning

As suggested above, the argument that the Bank has fulfilled its obligations under this
and other operational policies courtesy o f social impact work contained within the
concessionaires' SFMPs and ESIAs is very difficult to sustain. Here it i s worth referring
to the findings o f the August 2004 GFA Terra Systems assessment o f the six sets o f plans
approved by the FCMCPP. This review produced in depth analyses o f two o f these
(Everbright CIG Wood and Samraong Wood), on which it made the following comments.



Is'Meeting betweenWorld Bank staff membersWilliam Magrath (FCMCPP Task Manager 2000-2004),
Peter Jipp (FCMCPP Task Manager 2004-), StephenMink and Steven Schonberger; with Suwanna
Gauntlett andDelphineVann Roe o f Wildaid; MikeDavis and Hannah Thompson o f Global Witness,
Phnom Penh, 20 April 2004.
Is*Meeting inPhnom Penhbetween MikeDavis o f Global Witness, together with GlennMorgan, Task
Manager ofthe World Bank Biodiversity andProtected Area Management Project (BPAMP) and Klaus
Schmitt, Senior Technical Advisor to BPAMP, May 2004.
   John H.Dick, Staff Consultant to The World Bank, `Comments on the Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment Terms o f Referenceand Workplan for The PreahVihear Concession o f Cambodia Cherndar
Plywood, as preparedby the Cambodian Timber Industry Association, April 2001', July 2001 -note that
the same paper makes particular referenceto the needto mitigate impacts on indigenous people in section
4.3.
GFA Terra Systems: `Results o fthe IndependentReview o f Strategic Forest Management Plans prepared
by ConcessionCompaniesoperating in Cambodia', August 2004, pp. 134-135.


                                                                                                      66

On Everbright CIGWood:

"Socialplanning has been treated inadequately in the ESU and SFMP, inprocess and
content. Inprinciple, it should have been done in aparticipatory manner involving
communitiesand local government. As a top-downexercise it is also inadequate -
baseline datawas either inaccurate or incorrectly applied and the resulting community
areas are unsuitable in size, location andforest type. 91160

On Samraong Wood:

"Social research andplanning have been inadequate, inprocess and content. Thefact
that an enormous area has been set-aside,principally for communitypurposes, should
not disguise thefact that the diverse interests of the surrounding communitieswere
poorly understoodand their own opinions not taken into account. Most of the area is low
valueforest, and access to resin trees and other NTFPs, is not assured. Theproposal to
renegotiate the law to give the company the right to control NTFP management (resin
tappina) seems indicative of the real intentions of the company. Consultation
mechanisms have not been established."161

Commenting on standards o f social impact assessment and planning across all the six
plans that the FCMCPP had recommended for approval, the review team found that:

`)participation in the designationof communityareas did not takeplace and the whole
social context of these concessions has becomeproblematic as a result, even though the
TRT (FCMCPP review team) initiated community consultations aspart of their review
process. The currently roposedcommunity use zones and resource accessplans are
therefore inadequate.A 2


On the specific issue o f indigenous people, moreover, their conclusion was as follows:

 "Guidelines andplans must address the issue of indigenous ethnic groups, and their land
rights, but none of the concessions have begun to do this.

The World Bank's failure to abide by this operational policy has meant that the FCMCPP
has taken no account o f the potential impacts o f concession activity on indigenous
peoples, or their rights (to land inparticular) under Cambodian law. This inturn has
allowed concessionaires to ignore these issues completely.


I6OGFA Terra Systems: `Results o fthe IndependentReview o f Strategic Forest ManagementPlans
preparedby Concession Companiesoperating in Cambodia', August 2004, p.113.
   ibid, p.122
   ibid, p.135
   ibid, p.59. Note that the failure o fthe concessionairesto recognise populations of indigenous people
had already beenhighlighted in Global Witness, `Preliminary Assessmentof Strategic ForestManagement
Plans andEnvironmental and Social Impact Assessment Reports - Cambodia's Forest Management
Options for the Future', December 2002, p.p. 28-29.




                                                                                                        67

More broadly, one can conclude that these omissions have had the overall effect o f
making the concessions appear more viable and less socially disruptive than i s infact the
case. Again, this feeds into the overriding harmful impact o f the FCMCPP -the
lowering of standards for concessionaires and the provision o f World Bank Project
endorsement to companies whose activities cause material harm to Cambodian citizens.



3.3 OperationalPolicy OP 4.36 -Forests

For the Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project inCambodia the
applicable World Bank Forest Policy i s OP 4.36, September 1993, along with relevant
annexes, as this was the operational policy inplace at the time o f FCMCPP design and
initial stages implementation.

OP 4.36: `i... . the Bank Group does notfinance commercial logging operations... in
primary tropical moistforests.  "



The World Bank has breachedthis Operational Policy inits provision of loan-backed
technical assistance to concessionaires that i s designed to facilitate their future logging
operations.

OP 4.36 does state that "When the government has (made a commitment to move towards
sustainable management of primary tropical moistforest), the Bank mayfinance
improvements in theplanning, monitoring, andfield control of forestry operations to
maximize the capability of responsible agencies to carry out the sustainable management
of the resource.

The critical point here, however is that the Bank has allowedthe FCMCPP to go beyond
this inits active support ofthe logging concessionaires. As noted above, the companies
with which the project has engaged are inany case particularly undeserving beneficiaries
o f loan money. Inaddition, this operational policy includes five criteria for what
constitutes a "government's commitment to move toward sustainable management of
(primary moist tropical)forests  ". Itis doubtful that the Cambodian government can be
considered in compliance with all or evenmany o f these:

(I,Adoptpolicies andan institutionalframework to (a) ensure conservationand
sustainable use of existingforests and (b) promote more activeparticipation of local
people and theprivate sector (withproper incentives) in the long-term management of
naturalforests

The Cambodian government, however, has based production forest management on a
concession system inwhich, as the FCMCPP task manager himself admitted, "land
allocation was inappropriate, concessionaire selection was noncompetitiveand
nontransparent contracts werepoorly conceived, (and) local interests were not



                                                                                            68

considered.         The situation might be different had the World Bank focused the
FCMCPP on rectifying these problems. However, as outlined above, the World Bank has
not attempted to challenge any o f these problematic features o f the concession system
and has instead adopted them as the foundations on which to build its project.

(io Adopt a comprehensive and environmentally soundforestry conservation and
development plan that contains a clear definition of the roles and rights of the
government, theprivate sector, and local people (includingforest dwellers)

The government had no such plan at the commencement o f the FCMCPP and appears to
be no closer to producing one.

(iii) Undertake social, economic, and environmental assessments of theforests being
consideredfor commercial use

N o prior assessmentso f Cambodia's production forests were undertaken before they
were parceled into    concession^.'^^   Itis true that the logging companies have been
required to carry out social, economic and environmental assessments as part o f the
FCMCPP-supported planningprocess. However, the fact that these are only being
attempted years after the forest has already been allocated as logging concessions means
that their scope to influence strategic management decisions is limited. Inany case, as
argued above, the quality o f the social, economic and environmental assessments
produced by the concessionaires has been extremely poor.

(iv) Set aside adequate compensatory preservationforests to maintain biodiversity and
safeguard the interests of forest dwellers, specijkally their rights of access to designated
forest areas

Since 1993 Cambodia has had a national protected areas system designed to conserve
biodiversity. Moreover, official guidelines for concession management developed during
the late 1990s do call for the interests of forest dwellers' to be addressed inconcession
planning. Boththese factors suggest that the Cambodian government has met this
criterion on paper at least.

Inpracticehowever, concession companies' have consistently disregardedforest
dwellers' rights and interests. Moreover, the management plans approved by the
FCMCPP do not appear to herald any significant improvement inthis regard. The
companies have tended to allocate preservation and community forests on degraded
areas, non-operable forest and areas not suited to community use.166



~




 164InternalWorld Bank memo from William Magrathto IanPorter, February 2001.
 165Asian DevelopmentBank SustainableForest ManagementProject, `CambodianForestConcession
ReviewReport', April 2000, p.15.
 166See, for example GFA Terra Systems: `Results ofthe IndependentReview of Strategic Forest
ManagementPlanspreparedby ConcessionCompanies operating inCambodia', August 2004; p 113, 122,
 135.


                                                                                              69

(v) Establish institutional capacity to implement and enforce these commitments.

N o such institutional capacity existed at the start o fthe FCMCPP. World Bank staff
would doubtless argue that establishing this institutional capacity was the primary
objective o f the project. However, it i s an objective that the FCMCPP has signally failed
to meet. Interms o f basic institutional structure o f the Forest Administration, for
example, the situation has actually deteri~rated.'~~Institutional flaws such as the lack o f
separation between production management and regulatory control functions persist.
Recent studies of the institutional framework leave little doubt that it remains inadequate
to implement and enforce the standards that OP 4.36 calls for.'68

The FCMCPP falls well short o f meeting other standards required by this operational
policy. For example, the requirementthat "borrowers identzfi and consult the interest
groups involved in aparticular forest area" has not beenmet. This deficiency relates
closely to the breaches o f Operational Policy 4.01 on Environment Assessment and
Operational Directive 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples concerning consultation.

Inaddition, OP 4.36 states that "Inforests of high ecological value, the Bankfinances
only preservation and light, nonextractive use of forest resources. "

As described above, the World Bank undertook no environment assessmentahead o fthe
FCMCPP that might have identifiedsuch forests o f highecological value. Instead, the
project has advised the Cambodian government to allow another 25 years o f logging by
three concessionaires (Colexim Enterprise, Everbright CIG Wood and Timas Resources)
inthe highlyecologically valuable Prey Longforest. This area was identifiedby an
IUCN(World Conservation Union) study three years before the FCMCPP commenced as
a "Remote, andpossibly very old, lowlandforest area with major wildlife populations ...
feasibility of a WorldHeritageNomination should be established(emphasis in
original). 1~169


A botanical study undertaken in2004, meanwhile, notedthat

 "We can also assume that the rainforests of the greater Prey Long region maintain a
level of biodiversity that equals or exceeds other lowland terrains of Cambodia. Given
that most national parks of Cambodiaare located in or near mountainous regions, the
biological value of the greater Prey Long region seems all the more critical. '1170

The 2004 Independent Forest Sector Review, to which the World Bank committed
funding, also draws particular attention to the ecological significance o f Prey Long."l


167IndependentForestSector Review, `The ForestSector inCambodia', PartI,pep.78-85.
   Mary Hobley / IndependentForest Sector Review, `Players inthe Sector: GovemmentAgencies',
Chapter 11, Part 11, p.p. 64-65.
   DavidAshwell incollaborationwith the DepartmentofNature Conservationand Protectionofthe
Ministry ofEnvironment, `Cambodia-aNational Biodiversity Prospectus', IUCN, 1997, p.56.
I7OJ. Andrew Macdonald, `Ecological Survey o f PreyLong, Kompong Thom', September 2004.
17'David Ashwell, Frank Miller& Ignas Dummer/ IndependentForestSector Review, `Ecology and
Status of Cambodia's Forest', Chapter 1, Part 11, p.p. 34-36.


                                                                                             70

Ina set o fcomments circulated inresponse to the IFSR, the World Bank did make
acknowledgement of the ecological value o f the Prey Long forest. This has not changed
the prescriptions o f the FCMCPP and their likely impact, h0~ever.l~~

The harmful consequences o f the World Bank's breaches o f this operational policy can
be summarised as follows:

     0  Assistance to and endorsement o f concessionaires that will allow these companies
        to continue logging with the same harmful consequences to environment and
        local people as inthe past.
     0  Allowing the FCMCPP to promote the logging o f a forest o f highecological
        value, thus greatly increasingthe chances o f its degradation.



3.4 OperationalPolicyOP 4.04 -NaturalHabitats

OP 4.04: "The Bank does not supportprojects that, in the Bank's opinion, involve the
sign$cant conversionor degradation of critical natural habitats"

No doubt the World Bank staffresponsible for the FCMCPP would argue that it does not
consider the promotion o f forest concessions as likely to lead to the degradation o f the
natural habitats which Cambodia's forest concessions constitute. As argued above, the
substantial body o f evidence on the impacts o f the concessionaires' activities strongly
suggests otherwise. The concession companies have already significantly degraded the
natural habitats within their concessions. Their past behaviour and, indeed the contents
o f the six sets of plans that the FCMCPP has approved (interms o f proposed over-
cutting) indicate that they will continue to do so.

"The Bank expects the borrower to take into account the views, roles and rights of
groups, including local nongovernmentalorganizations and local communities afected
by Bank-Jinancedprojects involving natural habitats, and to involve suchpeople in
planning, designing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating suchprojects. "

Again, as described inrelationto breaches o f operational policies on environment
assessment and indigenous peoples, consultation has been absent or o f a very poor
standard, both duringpreparation and implementation o f the FCMCPP.

Moreover, the Bank did not ensure that the borrower (Forest Administration) invited the
stakeholder participation inplanning, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation
that this operational policy calls for. It appears that the project's architects and executors
have declined to consider the forests slated for logging as natural habitats. While the six
concessionaires endorsed by the FCMCPP have, as required, made reference to
biodiversity conservation within their plans, the quality o f this work has been abysmal, as

   World Bank, `Cambodia IndependentForestSector Review -Comments and ProposalsGoing
Forward', October 2004.


                                                                                            71

a recent study of these components o f the EverbrightCIG Wood and Colexim Enterprise
plans makes ~ 1 e a r . l ~ ~

Failure to recognise the concessions as natural habitats in any meaningful sense has, as
with other deficiencies, resulted inthe commissioning of a poorly conceived project. By
the same token, the Bank has allowed the project to be produce outcomes that increase
the probability o f severe imminent damage to natural habitats that are part o f Cambodia's
natural heritage.



3.5 Operational Policy OP 13.05 -Project Supervision

OP 13.05: "Asa development agency, the Bank also has an interest in assisting member
countries to achieve their development objectives on a sustainable basis. To these ends,
recognizing thatproject implementation is the borrower 's responsibility, the Bank
supervises the borrower's implementation of Bank-jnancedprojects.

Project supervision is required inorder to "(a) ascertain whether the borrower is
carrying out theproject with due diligence to achieve its development objectives in
conformity with the legal agreements; (b) identifi problems promptly as they arise during
implementation and recommend to the borrower ways to resolve them; (e) recommend
changes inproject concept or design, as appropriate, as theproject evolves or
circumstances change.''

Inthe case ofthe FCMCPP, the World Bank has repeatedly contravenedpoint (a), as a
result o f negligence in supervision. Details o f these breaches are set out in detail in
Section 2 o f this report. The following appear particularly clear-cut examples.

i)Allowingprojecttechnicalassistancetobeofferedtocompaniesthatshouldhavebeen
excluded under the terms o f reference given to the TA consultants. This has had the
impact o f increasingthe chances o f these companies passingthrough the planning
process, despitetheir track records and obvious unsuitability as concession managers.

ii)NotensuringthattheplanningprocessesforSFMPsandESIAscarriedoutunderthe
auspices o f the project includedadequate and appropriate public consultation. Note that
consultation is required under Cambodian law (Sub-Decree on Forest Concession
Management). This has weakened the bargaining position o f communities intheir
dealings with the companies. Ithas enabled concessionairesto ignore the interests of
communities and remain unaccountable to those who live inand around their
concessions.

iii)Failuretoensuretheobservanceofminimumstandardsinthe2003forestcover
survey that the FCMCPP produced. This extremely poor piece o f work has provideda



173J. Andrew Macdonald, `Ecological Survey o f Prey Long, Kompong Thom', September 2004.


                                                                                          72

distorted picture of forest quality and cover in Cambodia. This inturn assists proponents
o f the concession systemto argue the case for continued industrial logging.

iv) Not taking any action to change the flawed methodology of the FCMCPP's review o f
the SFMPs and ESIAs, inparticular the project's refusal to take account o f the legal
prohibition on cutting resintrees. This protection o f resin trees is specified inCambodia
law (1988 Decree on Forest Practice Rules; 2002 Forest Law). This has led to
FCMCPP' s endorsement o f companies whose concessions may not be economically
viable. Itwill also encourage companies to continue logging resintrees, an activity that
i s illegal and which will serve to further impoverish already poor Cambodian~.'~~               This

has been raised with World Bank and FCMCPPstaff on a number of occasion^.'^^
goes directly against overall World Bank development objectives. Note that this issue


v) Repeatedly attempting to help a company (Colexim Enterprise) overturn the log
transport ban and profit from its illegal logging o f villagers' resin trees. Admittedly,
World Bank staff have themselvesbeen so directly implicatedthat i s debatable as to
whether this i s simply a breach o f the supervision policy.

Overall, lack o f supervision has accounted for many o f the FCMCPP's damaging acts and
omissions. These, inturn have contributed to the project's overall negative impact:
legitimating o f a flawed system and rogue concessionaires that cause material harmto
forest-dependent Cambodians.



3.6 Bank ProcedureBP 8.40 -TechnicalAssistance

A related World Bank standard that the projecthas not met is its Bank Procedure BP 8.40
on technical assistance, which accompanies the Operational Policy OP 8.40 concerning
the same issue.

BP 8.40: "Becausesupervision offers an opportunityfor informal TA,Bank staff must
remain aware of importance of effective supervisionto the implementation and ultimate
success of the TA.     'I




`74 BruceMcKenney, Yim Chea, PromTola and Tom Evans, `Focusing onCambodia's High Value
Forests:LivelihoodsandManagement', CambodianDevelopmentResourceInstituteand Wildlife
ConservationSociety;November2004, p. 91: "Basedon experiences in Cambodia and elsewhere in the
region, continuation of the current commercialforestry model will result infurther forest losses with little
revenue generatedfor government. It will not lead topoverty reduction and rural development. Indeed,
findings of this study suggest some logging operations (and some agricultural concessions) are helping to
move villages in high valueforest areas intopover&, not out of it."

`75 For example meetingbetweenHak Sarom, Oxfam; Andrew Cock, NGOForum,MikeDavQ,Global
Witness togetherwith William MagrathandAndrew BondofWorld Bank and John Dick, World Bank
StaffConsultant,PhnomPenh, October 2003; GlobalWitness interviewwith Yann Petrucci,technical
advisor to FCMCPP, 17 September 2003.


                                                                                                           73

Several breaches o f the Operational Policy on supervision outlined above, also
contravene this section o f BP 8.40. Deficiencies inthe work o f the TA consultants to the
FCMCPP that suggest inadequate supervision by the World Bank include:

    0   Provision o f assistance and advice to all logging companies, including those that
        should have been excluded under the terms o f reference issued to the technical
        assistance consultants.
    0   The refusal of consultantsto the FCMCPP to take account of the legal prohibition
        on cutting resin-producing trees.
    0   The distorted score-card system o f assessing concessionaires' management plans.
    0   The poor standard of the TA-supported forest cover survey.

This has contributedto the same negative outcomes as breaches of the operational policy
on supervision.



3.7 OperationalPolicyOP 4.11 -Cultural Property

OP 4.1 1 "1. Culturalproperty... encompasses both remains left by previous human
inhabitants for example,middens, shrines, and battlegrounds) and unique natural
environmentalfeatures such as canyonsand waterfalls.
2. The WorldBank's generalpolicy regarding culturalproperties is to assist in their
preservation, and to seek to avoid their elimination. SpeciJically:

(a) TheBank normally declines tofinance projects that will significantly damagenon-
replicable culturalproperty, and will assist only thoseprojects that are sited or designed
so as toprevent such damage.
(b) TheBank will assist in theprotection andenhancement of culturalproperties
encounteredin Bank-financedprojects, rather than leaving thatprotection to chance.
(c) Deviationsfiom thispolicy may bejustified only where expectedproject benefits are
great, and the loss of or damage to cultural property isjudged by competent authorities
to be unavoidable, minor, or otherwise acceptable. Specific details of thejustijkation
should be discussed inproject documents.
(d) Thispolicy pertains to anyproject in which the Bank is involved, irrespective of
whether the Bank is itselffinancing thepart of theproject that may affect cultural
property.

 3. (2) If there is any questionof cultural property in the area, a brief reconnaissance
survey should be undertaken in thefield by a specialist,"

The six loggingconcessions whose plans the FCMCPP has recommended for approval
contain both spirit forests and sites o f archaeological importance that undoubtedly
constitute cultural property. Despite this, it appears that the World Bank carried out no
survey o f these sites prior to the project's commencement. This omission falls inline




                                                                                          74

with the Bank's erroneous acceptance ofthe existingconcessionboundaries as an
appropriate basis for management o f the country's production forest.

There i s strong circumstantial evidence that many communities, particularly those
comprising indigenous peoples, have spirit forest areas. Despitethis, only one o f the
companies endorsed by the FCMCPP, Colexim Enterprise, has identified a spirit forest in
its plan. Communities inKompong Thom have complained that this company previously
logged their spirit forests inboth 1997 and 2002.

Inmid2004, a group ofprovincial, national and international NGOsfacilitated public
consultations concerning the six sets of SFMPs and ESIAs approved by the FCMCPP.
These consultations involved 1,529 people from 13 communes situated inand around
concession areas. One o f the common concerns that participants' voiced was companies'
inclusionof spirit forests intheir management plans; a factor apparently not considered
by the Bank or the FCMCPP.'76

Aside from spirit forests, the six concessions also contain important archaeological sites.
As with the spirit forests, itappears that a significant number ofthese have not been
identified  and excised from production areas inthe SFMPs produced by the six
companies, An assessment o f the first sets o f plans submitted by concessionaires in
2002, noted that:

 "Anumber of concessionaires recognize and excisefiom their areas officially recognized
temples and archaeological sites. This however is not the casefor smaller and uncharted
temples which dot Preah Vihear, Kompong Thom and Kratie provinces. Theseomissions
are inexplicable as thepresence of such sites is widely known locally. "177

Once again, The World Bank has not the met standards o f pre-project assessment
required by its operational policies. Consequently, the FCMCPP has proceededto
endorse SFMPs that appear to spell destruction for sites o f cultural significance. Logging
o f spirit forests will seriously harm the interests o f local communities. Furthermore,
similar lack of attention to archaeological sites couldjeopardise cultural property that i s
part of the national heritage o f all Cambodians.




    NGO Forumon Cambodia and Oxfam GB, `BriefNotes regarding Community Consultations on Forest
ConcessionManagementConcessions', August 2004.
 `77Global Witness, `Preliminary Assessment of Strategic Forest Management Plans and Environmental and
Social Impact Assessment Reports-Cambodia's ForestManagement Options for the Future', December
2002.


                                                                                                   75

SECTION 4: PREVIOUSCOMMUNICATIONWITH THE WORLD BANK

The World Bank's project intervention has beensituated within the Forest Administration
and has focused primarily on planning processes. This meant that, in its initial stages at
least, the FCMCPP had a fairly low profile within Cambodia. As implementation has
progressed, however, this has changed, and affected communities have had more contact
with the Bank and more awareness of its project's activities, as is clear from the letters
accompanying this submission.

Nonetheless, much of the debate around the project has been conducted between the
World Bank and local and international NGOsworking in Cambodia. The reasons for
this can be summarised as follows:

    0   The focus o f the project has made it largely inaccessibleto rural Camb~dians.'~~
    0   By the time the project commenced, there was a well establisheddialogue on
        forest sector issues involving the World Bank, other donor agencies and NGOs.
        Discussion o f the FCMCPP naturally fed into this.
    0   NGOsworking at boththe grassroots and national policy level were able to
        provide a conduit for the concerns and interests o f rural communities; NGO
        Forum on Cambodia and Oxfam GB beingobvious examples here.


Raising concerns with the WorldBank

Dialogue between the World Bank and NGOs has addressed both the FCMCPPand other
elements inthe Bank's forest sector reform efforts, notably its $30 million Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC). The SAC, initiatedinearly 2000, contained a range o f
conditions for release of the second tranche of US$ 15 millionthat related to the forest
sector. The government's failure to meet these conditions and the Bank's decision to
disburse the money anyway became a source of serious disagreement betweenthe Bank
and NGOS.'~~    The Bank's handling o f the SAC disbursement undermined confidence in
its commitment to achieving reform inthe forest sector.

Appeal to the Inspection Panel is intended as a measure o f last resort and the case o f the
FCMCPP i s no exception. For three to four years NGOs have been raising concerns
about the conduct of the project and its potential impacts on forest-dependent
communities with the Bank staff responsible.

From 2001-2002, Global Witness, in its function as official independent forest sector
monitor, held meetings with FA officials on a weekly basis. These were frequently


17*This problematicaspect of the projectwas highlighted inJ. Blakeney, Kay Panzer, Werner Schindele,
`Forest ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project-Final Reportofthe Mid-TermReview
Mission', February-March2003, p.4.
179Arguments against the release ofthe second tranche ofthe SAC are summarisedin Global Witness,
`World Bank caves inon ForestReform', PhnomPenhPost, 18 December 2003-1January 2004.
http:l/www.phnom~enh~ost.com/TXT/comments/c1301.htm. 1-

                                                                                                   76

attended by FCMCPP staff, as well as the project task manager and more senior World
Bank staff who were visiting Cambodia. While these sessions focused primarily on
developments inthe Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting Project, they also provided a
forum for discussion o f the FCMCPP.

Through these meetings, the World Bank obtained regular updates on the activities o f the
concessionaires, for example instances o f illegal logging and large-scale royalty evasion.
Italso receivedprior notice ofproblems likely to be encounteredinthe implementation
o f the FCMCPP, such as disclosure o f the management plans and `old log' transportation.

On numerous occasions over the last four years Global Witness and other NGOs have
also raised concerns regarding the FCMCPP at meetings o f the donor Working Group on
Natural Resource Management (WGNRM), o f which the World Bank i s a member. Over
the same period, World Bank and FCMCPP staff accompanied several Global Witness
field inspections to obtain a first hand understanding o f the issues. Participants inthese
field visits includedthe FCMCPP task manager, the senior operations officer in
Cambodia, the East Asia and Pacific regional director o f the rural development sector
unit,as well as others. FCMCPP staffalsojoined Global Witness on aerial surveys that
revealed the discrepancy between concessionaires' claims and the reality on the ground.

NGOs' countless attempts to address deficiencies inthe World Bank's performance inthe
forest sector inCambodia have extendedto mediation by third parties, such as the Bank's
regional external affairs and communication unit, World Bank personnel seconded to
Fauna & Flora International (FFI), as well as representatives o f other donor agencies.
NGOs have also keptup regular communications with World Bank staffthrough more
informal channels.


WorldBank responses

The Bank has respondedto questions and criticisms concerning its project inthe
following ways:

        Inmost cases, the Bank has beenpreparedto meetNGOsto discuss points of
        concern.
        The Bank has responded to most, but not all, written communications.
        In2002, the Bank downgraded the project's ratingto `unsatisfactory', partly as a
        result o f the lack o f public consultation undertaken inthe course o f the project.
        InNovember 2003, as the LILneared its due expiration date, the Bank convened
        a workshop involvingNGOs, inorder to discuss future direction o f the FCMCPP.
        Inthe last quarter of 2003, the Bank adjusted its spending plan for the remainder
        o f the LIL; allocating sums o f money to activities such as post-concession
        management.

The Bank's efforts to maintain dialogue are commendable. Nevertheless, the dialogue
and the shufflingof budgetary allocations have done nothing to alter the substance o f the



                                                                                            77

 FCMCPP. Inno meetings, written communications or actions has the Bank indicated any
 willingness to acknowledge the damaging impact o f its support to the concession
 companies, let alone a readiness to rectify this. The Bank's stock responses to criticism
 o f its project have been:


      0   blaming the Cambodian government
      0   arguing that it has no responsibility for and little control over what the FCMCPP
          does
      0   chiding critics for calling the Bank to account and exhorting all stakeholders to
          `look ahead', rather than scrutinising Bank decisions and project activities
      0   arguing that because the FCMCPP i s process-oriented, it is not subject to Bank
          operational policies

 Infact, the mainthrustof WorldBank activities inthe forest sector has not changedat
 all. Indeed it i s since the Bank began repackaging the FCMCPP in late 2003, that the
 project has produced some its most damaging outcomes. The most significant o f these
 has been its endorsement o f the six logging companies in June 2004. This seal o f
 approval is already beingused by the concessionaires to argue their case for resumption
 o f industrial logging. Inaddition, the Bank continues to use the project to help the
 concessionaires resume transportation o f timber that includes logs that were harvested
 illegally.

 Community members and NGOs have thus concluded that further dialogue will not
 persuade the Bank to abandon its support for the concessionaires and address the
 damaging impacts o f its project. This has ledto consideration o f the Inspection Panel as
 an alternative means o f holdingthe Bank to account.

 Table 3: Samplelistof correspondence and meetingsbetween NGOs and World
 Bank and FCMCPPstaff.'*'

 Written communicationsfrom the WorldBank and FCMCPP team are in marked in bold,
 Note that this list isfar from being exhaustive.


 DATE                           NATUREOF COMMUNICATION

 28 December 2004                e-mail from Global Witness to Ian Porter, Cambodia Country

I                               Director. World Bank
 20 December2004               I Letter from Ian Porter, CambodiaCountry Director,World                    1
                                 Bank to GlobalWitness
 2 December 2004                 Letter from Global Witness to James Wolfensohn, World Bank
I                              I President                                                                 I


    Notethat this list only refersto those meetingsfor whichminutes are immediately available. It is
 possiblethat WorldBank andFCMCPP staffmay also have their ownrecords ofthese and some ofthe
 numerousother meetingsthat haveencompasseddiscussionofthe FCMCPP.


                                                                                                     78

27 August 2004     e-mailfrom Kimberly Versak, World BankExternalAffairs
                   divisionto Oxfam GB
27 August 2004     e-mail from Oxfam GB to IanPorter, Cambodia Country Director,
                   World Bank
19 August 2004     Letter from IanPorter, CambodiaCountry Director,World
                   Bank to Oxfam GB
13 August 2004     Letter from Oxfam GB to Nisha Agrawal, Cambodia Country
                   Remesentative. World Bank




11 December 2003   Letter from NGO Forum on Cambodia to Jemal-ud-din Kassum,
                   World Bank Vice President, East Asia and the Pacific Region
22 October 2003    Global Witness press release
17 September 2003  Minutes o f meeting between Yann Petrucci, Technical Advisor to
                   FCMCPP and Global Witness
21 August 2003
     -             Letter from IanPorter, CambodiaCountryDirector, World
                   Bankto NGOForumon Cambodia
27 June 2003       Minutes o f meeting between World Bank and FCMCPP consultants
                   and NGO representatives, Phnom Penh
17 June 2003       Minutes o f meeting between John Dick, Staff Consultant to
                   FCMCPP and NGO representatives, Phnom Penh
9 June 2003        Letter from NGO Forum to Ian Porter, Cambodia Country Director,
                   World Bank
23 May 2003        e-mailfrom FCMCPPTask ManagerWilliam Magrathto
                   donor agenciesand NGOs
25 April 2003      e-mailfrom Jemal-ud-dinKassum, World BankVice President,
                   EastAsia and the PacificRegionto Oxfam GB
22 April 2003      e-mail from Oxfam GB to Jemal-ud-din Kassum, World Bank Vice
                   President, East Asia and the Pacific Region and Ian Porter,
                   Cambodia Country Director
10April 2003       e-mail from Oxfam GB to Jemal-ud-din Kassum, World Bank Vice
                   President, East Asia and the Pacific Region
3 April 2003       Letter from Yann Petrucci, TechnicalAdvisor to FCMCPPto
                   GlobalWitness


                                                                               79

28 March 2003     Letter from GlobalWitness to YannPetrucci,TechnicalAdvisor to
                  FCMCPP
17 February2003   e-mail from Jemal-ud-din Kassum,World BankVice President,
                  EastAsia and the PacificRegionto Oxfam GB
24 January 2003   e-mailfrom OxfamGB to IanPorter, CambodiaCountryDirector,
                  WorldBank
23 January 2003   e-mailfrom OxfamGB to IanPorter,CambodiaCountry Director,
                  WorldBank
22 January 2003   Minutesof meetingbetweenrepresentatives of OxfamGB and
                  James Wolfensohn,President, WorldBank
15 January 2003   Minutesofmeetingbetweenrepresentatives of World Bankand




17 December2001   e-mail from FCMCPP Task Manager William Magrath to
                  Global Witness
9 August 2001     Minutesof meetingbetweenrepresentativesof World Bank and
                  Global Witness




                                                                          80

CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS

World Bank staff have defendedthe FCMCPP by arguing that the project's focus on
planning and review does not leave a physical imprint, and that they cannot be held
accountable for the outcomes o f these processes.

This argument is unacceptable for a number ofreasons. The fact that the FCMCPP is
strengthening the hand o f other parties to log ina destructive way, rather than
undertaking logging operations directly, does not divest it o f responsibility. The general
pattern o f World Bank projects, even those that leave the most obvious physical imprint,
such as dams, i s for Bank interventions to be carried out via other actors; typically
government agencies and private companies. Inthis sense, the FCMCPP is no different.

One respect inwhich it i s different, however, is the scale o f the area that stands to be
affected. The Bank / FCMCPP seem to have taken the view that the huge size o f the area
involved means that observance o f operational policies is impractical and therefore
unnecessary. This i s not much o f a defence.

Another o f the Bank's most commonjustifications o f the FCMCPP i s that the Bank
cannot be heldresponsible for the flaws inherent in a system and operators that existed
prior to the commencement o f its project. Again, these claims are unsatisfactory. The
outcome o f the FCMCPP has been entrenchment o f some o f the worst o f the logging
companies. These firms will pass up no opportunity to brandishtheir World Bank seal o f
approval and use it to deflect attempts by local inhabitants to holdthem accountable.

Equally flimsy, i s the Bank's claim that it had no choice but to throw in its lot with the
concession system and concession companies. Since when has it beenBank policy to
respond uncritically to all requests for loans that client governments make? Inreality,
the Bank was under no obligationto intervene inCambodia's forest sector beyondits
own institutional imperative to keep making loans.

While tryingto reform an unreformable system and operators was folly initself, what has
made the FCMCPP not only misconceived, but actually harmful, has been the Bank's
determination to keep the concessionaires operating. The Bank constructed the FCMCPP
around the assumptions that the concession system could work, and that this could be
demonstrated through its project intervention. The objectives that the Bank then set the
project meant that it could only succeed if a significant number o f the concessionaires
kept operating. Were all the concessions to be terminated, the FCMCPP would be
exposed as a complete waste o f $5 million and five years.

This distortion that the Bank introduced into the project's conceptual framework has
driven the FCMCPP's constant efforts to lower the bar for the concessionaires and ensure
that some of them stay inbusiness. The combination o f endless dispensations and public
endorsement from the project has left Cherndar Plywood, Colexim Enterprise, Everbright
CIG Wood, Samraong Wood, Timas Resources and TPP strongly placed to resume
logging, with the same harmful impacts as before. Meanwhile, the Bank has not



                                                                                           81

introduced any controls that will cause the companies to operate with greater respect for
either the law or the rightso f local inhabitants. This leaves people who have sufferedat
the hands of the logging companies inthe past, anticipating their resumption o f harmful
activities inthe very near future. They perceive that the World Bank project has
contributed to this outcome and that is why they are demanding redress.




Recommendations for World BankBoard of Executive Directors


I n Cambodia:


    0   Publicly acknowledge the damage that the Forest Concession Management and
        Control Pilot Project stands to cause to the interests o f forest-dependent
        communities in Cambodia.
    0   Publicly refute the FCMCPP's endorsement o f the six logging companies.
    0   Write off the debt that Cambodia's citizens have incurred through the Learning
        and Innovation Loanthat supports the FCMCPP.


Internationally:


    0   Undertake a wide-ranging review o f World Bank interventions concerning
        forestry and other extractive industriesto i)ensure that the Bank is not breaching
        operational policies as it has in Cambodia; ii)ensure that Bank projects are not
         servingto entrench and endorse organisations that have a history o f illegal
        activities.
    0   Inthis regard, givepriority to a review ofthe World Bank's forestry project in
        Democratic Republic o f Congo.
    0   Include timber inthe Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) and hold
        Bank forestry projects to the same standards as interventions inthe oil, gas and
        miningsectors.




                                                                                         82

Appendix I:Concessionaire Profiles

Cherndar Plywood

Cherndar Plywood currently holds a 103,300 hectare timber concession inPreah Vihear.
Although the company's official owners and management are Taiwanese, Cherndar
Plywood's operations are effectively runby its subcontractors Dy Chouch (also known as
HunChouch), who is the cousin of Prime MinisterHunSen, together withhiswife Seng
Keang.


Illegal logging

An investigation by Global Witness in 1999 found multiplecaseso f illegal logging by
Cherndar Plywood, including logging outside permitted coupes, failure to stamp trees
after felling, and the purchase for resale o f prohibited luxury woods.'81Aerial
photographs taken inJanuary 2001 o f Cherndar Plywood's Dong Mar log rest area
showed an estimated 22,000 m3 o f timber, indicatingthat the company harvested
considerably more timber than they declared or were allowed for the 2000 cutting
season.'82

Despite possessing its own concession, Cherndar Plywood has also been found
purchasing illegally felled logs from areas outside o f its concession, including the Sandan
District o f Kompong Thom and Casotim's log rest area inthe Kang Chhor village in
Chhlong

Cherndar Plywood targeted trees tapped for resin throughout 2001 in spite o f the clear
prohibition on their felling. InDecember 2001, Global Witness documented the cutting o f
340 resin trees by the company. The Forest Administration investigated and confirmed
these findings but took no action. The company has continued to antagonise local people
and deprive them o f their livelihoods. Throughout January 2002 Cherndar Plywood
security manningthe checkpoints were denying local people access to the forest in an
apparent attempt to kill off the resin trade, inorder to eliminate the competition for the
commercially desirable resin-producing trees remaining inthe concession.184


Other legal and contractual breaches

A random inspection carried out by Global Witness inJanuary 2001 found that Cherndar




"* Global Witness, `Chainsaws Speak Louder Than Words', May 2000, p.p. 23-24.
   Global Witness, `The Credibility Gap and the Needto Bridge It', May 2001, p.p. 35-36.
   Global Witness, `Going Places...Cambodia's Future on the Move', March 1998,part 4, part 9.4; Global
Witness, `The Credibility Gap and the Needto Bridge It', May 2001, p. 26.
   GlobalWitness, `DeforestationWithout Limits', July 2002, p. 17.


                                                                                                   83

Plywood failed to pay any royalties for 29 out of the 89 logs inspected, while the
royalties for an additional 18 logs had been substantially underpaid.lg5

The Asian Development Bank-funded concession reviewfound that Cherndar Plywood
failed to pay USD 250,000 inroyalties for the years 1997-1999. It i s not known whether
this debt has since beenpaid.ls6

Cherndar Plywood was heavily involved inthe offsetting scheme that deprived the
Cambodian treasury o f timber royalties in2001-2002. As o f mid2002, the company had
offset more than a million dollars inroyalties owed to the state.


Poor concession management

The Asian Development Bank-funded 1999-2000 concessionreview gave Cherndar
Plywood's performance a rating o f 60 points out o f a possible 200 and described its
performance as "unacceptable in all aspects" and required "urgent action ", The review
found the company's operations particularly deficient with respect to environmental
sensitivity(three points out o f 40) and harvesting (15 points out o f 4O).lg7The report
further suggested that of Cherndar Plywood continued its current pattern of activity it
would exhaust its concessionwithin five to ten years.'"

Inadditionto its illegal logging activities, Chemdar Plywoodhas further refusedto
comply with its concession contract provisions and has been cited for inadequate
technical training o f its own staff.lS9



ColeximEnterprise

Colexim Enterprise currently controls a 147,187 hectare timber concession covering part
o f PreyLong-one o f Cambodia's most valuable remaining areas o f forest, both in
commercial and ecological terms. Duringits tenure Colexim has consistently
demonstrated its contempt for Cambodian law.


Illegal logging

Global Witness has documented many instances o f illegal logging by Colexim since
1995, including logging incontravention o f the January lSt        1995 cutting ban, obtaining


   GlobalWitness, `The Credibility Gap and the Needto Bridge It', May 2001, p.p. 35-36.
   Ibid, p. 11.
   AsianDevelopmentBank SustainableForest ManagementProject, `CambodianForestConcession
ReviewReport', April 2000, Appendix 8 page 1-3.
   Ibid, Appendix 8 page 4.
   Ibid, Appendix 7 p. 1.


                                                                                              84

illegally felled logs from the neighbouring GAT International concession and receiving
logs from the Boeung Per Wildlife Sanctuary.

InOctober 2001,Global Witness found Colexim sub-contractors illegally felling trees
being tapped for resinby local people. A subsequent investigation by the Department o f
Forestry and Wildlife (DFW) found that Colexim had cut 240 trees inthree different
locations. However, DFW accepted the company's excuses that it neededthe timber to
collect sample data for its inventory and that it intended to use the wood to build schools
and repair a bridge. DFW recommended that the Ministryo f Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries (MAFF) issue Colexim with a written warning. MAFF instead opted to furnish
the company with `advice' and then close the investigation.

Had this volume o f timber been logged legally, royalties to the Cambodiantreasury
would have amounted to approximately $60,000. Under the 1988 Decree on Forest
Practice Rules, the appropriate fine for Colexim's illegal logging should have been
between two and three times the value o f the logs.

Investigations during2003 and 2004 revealed that at least one thousand hectares o f
forested land around the Colexim logging camp `99' have been cleared illegally. The
land is now beingprepared for commercial plantation development. Colexim
subcontractors are instrumental in organising these activities and are also involved in
illegal logging and timber processing activities inthe same area.


Other legal and contractual breaches

InApril 1997 Colexim security personnel murdered Chan Oeurn, a local resintapper, at
the company's logging camp `99'. Chan Oeurn was trying to persuade a Colexim sub-
contractor not to cut resin trees inthe area, when he was shot three times by a company
security guard. The guard subsequently fled the area with the assistance o f other
Colexim employees and has never been charged with the murder.

Inearly 2003, localpeople livingwithinthe Colexim concession reportedthat company
representatives were visiting villages and handing out blankets in exchange for villagers
thumb-printinga document. Colexim subsequently sought to present this exercise as a
consultation with local people about the content and implications o f the company's
Strategic Forest Management Plan.

The Asian Development Bank-funded concession review found that Colexim failed to
pay the Cambodian Government royalties in 1996 and 1997 and in 1999 still owed
$40,000. More recently, Colexim has been involved inthe offsetting scheme designed to
divert royalty payments owed to the Cambodian government. As o f early 2002, the
company had offset due royalties totalling at least half a million dollars, It i s not known
whether any o f these debts to the government have ever been paid, however in late 2003,




                                                                                           85

the World Bank toldjournalists that it believedthat Colexim still owed the Cambodian
government $80,000 inunpaid royal tie^.''^


Poor concession management

The Asian Development Bank-funded 2000 concessionreview observedthat "Colexim
staffpossess low technical capacity and under thepresent administrationsystem are
 `required' to employ DFW teams to undertake inventory, tree marking andplanning
functions.  "  The ADB review also concluded that Colexim had committed seven different
breaches o f its contractual obligations and Cambodia's Environmental and Forestry laws.
Of these breaches, four relatedto deficiencies inthe company's concessionmanagement.


Conflicts of interest

The Cambodian government holds a fifty one percent stake inColexim. Forty percent i s
controlled by the Japanese firm Okada and the remaining 9% by former Colexim
accountant So Sovann. The lack o f any meaningful separationbetween the company and
DFW is such that a senior member o f DFW staff working on the World Bank-funded
Forest Concession Management and Control Project, Hang Sun Tra, who i s Director o f
the Project Management Unit, also describes himselfas an assistant to Colexim
 shareholder So Sovann.

 In2002, Colexim submitted Strategic Forest Management Plans andESIAswhich had
beenprepared by DFW's Forestry ResearchInstitute. The fact that the plans had been
written with staff o f the same institution charged with assessing them represents a clear
 conflict o f interest.



 Everbright CIG Wood

 EverbrightCIG Wood is a subsidiary o f the Chinese state-owned Everbright group, a
 conglomerate which was has been at the centre o f high-profile corruption scandal in
 mainland China. Like Colexim, Everbright's 136,376 hectare concession contains one
 section o f the Prey Long forest area.


Illegal logging

 Everbright carried out major illegal logging operations inCambodia in2000 and 2001,
 InDecember 2000throughJanuary 2001 Global Witness gathered evidence ofEverbright
 logging illegally inside its timber concession inKratie province. Company staff were
 observed collecting old and freshly cut logs at a range o f locations within concession

   The CambodiaDaily, `Illegal Loggers Keep Busy inKompong Thom', 31December 2003.


                                                                                          86

coupe 2, inwhich the company had no authorisation to cut. Loss o f royalties to the
Cambodian treasury from Everbright's illegal logging incoupe 2 alone could be as much
as $250,000.

Approximately 20% o f the logs inspected by Global Witness at Everbright'splywood
factory inKandal province in January 2001 had not been stamped by the Department o f
Forestry and Wildlife (DFW), indicating that they had been harvested illegally. Ifthe
same proportion o f the remaining logs inthe compound on the same date were also
unmarked, this would point to a loss o f royalties o f approximately $26,000.

While the evidence gathered inJanuary 2001warranted the termination o f Everbright's
concession, the company escaped any serious punishment. Everbright did, however,
receive an official warning from the Ministry o f Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
(MAFF) concerning the company's "illegal loggingactivities" inwhich the Ministry
threatened to cancel the concession agreement ifthe terms o f the order were not adhered
to.

In2002 Everbright submittedto DFW its Strategic Forest Management Plan. This
document proposed harvesting operations within 11years inthe same area (coupe 2)
where Everbright was caught logging illegally in2001. A basic premise o f sustainable
forest management i s that logged areas should be allowed 25 years o f regeneration prior
to renewed cutting.


Other legal and contractual breaches

The 1999-2000 Asian Development Bank concession review team found that Everbright
owed the Cambodian Government $200,000 in unpaid royalties and deposits. It i s not
knownwhether the company has since cleared its debts.


Poor concession management

The ADB review concluded that `Everbright staffpossess low technical capacity and
under the present administration system are "required" to employ DFW teams to
undertake inventory, tree marking and planning functions.' The review team also noted
that Everbrighthad committed eight different breaches o f Cambodian law and its
investment agreement with the Cambodian Government. Four o f these concerned
deficiencies inthe company's management o f its concession. The Review concluded that
Everbrightperformance was "Verypoor... Unacceptable in all aspects       ".

Conflicts of interest

One o f Everbright's sub-contractors has close familial linkswith senior Government
officials responsible for determining whether or not Everbright should be permittedto



                                                                                        87

continue operating. Sub-contractor KhunThong i s the father-in-law o f DFW Director
General Ty Sokhun and brother-in-law o f Minister for Agriculture Chan Sarun.



Samraong Wood

Samraong Wood i s a Cambodian company holding a 200,050 hectare concession in Siem
Reap. The company shares offices and personnel with Timas Resources company. There
are strong indications that, like Timas, it is owned by Singaporeanbillionaire Robin Loh.

The ADB concession review projected that Samraong Wood would completely exhaust
its concession within 5-10 years.'"


Illegal logging

Duringan inspection of Samraong Wood's coupe 5 inDecember 2001by Global Witness
found freshly felled resin trees throughout blocks 35 and 36. A company official
estimatedthat 80% o f Samraong Wood's 2001 harvest was made up o f resin trees; 20%
o f which were beingtapped for resinwhen they were cut down. This destruction o f resin
producing trees was corroborated by former resin tree owners inthe area who told Global
Witness that foresters forced them to sign sales contracts by telling them that ifthey did
not sign the contracts they would never see any money, which they did not anyway.19*

InJanuary 2002 Global Witness submitted a crime report to the ForestAdministration
relatingto a large sawmill operating two kilometres from the Varin District Forestry
Office, observed during an aerial survey o f the Samraong Wood concession in late
December 2001. The sawmill is not on the official Forest Administration list o f licensed
processing facilities and i s therefore illegal. Inany case, the sawmill i s located inside a
concession, which i s also ~r0hibited.l~~


Other legal and contractual breaches

The 2000 Asian Development Bank concession review cited Samraong Wood for
contractual breaches including failure to invest, failure to make financial deposits or pay
annual royalty, failure to submit a financial statement, EIA re ort, or adequate forest
management plan, and inadequate technical training o f staff.18




 19'Asian DevelopmentBank SustainableForestManagementProject, `CambodianForest Concession
ReviewReport', April 2000, Appendix 8, page 4.
 19`Global Witness `DeforestationWithout Limits', July 2002, p. 17.
    Ibid.
    Asian DevelopmentBank Sustainable Forest Management Project, `CambodianForest Concession
ReviewReport', April 2000, Appendix 7, page 1.


                                                                                             88

Inaddition, the review foundthat, as of 1999, Samraong Wood hadfailedto pay USD
200,000 inroyalties to the Cambodian Government. In2001 and 2002, Samraong Wood
offset more than $450,000 in royalties which it owed to the Cambodian treasury. It i s not
known whether any of these debts have since beenpaid.'95



TPP CambodiaTimber Product

TPP is a Thai company that holds a 395,900 hectare concession encompassing parts o f
Siem Reap, PreahVihear, and Pursatprovinces. Since securing its investment contract
in 1998, the company has made little effort to manage these areas andhas been largely
inactive. Due either to negligence or complicity on the part o f the company, TPP's
concession has been consistently subject to illegal logging operations.

The 2000 ADB-funded concession review concluded that less than 10% o f the TPP
concession area contained o erable forest and recommended that the government place a
moratorium on its activities.796


Illegal logging

TPP-subcontracted sawmills were active for several years before the company was first
officially active in 2001 and some, notably the Ta Ouk sawmill inK o m ong Thom, have
been caught processing illegally logged timber on numerous occasions.P97

Inlate 2000, GlobalWitness uncovereda major illegalloggingoperation inthe Phnom
Samkos Wildlife Sanctuary inPursat province, with signs that the loggers were accessing
the area through the adjacent TPP concession, 19* One year later, Global Witness found
TPP engaged in illegal construction o f a road from its concessionto the wildlife
sanctuary.

Inlate 2001, Global Witness investigations revealed numerous instances of illegal
harvesting and land clearance inthe TPP concession inPreah Vihear province. The
extent o f the company's role inthese activities remains unclear. Even if TPP did not
organise the logging itself, however, it i s evident that it has made little attempt to exercise
any managerial control o f its concession.




195Global Witness, `The Credibility Gap and the Needto Bridge It', May 2001, p. 11.
196AsianDevelopmentBank SustainableForestManagement Project, `CambodianForestConcession
ReviewReport', April 2000, Appendix 1.
19'Global Witness, `Deforestation Without Limits', July 2002, p. 15.
19*Ibid. p. 15


                                                                                              89

Other legal and contractual breaches

TPP was cited by the Asian Development Bank-funded concessionreview o f 2000 for a
range o f contractual breaches, including failure to make due investment, failure to make
financial deposits or pay minimumannual royalties, failure to submit required financial
statements, EIA report, or adequate forest managementplan, as well as inadequate
technical training o f staff.lg9

In2000 the Asian Development Bank-funded concession review found that TPP failed to
pay USD 100,000 indeposit and royalties to the Cambodian Government. It is not known
whether this debt has since been paid.200



Timas Resources

Timas Resources is a part o f the Singapore-based Robina group owned by RobinLoh, a
billionaire accused by academic researchers o f beinga business associate o f Indonesia's
Suharto family.201 In 1997Timas acquired a 161,450 hectare concession encompassing
parts o f Preah Vihear, Kompong Cham and Kratie. The Preah Vihear part o f the
concession includes the northwestern edge o f the Prey Long forest, the largest tract o f
lowland evergreen forest inmainland Southeast Asia. Nevertheless, "47% of the Preah
 Vihear area consists of inoperableforest types or villages and ricefields.          'J202




Illegal logging

Timas was operational during the late 1990sand implicated in illegal logging and export
of logs. 203 The company was then largely inactive up untilthe 2001 cutting season,
duringwhich it felled villagers' resin trees illegally inthe PreahVihear part o f its
concession. Inthe same year, overloaded Timas log trucks caused the collapse o f a
major road bridge inKompong Cham province.


Other legal and contractualpressures

Timas Resources was cited by the 2000 Asian Development Bank concession review for
contractual breaches, including failure to invest, failure to make financial deposits or pay
minimumannual royalties, failure to submit a financial statement, EIA report, or

~~



   AsianDevelopmentBank SustainableForestManagementProject, `CambodianForestConcession
ReviewReport', April 2000, Appendix 1.
'O0Global Witness, `The Credibility Gap and the Needto Bridge It', May 2001, page 11.
   George Aditjondro, `US BusinessLinks ofthe Suharto and Habibie families and their cronies (1)'.
'O'AsianDevelopmentBank SustainableForestManagementProject, `CambodianForestConcession
ReviewReport', April 2000, Appendix 1.
'03Global Witness, `Just Deserts for Cambodia?', June 1997, p. 15; Global Witness, `Going Places...
Cambodia's Futureon the Move', March 1998, part 9.2.


                                                                                                   90

adequate forest management plan, extensive illegal logging, and inadequate technical
training o f staff.204

The Asian Development Bank-funded concessionreviewfound that Timas Resources
failed to pa USD200,000 in deposits and due royalties to the Cambodian Government
as of I999$'     Moreover, like many other concessionaires, Timas Resources was
involved in the 2001-2002 offsetting scheme to divert royalty payments owed to the
Cambodian treasury. Global Witness investigations in 2002 revealed that it had offset a
sum o f over $350,000.




*04 Asian DevelopmentBank Sustainable Forest Management Project, `CambodianForestConcession
Review Report', April 2000, Appendix 7 page 2.
    Global Witness `The Credibility Gap and the Needto Bridge It', May 2001, p. 11.


                                                                                           91


      Annex 2

MANAGEMENT RESPONSE


                     BANKMANAGEMENT RESPONSETO
           REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
    CAMBODIA FOREST CONCESSIONMANAGEMENT AND CONTROL
                     PILOTPROJECT(Credit No. 3365-KH)

Management has reviewed the Request for Inspection o f the Cambodia Forest Conces-
sion Management and Control Pilot Project (Credit No. 3365-KH), received by the In-
spection Panel on January 28, 2005 and registered on February 4, 2005 (RQ05/1). Man-
agement has preparedthe following response.

,

                                                   CONTENTS

I. Introduction  ..............................................................................................................          1
11. The Request  ..............................................................................................................           1
111. The Forest ConcessionManagement andControlPilotProject                                                    ......................... 3
IV. SpecialIssuesandLessonsLearned...                         ..................................................................         14
V.   NextSteps ...............................................................................................................           22
VI. Management's Response               .......................................................................................          24


Tables
Table 1.    Supervision Costs
Table 2.    Chronology of Key Events

Annexes
Annex 1.    Claims and Responses
Annex 2.    Social Analysis and Consultations
Annex 3.    Supervision Mission Chronology
Annex 4.    SelectedDocuments and Correspondence
Annex 5.    Detailed Chronology of Key Events
Annex 6.    Cambodia's Forest Management Regulatory Regime
Annex 7.    References

Map
Map 1.   Cambodia: Concession Areas, 1997to Present (IBRDNo. 33865)




                                                             ...
                                                             I11

        AbbreviationsandAcronyms

ADB      Asian Development Bank
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development
ARD      Associates inRural Development
BNPP     Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program
BP       Bank Procedures
BTO      Back to Office Report
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CG       Consultative Group
C I      Conservation International
DAI      Development Alternatives, Incorporated
DANIDA   Danish InternationalDevelopment Agency
DfId     Department for International Development (UnitedKingdom)
DFW      Department of Forestry and Wildlife
EA       Environmental Assessment
EAP      East Asia and the Pacific Region
EASRD    East Asia Sector RuralDevelopment
ESIA     Environment and Social ImpactAssessment
FA       Forestry Administration
FA0      Foodand Agriculture Organization o fthe UnitedNations
FCMCPP   Forest Concession Management Control and Pilot Project
FRM      For& RessourcesManagement
GAT      Grand Atlantic Timber
GTZ      Deutsche Gesellschaft fiir Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association
IFSR     Independent Forest Sector Review
IMF      Intemational Monetary Fund
IPDP     Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
IPN      InspectionPanel
ITTO     IntemationalTropical Timber Organization
LIL      Leaming andInnovation Loan
MAFF     MinistryofAgriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
MEF      MinistryofEconomy andFinance
MOE      MinistryofEnvironment
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NGO      Nongovernmental Organization
O D      Operational Directive
OED      Operations Evaluation Department
OP       Operational Policy
OPN      Operational Policy Note
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PHRD     Japan Policy and HumanResources Development Fund
PIC      Public Information Center
PID      Project Information Document
Prakas   Regulation issuedby a Government office or officer, also known
         as a MinisterialOrder
PROFOR   Program on Forestry
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
QER      Quality Enhancement Review
SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit


                         iv

SDR    SpecialDrawingRights
SFMP   Strategic ForestManagementPlan
SGS     SociBt6 GBn6ralede Surveillance
TA     TechnicalAssistance
TFT     TropicalForestryTrust
TOR     Terms of Reference
TRT     TechnicalReviewTeam
TTL     Task TeamLeader
TWG     TechnicalWorkingGroup
UNDP    UnitedNations DevelopmentProgramme
USAID   UnitedStatesAgency for InternationalDevelopment.
USD     UnitedStates Dollar
wcs     Wildlife ConservationSociety
WGNRM   WorkingGroup onNaturalResourceManagement
WWF     WorldWildlife Fund




                        V


                                 I. INTRODUCTION

1.     On February 4, 2005, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection,
IPN Request RQ05/1 (hereafter referred to as "the Request"), concerning the Cambodia
Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project ("FCMCPP"         or "the Project"),
Credit No. 3365-KH, financed by the International Development Association (IDA).

2.     Structure of the Text. The document contains the following sections: Section I T
provides information on the Request; Section I11presents background information and
analytical work on the Project, including the overall country context fer World Bank
("the Bank") operations and policy dialogue in Cambodia, and key events during imple-
mentation. Section IV discusses special issues and lessons leamed, and Section V consid-
ers Management's intentions moving forward. Section VI presents Management's con-
clusion. Annex 1 contains the Requesters' claims, together with Management's detailed
responses, intable format.



                                  11. THE REQUEST

3.     The Request for Inspection was submitted by the NGO Forum on Cambodia act-
ingon its ownbehalfand onbehalfof affectedlocal communities living inthe districts o f
Tbeng Meanchey in Preah Vihear Province; Siem Bok and Sesan in Stung Treng Prov-
ince; and Anlong Veng in Oddar Meanchey Province, Cambodia (hereafter referred to as
the "Requesters"). These four districts are respectively located inthe concession areas o f
the companies Chemdar Plywood, Samraong Wood, Everbright and Pheapimex. See Map
1.

4.     Attachments to the Request received by Management from the Inspection Panel
are:

        (i)     One letter from representatives o f four affected communities (English
               translation) instead o f the two letters referenced inthe NGO Forum letter
                o f January 21,2005; and

        (ii)    Report prepared by Global Witness providing details of the case and the
                violations o f Bank policies that allegedly occurred.

No hrther materials, Le., the correspondence betweenNGOs and the Bank, referred to in
item (3) o f the NGO Forum letter, were received by Management in support o f the Re-
quest. Management wishes to note that prior to the Request for Inspection, neither the
four local communities who submitted the letter notedunder item (i)    nor their representa-
tive had previously communicated with the Bank on the specific claims asserted in the
letter.

     Cambodia


     5.     The Request containsclaims that the Panelhas indicatedmay constitute violations
     by the Bank of various provisions of its policies andprocedures,including the following:

            0  OP 4.01, EnvironmentalAssessment (January 1999)

            0  OP 4.04, NaturalHabitats (September 1993)

               OD4.20, Indigenous Peoples(September 1991)

            0  OP 4.36, Forestry (September 1993)

               OP 8.40, Technical Assistance (October 1994)

               OPN 11.03, CulturalProperty (September 1986, reissuedAugust 1999)

            0  OP 13.05, Project Supervision (July 2001)
               OD 13.05(August 1989 andJanuary 1996)

            0  BP 17.50, Disclosure of Operational Information(September 1993)
               World Bank Policy on Disclosure o fInformation(August2001).

     6.     The Requesters claim intheir letter that:

            0  "Through flawed project design and poor implementation, the World Bank
               has promoted the interests o f the logging concession system and the conces-
               sionaires. ..

            0  A key element ofthe FCMCPP has been assisting the companies intheir pro-
               duction o f [strategic] forest management plans (SFMPs) and environmental
               and social impact assessments (ESIAs). The concessionaires have been re-
               quiredto produce these as a preconditionfor continued logging. The Bank is
               thus using loan money to benefit logging companies that have a track record
               o ftimber theft, tax evasion andhuman rights abuses...

            0  By allowing its project to endorse the [SFMPs and ESIAs] o f six of these
               companies, the World Bank has increased the likelihood that they will con-
               tinue to maintaincontrol of their concessions. At the same time, the Bank has
               not succeeded in introducing any additional checks and balances to the con-
               cession system that would compel the companies to operate differently from
               the way that they didbefore.

             0 The World Bank project endorsement has in fact strengthenedthe position o f
               these six companies, which hereon will present their operations as having the
               World Bank seal of approval. Some companies are already using this en-
               dorsement to deflect criticism o f their past and future actions, making it even
               more difficult for adversely affected communities to hold themto account.




                                                   2




,

                                         Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project



       0    Through its acts and omissions, the World Bank has contributed to a set o f
            outcomes that stand to inflict harm on forest-dependent communities in the
            near future."

The Requesters' letter and the attached report fiom Global Witness claim that the Bank
has violated all the policies noted in para. 5 above. The claims and Management's re-
sponse are presented inAnnex 1.



             111.    THE FORESTCONCESSIONMANAGEMENTAND
                              CONTROL PILOT PROJECT

7.     The Project. The IDA Credit o f SDR 3.6 million (USD4.82 million equivalent at
the time o f approval) for a Learning and InnovationLoan (LIL) was approved on June 5,
2000, The legal agreement was signed July 6, 2000 and the project became effective on
October 20, 2000. A Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD)
Grant o f U S D 240,000 was provided for technical assistance duringimplementation. The
project was originally scheduled to close on December 31, 2003. The Closing Date was
extendedat the request o f the Borrower to June 30,2005. As o f February 2005, a total o f
USD3.7 million (73 percent) was disbursed out of the IDA Credit of SDR 3.6 million
equivalent (USD 5.1 million, reflecting SDR appreciation against the USD).

8.     Project Objectives. The overall project development objectives (Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement) were to demonstrate and improve the effectiveness o f a
comprehensive set of forest management and operational guidelines and control proce-
dures inforest concession areas, and to establish an effective forest crime monitoring and
prevention capability. The project was formulated with the expectation and understanding
that greater knowledge was needed about Cambodian forestry and`about the ways in
which reforms couldbe advanced. As a LIL, the project was specifically expected to gen-
erate better understanding o f the following issues (PAD, p. 4):

    0  Maintaining Commitment. The Government's commitment to sustainable forestry
       threatened strongly entrenched interests. A hypothesis behind the project was that
        increased revenue flows, professional support from the Department o f Forestry
        and Wildlife (DFW, now the Forestry Administration or FA), and local support
       related to socially responsible operations would help to overcome resistance to re-
        form;

    0  Private Sector Support. The then newly established Cambodia Timber Industries
       Association (CTIA) supported the proposed project, although its membership was
        acknowledged to include enterprises not fully committed to, or currently capable
        o f practicing, sustainable forest management. Moreover, the full costs o f sustain-
        able management could include significant reductions intimber supply and could
        lead to resistance from some concessionaires unless paired with other suitable
       policy or regulatory reforms, which would needto be identified and considered as
       part o f the project; and



                                               3

Cambodia



    0  Monitoring and Supervision Requirements. While the elements o f the reformed
       regulatory system were defined in detail, the FA monitoring and supervision re-
       quirements would depend, in large part, on concessionaire response. The rate at
       which concessionaires could absorb the proposed innovations and adjust their op-
       erations was not known. Petty and large scale corruption were characteristic o f the
       forestry sector and learning was needed to discover how regulations could be
       made more effective in the face o f extremely low salaries and difficult working
       conditions.

9.     Project Components.The project consists o f four components (PAD, p. 5):

    0  Forest Planning and Inventoty Component (USD 1.3 million). This supports the
       FA in providing guidance to and exercising quality control over concessionaire
       preparation o f detailed long- and short-term forest management plans. It includes
       conduct of field surveys and inventories, and assessment o f management con-
       straints, biodiversity and social issues, and risks of timber theft;

    0  Concession Regulation and Control Component (USD 2.04 million). This com-
       ponent strengthens the capacity o f the FA to oversee concession operations and to
       ensure compliance o f operations with plans and conditions;

    0  Forest Crime Monitoring and Prevention Component (USD 1.11 million). This
       component strengthens the capacity o f the FA and Ministry o f Environment
       (MOE) to systematically and regularly monitor illegal logging and to launch ef-
       fective prevention activities. It introduces systematic data collection and analysis
       techniques, and provides equipment and contractual services, training and techni-
       cal assistance; and

    0  Project Management and Institutional Strengthening Component (USD 0.97 mil-
        lion). This component establishes a Project Management Unit in the FA, includ-
        ing construction o f a small office building, and provision of equipment and staff
       training.

The project was subsequently modified in 2003, as indicated in para. 60; this modifica-
tion didnot require an amendment to the Development Credit Agreement.

10.    Project Organization. The project i s implemented by the DFW, which in 2003
became the FA as a result o f the reorganization o f the DFW pursuant to the Forestry Law
o f 2002. The FA i s a semi-autonomous agency o f the Ministry o f Agriculture, Forestry
and Fisheries (MAFF). A Deputy Director o fthe FA serves as Project Director. Under the
project, the FA established a Technical Review Team (TRT) to conduct concession plan
reviews, Staff from various units within FA and MAFF are involved in the project. The
forest crime monitoring and prevention function was initially supported by a project o f
the UnitedNations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and United Nations Devel-
opment Programme (UNDP) in 2000, using Global Witness as an "Independent Moni-
tor." This role is now contractedto a commercial firmunder the FCMCPP.




                                              4

                                         Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


11,     The Government-Donor Consultative Group (CG), which the Bank chairs, andthe
associatedWorking Group on Natural ResourcesManagement (WGNRM), although not
formally party to the FCMCPP, have consistently been engaged in discussion and infor-
mal oversight of the project and the sector dialogue. The WGNRM was recently restruc-
tured into four Technical Working Groups (TWGs), with the Forestry and Environment
TWG chaired by the Director ofthe FA andDANIDA as LeadDonor Facilitator.

PROJECT   BACKGROUND

12.     The project developed as Cambodia, one o f the poorest countries in the region
(USD290 per capita income in 2000), emerged inthe mid-1990s from decades of war
and isolation. Its institutions were fragile and violence and social disiocation were ongo-
ing, with disarray extending to all parts o f the economy. By the late 1990s, the Govern-
ment had begun an ambitious structural reform program, with the support of the Bank
and other donors. The Bank's 2000 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Cambodia
discussed the governance challenges facing the country: "[governance] overshadows al-
most all of Cambodia's development problems" (CAS, p. l).        The CAS built on awareness
o f the excessive role of the military innational life, the limitations and weak capacity o f
the public administration, low civil service salaries, widespread corruption, and other
problems; it set out building "the foundations for sustainable development and poverty
reduction" as the Bank's main objective in Cambodia (CAS, p. v). The CAS acknowl-
edged the risks to Cambodia o f faltering political commitment to reforms in the face o f
powerfid special interests or a return to social unrest and political instability. During his
February 2005 visit to Cambodia, World Bank President Wolfensohn told Government
ministers, diplomats and others that Cambodia must tackle corruption because good gov-
ernanceis key to a stronger economy.

 13.    Analytical Work. The Government, the Bank and others engaged in an intensive
examination o f forest policy following a sector analysis by the Bank, UNDP and FAO,
presentedin early 1996. That report, "Cambodia: Forest Policy Assessment'' (Report No.
 15777 KH), laid out the enormous economic, social and environmental potential of the
forest resource and identifiedserious weaknesses inthe Government's approach. Conces-
sions stood out as a critical constraint to the emergence o f sustainable, diverse and so-
cially responsible forestry in Cambodia. Illegal logging was also seen as a serious threat
to the sector. The Bank, UNDP and FA0recommended a strategy involving development
o f an improved regulatory and legal framework, re-examination of concession contracts,
trade policy reform for log and forest products and other measures. Subsequent studies
estimated 3-4 million cubic meters o f illegal logging in 1997-1998 and showed a contin-
ued pattern of grossly inadequate fiscal returns (DAI, 1998, Fraser Thomas, 2000b). At
that rate o f exploitation, the forest would be exhaustedinfive years.

 14.    The project was identifiedin December 1998 at the conclusion o f the program of
technical studies supported by the Bank under the Technical Assistance Project (TA Pro-




                                                5

Cambodia


ject, Credit No. 2664-KH).' These studies, which included consultations, workshops (see
Annex 2) and specialist input, helped establish the legal and contractual framework for
concession regulation and clarified the basis for the Government's use o f its right to ter-
minate concession contracts. The identification mission reviewed this work, considered
the role o f other donors, and concluded that appropriate management o f the concessions
would require substantial investment to build capacity and operationalize the desired pol-
icy reforms. In early 1999, the Government embarked on reforms to enforce forest law,
shut down illegal operations, andraise forest royalties.

 15.     A design alternative considered was the targeting of a small number of conces-
sions for intensive technical assistance and development as "model"                      operations (Ap-
praisal Completion Note, December 11, 1999). This was rejected, because o f the Bank's
obligation to comply with OP 4.36 on Forestry, the risks for the Bank in aligning with
any particular concessionaire, and the important needto deal with system-wide regulatory
deficiencies. Project preparation and appraisal were completed in2000.

PROJECT     IMPLEMENTATION

 16.     Project Supervision. Since approval o f the project in June 2000, Bank staff con-
 ducted nine formal supervision missions, including a Mid-Term Review (MTR). The
 Task Team Leader (TTL) was based ina neighboring country during the preparation and
 early implementation period of the project, and inCambodia from August 2002 untilDe-
 cember 2003. This allowed regular on-time and face-to-face communication with the
 Government, donors, and other partners. The Credit was augmented by several trust
 funds, including a Recipient-executed PHRD Grant (TF026419) o f USD240,000 and a
 grant from the Bank Netherlands Partnership Program (BNPP) o f USD 164,000 to sup-
 port project implementation. The Bank has utilized a substantial supervision budget (see
 Table l),  including trust funds, especially relative to the Credit amount. See Annex 3 for
 supervision frequency and composition.

                                 `   Table 1. Supervision Costs'(`0dO)        ..    -4:


                        Source       2001     2002    2003       2004    2005    Total
                      BB .         -   35       23        39      120     112      `-329
                                                                                   I_



                                                                                     +..
                      TF               41      113        37        0        0       190
                      Total            75      136       `76 *. &120 .. 112         `519



 17.     MTR. The Government commissioned consultants to assist in a project MTR in
 February 2003 and a report was prepared and made available publicly in April 2003
 (DFW, 20030. The MTR recognized serious problems that had arisen during implemen-
 tation, suggested that the FA redouble its efforts to utilize project resources and proposed
 expanded use o f project resources for forest concession control, forest law enforcement
 work, and reinstatement o f compartment-level planning. It highlighted the lack o f trust

 'Technical studies addressed forest policy, legal aspects, log tracking and forest law enforcement, and for-
 est concessionmanagement.




                                                      6

                                          Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


and credibility that was facing the FA and as aninitial measure proposed establishment o f
a Public Affairs Unit under the project. The MTR suggested an arrangement for the re-
sumption of logging (the Bank advised against this in a Management Letter from the Ru-
ral Sector Director to the FA Director on May 21, 2003, see Annex 4). The MTR also
proposed that the Government seek an extension o f the Closing Date o f the Credit. A
Bank-led multi-donor supervision mission, proposed to coincide with the Government's
MTR, was cancelled due to criticism by several nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)
o f the terms of reference (TOR) and proposed mission staff composition. A small Bank
supervision mission was later fielded to discuss the MTRfindings inMay 2003.

18.      Qual@ Enhancement Review (QER) Review, At the request o f the East Asia and
the Pacific (EAP) Region, a voluntary QER was organized by the Quality Assurance
Group (QAG)inOctober 2003. The findingslresults o f the QER were (pp. 1-2):

         "Good forest governance is far from being achieved., . and much work remains to
         be done at both the institutional level and inthe forest. While Donors and NGOs
         are impatient with the perceived slow rate o f progress, the panel's judgment i s
         that reform in this difficult area is probably occurring as rapidly as can be ex-
         pected, and would not be moving at all without the Bank's involvement..        ,



     0   The Bank's image, and indeed [its] effectiveness, have suffered from the follow-
         ing: (i) inability of the country team to coalesce around a shared strategy on
                 the
         substance and on process; (ii)   the early termination o f the FAOAJNDP Forest
         Crime Monitoring and Reporting Project due to the breakdown o f relations be-
         tween the Forest Crime Monitor, Global Witness and the Government; (iii)              not
         having inplace a clear and well-articulated vision o f how the recently liberated 4
         million hectares [from the cancelled concessions] are to be occupied; and (iv) an
         insufficiently well articulated Bank commitment to non-concessionaire forest us-
         ers, especially the ruralpoor in and near the forest.

     o   The panel concluded that the LIL and Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC, Credit
         No. 3323-KH) have had limitations as instruments in addressing the long-term
         structural nature o f Cambodia's forest governance problem. Nevertheless, care-
         hlly selected forest-related SAC conditionalit[ies], that are squarely on the larger
         governance agenda and are completely under Government control, should con-
         tinue to be considered inforthcoming SACS...

     0   The forestry sector i s o f strategic importance to achieve gains on the top two
         agenda items in Cambodia, governance and poverty reduction. Bank efforts in
         these areas will require a commitment by the regional and country management
         working incooperation with the Task Team and the Bank's external relations staff
         in order to develop and continuously re'fine a single coherent view on the sub-
         stance and the process o f [the Bank's] forestry sector strategy, and to develop and
         implement a proactive communications and partnership-building strategy."

 19.     The QER also recommended extending the Closing Date of the Credit and using
the remaining funds to carry out aerial and field surveys to verify the current status o f



                                                I

J

                                                Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project



                                    Table 2.-i2hronology of Key Events
                      Event                                                                             ,.
March 2003 - June     Independent Forest Sector Review, preparation through
2004                  distribution
April 2003-       . GovernmentW Rpubliclyavailable
August 2003           Prukas on Forestry RevenueSystemsManagement
Octobh2Q03            Sub-DecreeonCommunity Forestry                     * .
December 2003         Closing Date Extended
                                                    s of SFMP and ESIA        Approval recommendationwith-
                                                                              heldon 1.4 millionhaofconces-
                                                                              sions
                                                                          ~                              -~
July 2004 -ongoing    IndependentReview(GFA Terra Systems) of SFMPs and       2 of 6 plansreviewedas of Febru-
                      ESIAs                                                   ary 2005
March2005. .    '                                                                                    .
                          1    .                                              Concessionsofaroundone million
                                                                              ha remainunder review
June 30,2005          ClosingDate ofthe Credit



21.       Concession Logging and Suspension. The Requesters cite harm from previous
and possible future improper logging as the basis for their claim. The evolution o f log-
ging policy inCambodia prior to and duringthe life o fthe project is central to the claim
and to understanding the Bank's performance. Concession logging preceded the project
and Bank involvement in Cambodian forestry. Early logging was based on Government
approval o f plans prepared by concessionaires, usually without adequate investigation
and analysis. Logging was authorized on an annual basis according to plans based almost
entirely on processing capacity and not on the basis o f forest potential. Logging practice
by concessionaires was generally poor, as were road construction, worker safety and
other aspects.

22.       As part of its reform program, the Government enacted the February 2000 Sub-
Decree on Forest Concession Management, which defines roles and responsibilities for
 concession management and supervision and sets out the key principles to guide conces-
 sion operations. These aimed to provide protection to local communities and the envi-
 ronment, restrict harvests to sustainable levels, facilitate revenue collection and generally
 increase transparency and accountability. Provisions o f the Sub-Decree were initially in-
 troduced gradually in line with the Government's limited implementation capacity. After
 IDA approval of the project, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the United King-
 dom's Department for International Development (DffD) continued to support technical
 assistance and advanced proposals for the planning process, inparticular developing fur-
 ther a three-level planning process (see Annex 6).2 This process included brokering
 agreement between the Government and industry on an interim 50 percent reduction in
 harvesting for the 2000-2001 logging season from the levels approved for 1999/2000, and
 a September 2001 target for preparation o f management plans. A November 2001 super-
 vision mission provided suggestions on a draft Prakas (a regulation or Ministerial order)

  That work, which was originally intendedto prepare a community forestry project, was redesigned mid-
 way in implementation when Government informed the ADB that it would not borrow for community for-
 estry, and requested ADB to direct the balance o f the project to the development o fproposals for conces-
 sion management and for completion o f a review of concession performance.




                                                       9

Cambodia


on the enforcement of the planning and other requirements o f the Sub-Decree on Forest
Concession Management and the Bank followed immediately with confirmation in a
Management Letter. On December 16, 2001, the MAFF issued the Prakas suspending
logging and logtransportation for concessions that were not hlly in compliance with the
requirements o f the Sub-Decree as o f January 1,2002.

23.     Since the introduction o f the Prakas, no forestry concession logging has been au-
thorized by the Government and no reports o f illegal logging by concessionaires have
been substantiated by the Government or the Independent Monitor, except for the GAT
concession, which was terminated by the Government for illegal logging in May 2002.
Concessionaire compliance has been assessed by Bank supervision missions that have
visited idle concession wood processing factories and concession areas. Forest crime i s
independently monitoredby SGS.

24.     Log Transport Restrictions. The Requesters assert harm deriving from the Gov-
ernment's policy towards transport o f logs, including logs felled prior to the imposition o f
the Prakas. Log transport policy has also evolved during the life o f the project. In Janu-
ary 2002, when the Prakas went into effect, the Government estimated that 94,265 cubic
meters o f felled logs remained inthirteen different concession areas. InMarch 2002, log
movements were sanctioned by the Government in contravention o f the Prakas. In re-
sponse to concerns expressed by the Bank and others, log transport permits were re-
scinded and the ban on log transport was reinstated within days, with large volumes re-
maining in the forest. Bank missions, the Independent Monitor, and others visited
concession areas to inspect the stockpiles, some o f which are deteriorating, subject to ar-
son, and could possibly be used to conceal additions of new illegal fellings. In April
2004, estimates o f log volumes proposed for transportation provided by the Independent
Monitor were significantly less than in January 2002 but the basis for the reporting was
different. The discrepancy was discovered in the course of preparing this Response and
the Bank i s seeking clarification from the Independent Monitor.

25.     The Government repeatedly expressed concern over uncollected royalties, and
concessionaires approached the Bank regarding interruptions in the supply o f raw mate-
rial supplies, idle factories and unemployedmillworkers. Discussions in September 2002
inthe field with GlobalWitness andNGOForumstaffledto agreement onthe possibility
o f safe and legitimate transport o f logs. Shortly thereafter, the Bank wrote to the FA out-
lining a set of principles that could be applied to managing the controlled transport o f
logs. These included transparency, preservation o f evidentiary value, collection o f royal-
ties and worker and road safety. In2003, the FCMCPP forest concession control adviser,
whose TOR covered issues related to log transport, undertook preparation o f guidelines
for log transport management. This followed interest expressed by the Colexim Conces-
sion, regarding transport o f salvage logs remaining from site preparation for the Tumring
Rubber Plantation. However, concern was raised by several NGOs over the origins o f
these logs and harm alleged inthe course o f this operation. Despite the fact that the Bank
didnot finance this land development, inorder to be responsive, the Bank sent a staff so-
cial specialist to Cambodia. As a result, the social specialist proposed TOR for a retroac-
tive plan to mitigate damage done by the Tumring operation, but the Government subse-




                                              10

                                         Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


quently disputedany deficiencies inthe management o f social impacts from Tumring and
the log movement issue was shelved.

26.     The issue o f log transport was raised again inApril 2004 when the TWG was ap-
proached by the FA with a proposal to move confiscated and legally harvested logs from
nine concessions including Colexim. The letter was issued inthe last week o f April and
proposed that log movements begin in early May. The Bank responded to the Govern-
ment through the TWG and reiterated the principles first set out in September 2002. Log
movements were resumed inJanuary 2005 following a Government-donor discussion of
limited log movements at the December 2004 CG meeting.

27.     Timber Royalty Offsets. The Request also cites wezknesses inthe Cambodian for-
est revenue management system and suggests shortfalls in the Bank's response to prob-
lems. For most o f the project's life, logging has been suspended and there have been no
new royalty revenues due from logging inconcessions during that period. InMay 2002,
during consultations with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), questions were raised
over apparently off-budget transactions involving forest concession royalties collected in
2001. A Government audit later found these to have involved improper "offsetting"
transactions. As this issue was associated with the Government's request for an extension
o f the closing date o f the SAC and development o f an Action Plan to satisfy the remain-
ing conditions, the Bank asked for and received clarifications. The Bank also provided
assistance under the FCMCPP for the development o f strengthened financial procedures.
The Bank supervised the work o f an interministerial team that developed a Prakas on
forest revenue systems adoptedby the Ministers o f the Ministryo f Economy and Finance
(MEF) and MAFF inAugust 2003. Work continues with the Government on forest reve-
nue systems, including participation o f MEF and MAFF officials in the World Bank In-
stitute/PROFOR (World Bank, February 2004) policy seminars and training.

28.      Tensions among Stakeholders. Because forestry reform was painfully slow, the
Bank, other donors working on the sector, and NGOs were frequently frustrated with the
lack o f progress on the part o f the forestry administration. Members o f the NRMWG and
the NGOs often disagreed among themselves and with each other over the differing ap-
proaches to forestry reform. Tensions among project stakeholders, inparticular the Bank,
NGOs and concessionaires, emerged over a variety o f issues. For example, Global Wit-
ness, the Independent Monitor supported by the parallel FAOAJNDP project on forest
 crime monitoring and reporting, disclosed its report on the Government's law enforce-
ment work without the agreed prior consultation with the Government in January 2001
(for which Global Witness subsequently issued an apology). The FA0 project lacked the
funds needed to support FA work and there were numerous disputes about contracts, re-
porting, access to information and Government endorsements. The Bank expressed its
 concerns on these issues to the Government as well as to UNDP, FA0 and other partners.
In December 2001, a Bank supervision mission noted that the problems FA0 encoun-
tered indelivering assistance were a major obstacle to moving forward with the FA0 pro-
ject, the FCMCPP and reform. An FA0 review mission in early 2002 reinforced these
 observations and provisions were made for additional technical assistance up to the deci-
 sion to close the FA0 project in December 2003. NGOs also expressed concerns about
the substance and process o f the Government's development o f what was ultimately the

Cambodia


2002 Forestry Law and the Community Forestry Sub-Decree. The Bank intervened with
the Government on numerous occasions to expand opportunities for NGO comment and
input.Throughout this time, the Bank maintained an ongoing dialogue with Global Wit-
ness about both forest crime monitoringand views on forestry inCambodia.

29.      The tensions disrupted and delayed the expected development o f sector reforms
and law enforcement systems, contributedto the breakdowno f collaboration between FA
and Global Witness, and deepened the mistrust and lack o f confidence o f many NGOs
and others inthe Government's commitment to reform. In April 2002, the local director
o f the Global Witness program was physically attacked and beaten. The Bank and other
donors expressed concern about the attack and the Council of Ministers issued a state-
ment on M a y 10, 2002 condemning the assault. InDecember 2002, an incident occurred
infront ofthe FAwhen forest-affected communities petitioned FAofficials for a meeting
on the recently disclosed managementplans. The group was dispersed by police with re-
ports o f use of physical force. Bank management conveyed its serious disapproval and
received a detailed report from the Minister o f MAFF, which in addition addressed alle-
gations against the FCMCPP Director (see Annex 1, Item 10). Inthe aftermath o f the De-
cember incident and related allegations o f human rights abuses leveled by Global Wit-
ness, the Government announcedthat it would no longer recognize Global Witness as an
Independent Monitor and requested donor assistance inmaking alternative arrangements.
InMarch2003, consultant selection beganunder the project and a commercialenterprise
 (SGS) was awarded a contract as Independent Monitor inNovember 2003. Despite these
tensions, several NGOs have continued to work and collaborate closely with the FA (for
 example, WCS,CI, WildAid and Concern International).

 30.     Forest Cover Survey. To respond to concerns that hadbeen raised by NGOs and
 others about the possibility that changes in forest area and condition might have signifi-
 cantly undermined the management potential o f large areas o f forest, the Bank in 2002
 urgedthe Government to undertake anupdate o f forest cover data as a contribution to the
 MTR. The FA proposed assigning this work to its Remote Sensing Unit with interna-
 tional technical assistance provided by the PHRD Grant. The Bank arranged for external
 reviews o f the TOR and proposed methodology and provided its non-objection. During
 the course o f this work, the consultant presented the study methodology to a meeting at-
 tended by NGOs and researchers at the Bank Cambodia Office and was available to
NGOs for individual consultations. The study provided detailed maps o f forest cover,
 forest cover changes and tabular estimates of changes by major forest type for each con-
 cession and each park and protected area inCambodia. These were based on satellite im-
 agery backedby ground truthingand the study (DFW, 2003e) has now become a standard
 reference for forest cover in Cambodia (see Annex 1, Item 30). Reference to the Forest
 Cover Survey was made in the course o f political events and speeches during the 2003
 national parliamentary election campaign, and complaints were registered with the Bank
 that candidates for office had inappropriately utilizedthe study findings.

 3 1.    IFSR. The TWG initiated a multi-donor sponsored Independent Forest Sector
 Review (IFSR) in March 2003. The purpose o f the IFSR was to provide a fresh look at
 the entire forestry sector, and was to have evaluated the FCMCPP and reviewedthe draft
 SFMPs and ESIAs (the work on the SFMPs and ESIAs was not completed by the IFSR


                                              12

                                        Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


team and was subsequently contracted with GFA Terra Systems in June-July 2004). The
Bank's contribution to the IFSR included participation in planning and discussions with
the Government, and fees for the team leader from the Bank budget, but the IFSR was
managed independently of the Bank by the TWG. The IFSRteam delivered its report in
April 2004 and it has since been publishedon the Internet (http://m.cambodia-forest-
sector.net/). This 800-page report made a large number o f recommendations, including
some with a direct bearing on the FCMCPP. One o f the IFSR recommendations was to
close the forest concession systemand to move toward a system of local government con-
trol over forest resources decision making, referred to as "Partnership Forestry" by the
IFSRauthors.

32.     A compendium of public comments on the IFSR was distributedto stakeholders
by F A 0 inAugust 2004. The Bank issuedits public comments on the IFSR'reportinOc-
tober 2004 and these were also distributedby FAO. The Bank's comments on the IFSR
noted that it provided apotential basis for a constructive dialogue on forestry in Cambo-
dia. Unresolved aspects of the IFSR recommendations, including inconsistencies inpro-
posals for the concession system and the lack o f consideration for legal and contractual
risks, were outlined in the Bank's comments. The Bank provided observations on the
"Partnership Forestry" concept o f the IFSR and noted issues in need of hrther policy
analysis and development, including allocation o f land to protected areas and other uses,
community forestry policy, other mechanisms for public timber sales, forest law en-
forcement and administrative arrangements for the sector.

33.     SFMPBSIA Submission and Disclosure. At the core of the project has been
Government's establishment o f a systemto review and manage concessionaireproposals,
the first ina sequence ofwhich would be the SFMPs/ESIAs. Various parts o fthe Request
deal with qualitative aspects of those plans and the process by which they are reviewed
and disclosed. Under Cambodian regulations, concessionaires are requiredto prepare and
submit SFMPs and ESIAs for review, consideration and approval by FA, MAFF and
MOE. A target date o f September 2001 for submission by the concessionaires was not
met; the Government extended the deadline to September 2002, and allowed logging to
 continue inthe fall of 2001. The Bank considered the extension o f the date for plan sub-
mission reasonable, in view o f delays in the selection o f technical assistance under the
project, but conveyed its written concerns to the Government regarding the continued
 logging (see also Annex 1, footnote 2). A Bank mission inNovember-December 2001
 reachedagreement with the Government on the Prakas suspending logging that was sub-
 sequently issuedinDecember2001.

 34.    Following some resistance by the Government (see Annex 1, Item22), the draft
 SFMPs and ESIAs of the concessionmanagement plans prepared by the concessionaires
 were madepublic inNovember 2002 with provision for a limited 19-day period o f public
 comment, The Bank made its Public Information Center in Phnom Penh available as a
 supplementary site for the disclosure o f the SFMPs and the ESIAs both for convenience
 and because it was considered less intimidating than the FA building. The Bank moni-
 tored distribution of copies to Provincial and Commune Offices inthe concerned conces-
 sions and found that the F A had distributed Khmer versions o f the plans and a letter o f
 explanation specifically allowing unlimited disclosure in each affected commune. The


                                              13

Cambodia


manner o f the FA presentation o f its disclosure plans, the short period set for public
comment and brief delays in the availability o f copies at the Public Information Center
(PIC, see Annex 1, Item22), aggravated tensions between NGOs and the FA (see paras.
28-29 above). Together with the announcement regarding the public comment period, the
FA also announced that it was dropping requirements for preparation o f medium-term,
compartment-level plans that were to be the next level inthe planning sequence. Follow-
ing several exchanges between the Bank and the Government as well as interventions by
NGOs, the period o f comment was eventually extended to January 31, 2003, and the
compartment-level planrequirement reinstated.

35.       In2003, theFCMCPP concluded its first technical reviews ofthe concessionaires'
SFMPs and ESIAs and solicited comments from the TWG. The first two reviews recom-
mended rejection o f the two respective concessionaire proposals, and the methodology
and conclusions were endorsed by the TWG. Although the TWG originally undertook to
review all SFMP and ESIA submissions, this did not materialize. The TWG then in-
cluded reviews of SFMPs and ESIAs inthe TOR o f the IFSR in2003-2004 but these re-
views also didnot occur. By mid-year 2004, the FA TRT had completed its reviews o f all
SFMP and ESIA submissions.

36.       The Bank, in association with TWG, contracted GFA Terra as an independent
consultant to consider the TRT reviews o f the six concession plans that were recom-
mended to advance to the compartment planning level. GFA provided detailed reviews
on two concessions and suggested significant additional work inboth cases. Further in-
dependent reviews are proposed for the other four concessions; negotiations with con-
sultants and the TWG are pending. The Bank has not commented independently on the
six concessionplans or the TRT reviews and the Government has withheld action pend-
ing TWG and Bank comments. No concession operations have been approved, and con-
cessionaires have expressed uncertainty about proceeding with hrther planning or con-
sultations.



                   IV. SPECIALISSUES AND LESSONSLEARNED

OVERVIEW

37.       In response to the Request, the Bank has meticulously analyzed the claims and
reviewed its work on the project. The basic premise o f the Request is that the project con-
cept was flawed because o f the emphasis on concessions. Management maintains that the
choice o f working for gradual reform o f the system was the most appropriate at the time.
I t s strategy was widely shared by knowledgeable observers and forest policy specialists,
and was publicly discussed at the time o f approval. It grew logically from the work o f
other agencies andwas built on dialogue with the Government.

38.       The Requesters call into question the Bank's compliance with eight o f its policies
and procedures-OP       4.01, OP 4.04, OD 4.20, OP 4.36, BP 8.40, OPN 11.03, OD/OP
13.05 and BP 17.50. Management believes that the detailed analysis undertaken inAnnex
 1 demonstrates that the Bank is in compliance with all o f the policies and procedures


                                              14

                                         Forestry ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project



noted above, with the exception o f some processing and documentation provisions of OP
4.01 and OD 4.20.

39.    Under OP 4.01, the project was rated "By'and emphasis was placed on improved
planning processes and assessments because: (i)    the concession system was already fully
defined and would only be reduced in area by the proposed project and ongoing policy
work (under the SAC); (ii)   social and environmental risks and mitigation needs were an-
ticipated within the background studies (which were publicly available); and (iii)   the pro-
ject would not involve physical works. However, no Environmental Assessment (EA)
was undertaken prior to appraisal (see Annex 1, Items 5-6). Neither was an Indigenous
Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) prepared (see Annex 1, Items 12-13), in accordance
with OD 4.20. To have complied fully with the policies, the Bank shouldhave requested
more explicit documentation from the Government and providedmore extensive explana-
tion in the PAD. Local-level consultations on the proposed project concept should have
beenheld at selected concession locations.

40.     Management considers that the lack o f full compliance with certain o f its policies
has not had a material effect on the project nor has it led to harm or potential future harm
to people livinginproject affected areas.

41.     The Requesters m h e r suggest that the Bank:

    0   Acknowledge the damage that FCMCPP stands to cause toforest communities in
        Cambodia. Inresponse, Management notes that the Bank has helped to establish
        within Government the capacity to put inplace regulations andprocedures to pre-
        vent damage to the interests o f forest-dependent communities;

     0  Publicly refute theproject's "endorsement" of six logging companies. The Bank
        i s well aware o f the deficiencies in the plans o f the six logging concessions and
        has refrained from "endorsing" them or "recommending [their] approval." En-
        dorsement and recommendation are the sole purview o f the FA and not o f the
        Bank;

     0   Write off the debt that Cambodian citizens have incurred through the LIL. The
        Government is obliged to repay the IDA concessional Credit under the Develop-
        ment Credit Agreement. Inaddition, debt write o f f i s not undertaken for individ-
        ual projects or project specific reasons but because o f country economic circum-
        stances; and

     0   Undertake a wide-ranging review of World Bank interventions concerning for-
        estry and other extractive industries, as well as include timber in the Extractive
        Industries Transparency Initiative. Because an Inspection Panel case is project-
        specific, such policy-level issues are not addressed ina Management Response.

Cambodia



SPECIALISSUES

42.     The following paragraphs discuss some o f the special issues encountered in deal-
ing with the challenging and difficult governance setting o f a post-conflict country such
as Cambodia. The Bank recognized from the outset that there would be no easy solutions
to the problems inthe forest sector. It would be inaccurate and unfair to attribute to the
Bank the problems that persisted or ensued in the sector. Management believes that the
Bank adopted a responsible approach, consistent with its evolving forest policies and
strategies. Admittedly, the Bank faced a very complex environment and may have fallen
short inrecognizing or gauging some of these multiple challenges, especially inthe con-
text o f a small LIL. This situation cannot, however, be interpretedas indifference to the
goal o f promoting the sustainable development o f forests. In fact, hlanagement believes
that the Bank's intervention likely led to significantly better overall outcomes in the
Cambodian forest sector than ifthe Bank hadbeenabsent.

BankApproachto ForestryIssues

43.      Management wishes to highlight the responsible approach that the Bank adopted,
consistent with the 1993 Forestry Policy, which was applicable to the project; the 1991
Forest Sector Policy Paper; and the insights that the project derived from the evolving
new Forest Strategy during 1999-2000. The Forest Sector Policy Paper (1991)recognized
the role o f forestry inpoverty reduction. This paper, which constituted what today's Bank
terminology calls a forest strategy (OED, 2000), emphasized preservation o f intact forest
areas and included a Bank commitment not to finance commercial logging in primary
moist tropical forests. The broad goals o f the 1991 strategy were to prevent or signifi-
cantly reduce deforestation and to stimulate plantations and creation o f additional forest
resources. OP 4.36 on Forestry reflected the policy content o fthe 1991paper.

44.      During 1999-2000, while the FCMCPP was being prepared, OED undertook a
review of the 1991 strategy and the 1993 policy. OED found that implementation had
fallen short of its objectives and resulted in a "chilling effect" on Bank support for for-
estry sector activities and that lending for self-standing forestry sector operations that tra-
ditionally dealt with key forest policy and management sector issues had stagnated.
Among many recommendations, OED advised that the Bank should "address the risky
and controversial issues o f the forest sector." Inparticular, OED stated that "Illegal log-

laws and regulations.. . helping Bank borrowers improve, implement, and enforce exist-
gingneeds to bereducedby actively promotingimprovedgovernance and enforcement of

 ing laws and regulations." To do so "will also require that national stakeholders (espe-
 cially civil society and the private sector) demand, implement, and monitor improved
 governance practices." It was in this context that the Bank appraised and approved the
FCMCCP.

45.      Subsequent to the.OED review, the Bank conducted a two-year process o f analy-
 sis and consultation resulting in a revised Forest Strategy. This Strategy mandates active
 Bank engagement in the sector to promote three equally important and interdependent
 objectives-harnessing   the potential of forests to reduce poverty; integrating forests in
 sustainable economic development; and protecting the vital local and global environ-



                                              16

                                        Forestry ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project


mental services and values providedby forests. The Strategy identified, as a priority, the
need to address illegal logging and corruption and reform forest concession policies.
Concerning concessions, the Strategy committed the Bank to promote use o f regulatory
fi-ameworks for timber concessions to enhance the contribution o f forests to economic
and social development as well as environmental protection. The strategy also committed
the Bank to encourage governments to engage independent third-party certification bod-
ies inperformance-based monitoring o f forest harvesting and management operations.

46.      Although the FCMCPP was preparedunder the 1993 OP on Forestry, it benefited
from the insights of the OED review and the paradigm shift that emerged inthe new For-
est Strategy. The project reflects the emphasis on governance and forestry reform in the
new Strategy.

Weaknesses inCambodian GovernanceInstitutions

47.      InCambodia, similar to other poor, post-conflict countries, natural resourceshave
been distributed to appease warring factions, "purchase" political support, and finance a
patronage-basedpolitical party system. As a result, the cessation of civil war, while un-
doubtedly the most important priority o f Cambodian citizens, has not providedthe liveli-
hood security neededby the rural poor. Rather, corruption and the non-transparent alloca-
tion of natural resource exploitation rights have exacerbated their problems and their
access to the natural resources upon which they depend for a significant proportion o f
their consumption and income-land,      forests and fish in particular-has  been diminish-
ing. Competition for access to resources has continued to grow, intensified by a current
population growth rate o f 2.5 percent per year, and a dearth of alternative employment
opportunities for the rural poor, or investment options for the wealthy, due to an adverse
business environment affected bothby briberypayments and excessiveregulation.

48.      Cambodia's tragic, recent history and the complexity of governance issues have
requiredspecial vigilance, responsibility and continuous learning on the part o f the Bank
and other donors regarding issues o f corruption and reform. Given the combination of
tremendous needto provide basic services to Cambodia's poor and the acknowledgement
that rebuilding Cambodia's institutions would take time, donors have historically recog-
 nized Cambodia's governance shortcomings while tolerating limitedprogress inaddress-
 ing these issues. Hence, strongly critical assessments of Cambodia's governance per-
 formance have, until recently, generally not been accompanied by sanctions in the form
 of reduced aid flows, leading to general questioning o f donor commitment to governance
 reforms by civil society groups. More recently, multilateral donors, including IDA, have
reduced their finding based largely on governance assessments, although this has been
 compensatedfor by increasedfhding from bilateral agencies,

 49.      The 2000 to 2003 CAS statedthat "Cambodia's institutions o f governance are still
 weak, This issue overshadows almost all of Cambodia's development problems." The
 CAS set out to build "the foundations for sustainable development and poverty reduc-
 tion" as the Bank's main objective in Cambodia (p. v). The Bank's program focused on
 institutional strengthening through support for anti-corruption studies, public sector re-
 form, legal andjudicial reform, and improvedlandmanagement and administration, to be



                                              17

Cambodia


supported through analytical work, capacity building assistance, investment and adjust-
ment lending. The CAS program included three LILs, including the FCMCPP. While the
foundations o f the last CAS-governance,             service delivery and investment climate-
were appropriate and remain so today, good delivery o f the program did not lead to the
broader change in outcomes that was anticipated at the outset. Duringthe CAS period, a
number o f output targets were achieved through this approach, but the failure to address
cross-cutting issues such as expenditure management and public administration reform in
a more comprehensive manner resulted in "islands" o f improvement with very limited
impact on the Government's general approachto service delivery.

50.     Not surprisingly, IDA'Sprojects faced particular problems in sectors such as for-
estry, in which the incentives for resistingreform were pronounced. Based inpart on the
experience gained with forestry reform, the forthcoming 2005 to 2008 CAS will focus on
a limited number o f critical governance reforms3stemming from consensus amongst all
stakeholders on required reform actions that are both critical and feasible in a limited
time period. As a result, Bank support will include relatively more analytical work inthe
context o f technical working groups to develop and maintain agreed sectoral reform pro-
grams, supported by sectoral programs and proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credits
(PRSC).

ForestryManagementInstruments

51.     Over the last ten years, the Bank has put considerable effort into its work on for-
estry, which has brought into better focus the diverse values o f forests, the need for ro-
bust systems o f governance, and the participation o f communities and the private sector
as critical ingredients for environmentally sustainable and equitable resource develop-
ment. Cambodia has been a particularly challenging environment in which to advance
such reforms. The perception inthe Request that the Bank i s indifferent, or even hostile,
to development o f forests for uses other than commercial timber is contradicted by the
Bank's actions and statements. The Bank has made efforts to work with the Government
to ensure a suspension o f logging, promote disclosure and transparency, and formalize a
regulatory process to anticipate and mitigate risks o f future harm.

52.     The Bank has employed a three-pronged strategy inCambodian forestry issues to:
(i) theGovernmentinreducingtheconcessionsystem; (ii) instrengthening
    assist                                                                     assist
the regulatory system for the remaining concession system; and (iii)            contribute directly to
the development of alternative forest management arrangements.

 53.    Reducing the ConcessionSystem. At its peak, the concession system covered 6.4
million hectares and consisted o f large, primarily internationally owned and operated
holdings linked with capital intensive wood processing investments. The intemational
 donor community urgedthe Government to address serious deficiencies inthe system and
pursue reforms. The Bank, together with ADB, encouraged the Government to pursue a


  The CAS will focus on the private investment climate, public financial management, decentralization and
management of land and forest resources.




                                                   18

                                         Forestry ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project


case-by-case restructuring of concessions to achieve a higher level o f sustainability (see
Annex 1, Item 3). As shown on Map 1, a dramatic reshaping o f the claims on forest re-
sources inCambodia has resulted, with the area covered by concessions recommended by
the TRT to go forward now totaling just over one million hectares. N o other country has
ever, in percentage terms, so radically reduced the claims o f the commercial private sec-
tor over forest lands in so short a time as has Cambodia over the last ten years. While
many concession areas that were cancelled, abandoned or not allowedto go forward were
o f limited commercial value, others had both commercial and other forest values, making
the reductions important achievements and genuine contributions to public welfare. Much
o f this reduction inconcession area is clearly attributable to the FCMCPP.

54.      Strengthening the Concession Regulatory System. While concession systems
alleviate some forest management burdens on the public sector, because resource owner-
ship is unchanged, the ultimate concern and responsibility for sustainable management
remains with the public sector. The FCMCPP was designed to help Cambodia move to-
wards establishing a credible regulatory framework. A three level planning framework
(strategic, compartment, annual) helped to provide the tactical focus for the FCMCPP.
While the full range o f skills needed by the FA could not be developed under a single
project, strategic level planning requirements, for which the requisite skills were largely
inplace inthe FA, allowedfor an assessment ofthe physical feasibility o f long-term op-
erations, and led to a large number o f concessions being recommended for closure.

55.      While much remains to be done, the project has raised the quality o f the conces-
sion regulatory process to a new level. The inventory claims o f concessionaires have for
the first time been subjected to field verification by the FA. The FA has had a cadre o f
staff trained and oriented to the role and fhction o f an independent regulatory agency.
The FA has the basic physical infrastructure, mobility and communications needed to
implement its mandated responsibilities. There are, and have been genuine doubts-
which the Bank has shared with the Government and expressed openly-about            the poten-
tial for conflicts of interest, and the breadth and depth of commitment to the use o f the
FA'Sregulatory potential.

56.       The Bank's supervision o f the FCMCPP was informed and balanced inthe face o f
these uncertainties. The Bank responded promptly and effectively to the improper re-
sumption o f logging in late 2001 and to log transport in 2002. The Bank made its office
available to help ensure the distribution o f draft SFMPs and ESIAs and has repeatedly
taken responsibility for shortcomings inthat process. The Bank joined with other donors
in securing from the Government a reinstatement of the compartment planning require-
ment. These efforts, however, do not remove uncertainty about the intentions o f some
authorities inthe Government, or the risks that special interests will seek to, and possibly
succeed, inevading the rules, regulations and safeguards that have beenput inplace.

57.       Given the complexity o f many issues in the project, prioritizations were required.
Therefore, efforts to assess the social aspects o f concessions were deferred until the po-
tential concession area was reduced. At the time, other critical actions such as forest in-
ventory, mapping, and yield calculations were considered to be more immediate priori-




                                              19

Cambodia


ties. The suspension of logging on January 1, 2002 provided a level o f confidence that
harmresultingfrom uncontrolled logging would not occur.

58.     Another critical development was the disclosure o f draft SFMPs and ESIAs pre-
pared by the concessionairesinNovember 2002. It is unfortunate that the opportunity for
public comment and debate, a genuine landmark arid potentially a watershed in Cambo-
dian forestry, has not been idly realized. Nevertheless, the public scrutiny that disclosure
and transparency generated has contributed to the continued Government adherence to
the suspension o f logging andpursuitofthe planning process.

59.     Alternative Forest Management Systems. Prior to the project, the most signifi-
cant alternative utilization o f forest resources was deforestation and conversion. Conver-
sion occurs through land development schemes and through spontaneous settlement by
individuals, often landless and poor. Land development projects, unlike concession log-
ging, are designed to completely remove the natural forest and leave no residual sources
o f non-timber forest products. At the time o f project preparation and approval, as indi-
cated above, very limited work had been done on alternative systems for potential devel-
opment, such as community forestry and protected areas systems. FAO's Community-
Based Management o f Natural Resources Project has been the largest effort related to
community forestry, and as of 2004 covered around 100,000 hectares. Others, such as the
German GTZ, and NGOs, such as Concern International, have pursued pilot work on
community forestry. The 2004 International Tropical Timber Organization (ITTO) diag-
nostic mission (see Annex 1, Item37) found that "community forest management will not
bepossible at the scale requiredto dealwith extensive forest rich landscapes - although it
should be developed in appropriate locations within these landscapes." In addition, the
Bank has financed, through a Credit and GEF Grant totaling about USD4.7 million, the
Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project (Credit No. 3320-WTF023524-
KH).This isthe largest biodiversityproject inCambodia bothinscaleandfbnding.

 60.     Inthe areas released from concessions, the Government has taken preliminary
 steps to institute new management arrangements. The Government has requested addi-
 tional technical assistance to prepare management plans for post-concession forest areas
 and has designated approximately one million hectares o f post-concession areas as pro-
tected forest-the   Central Cardamom (401,3 13 hectares), Mondulkiri (429,43 8 hectares),
 and PreahVihear (190,027 hectares) ProtectedForests. The Government i s beingassisted
 in the management, protection and development of these areas by international donors
 and NGOs, most prominently by WCS in Mondulkiri and C I in the Central Cardamom.
 The FCMCPP itself was modified in2003 to addresspost-concession management issues
 and has financed the FA'Scollaboration with WCS inMondulkiri. The Task Team i s also
 seeking grant resources to develop a participatory forest monitoring system and to pilot
 community forestry approaches following project closure.

 61.     The forest system research and modeling work funded by FCMCPP (FA, 2004d)
 provides the Government with new data on permanent sample plots, forest growth and
 log volume tables and other information that is essential to sustainable forest manage-
 mentthrough any institutional arrangement.The Forest Cover Survey (DFW, 2003e) is a
 similarly valuable contributionthat is applicable to a range o fmanagement arrangements.



                                               20

                                        Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project



The inventory information that is now available for cancelled as well as potentially ongo-
ing concessions, and particularly the data from the FA validation studies by the TRT, are
new contributions to the knowledge about Cambodia's forests that transcend their con-
cession system application per se.

62.    The introduction of the concept o f "social responsibility" into public policy to-
ward commercial development o f natural resources, the demonstration o f a formal proc-
ess for the review of concession plans, and the solicitation o f public comment on com-
mercial activity on public lands, are models that could be extended to other state lands
based on lessons learnedfrom the implementation o f the FCMCPP.

63.    The project's approach to forest management systems has contributed to a number
o f important improvements-formal     adoption o f guidelines and codes o f practice for for-
est management; regular public reporting on forest crime; effective control of anarchic
logging in concession areas; and a sharp reduction in the area under forest concessions.
Unfortunately, the process o f reform in the forestry sector has moved much more slowly
than originally anticipated, raising doubts about the Government's commitment to the
reform process and the sustainability o f sectoral impacts. Delays inthe preparation, proc-
essing and review of forest management plans have left unanswered questions about con-
cessionaires' potential performance under the new legal and regulatory regime even as
the project nears its revisedClosing Date (June 30, 2005).

LESSONSLEARNED

64.     The Bank recognized from the outset that there would be no easy solutions and
that many of the problems (corruption, lack o f transparency) were systemic and could not
be addressed through a sectoral operation alone. To tackle the broader context, the Bank
adopted and applied a range o f tools and approaches-SAC        conditionality, joint prepara-
tion with other donors o f a "Governance" CAS, analytic work, partnership with NGOs,
public disclosure of information, and targeted work on land administration and tenure
security. Within the forestry sector, and again in consultation with other donors, the Bank
chose to address a focused and prioritized set o f issues-concession     management, forest
crime, legal systems development, biodiversity conservation, and community forestry. A
numbero flessons emerge fromthis:

     0  Because it does not intervene or take sides on existing investment contracts be-
        tween its member countries and the private sector, the Bank was limited to pro-
        moting gradual reform and to working largely within the existing system. I n ret-
        rospect, this constrained the Bank's options in the sector.

     0  This project marked a first attempt to introduce the concept o f social responsibil-
        ity into the management o fpublic resourcesinCambodia. Project contributions to
        the legal framework, management guidelines, regulatory capacity, and disclosure
        o f information were all essential elements in moving toward "socially responsi-
        ble" forest management. Unfortunately, these elements in combination were not
        sufficient to address the underlying distrust associated with the concession sys-
        tem. One important lesson must be that inthe absence o f clear resolve on the part



                                             21

Cambodia


       o f Government regulators, the Bank might have played a more proactive role in
       encouraging greater involvement of local communities at an earlier stage in the
       process to clarifi both opportunities and challenges inherent in the implementa-
       tion of the Government's proposed system. I n retrospect, many crucial issues
       might have been more effectively     addressed at an earlier stage-overlapping
       claims on timberhesin trees, lack of effective concessionaire controls over sub-
       contractors, restriction of access to livelihood resources-lowering    tensions and
       apprehensions on all side and speeding theprocess of reform.

   0   Project implementation was slow and suggested a weak Government commitment
       to concession system reform. The Government's response to issues, including il-
       legal activity by some concessionaires, was at times weak and at other times more
       positive and encouraging. The Bank repeatedly raised concerns with the Govern-
       ment about its performance and level o f effort. Indifferent and, at times, techni-
       cally poor work by concessionaires was commonly viewed as part o f doing busi-
       ness in Cambodia. I n retrospect, the Bank could have more aggressively
       questioned the Government's commitment. It also could have been more outspo-
       ken regarding its concerns about the quality of submissions and aflawed disclo-
       sureprocess.

   0   The quality and impact of consultations undertaken by concessionaires in the
       course o f their planpreparation was to have been one o f the dimensions by which
       plans were assessed. The responsibility o f the Government and the concession-
       aires for consultation related to concession developments neededto be more rig-
       orously examined and developed. The Government's understanding o f consulta-
       tion and informed consent needed strengthening; thus the PHRD Grant program
       was put in place to provide technical assistance in social aspects o f plan evalua-
       tion. Government pursuit of this work was slow, but i s now proceeding using
       Bank internal budget and under Bank supervision. I n retrospect, conditionalities
       in the legal agreement concerning social issues might have been appropriate.



                                    V. NEXTSTEPS

65.    Management has reviewed the progress o f the project, its accomplishments and
lessons learned. In light o f the limitedtime remaining prior to project completion, Man-
agement proposes a dual track approach, one for actions to be taken before project clo-
sure, andthe second, suggestedoptions over the longer term, once the project has closed.

66.    ProposedActions during the Remaining Project Period. The Bank will focus on:

   0   Supervising ongoing work to refine and field-test community consultation proce-
       dures, inorder to better address, inter alia, Indigenous Peoples issues;

   0   Monitoring Borrower-implemented mitigation actions identifiedthrough consulta-
       tion;



                                            22

                                       Forestry ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project



    0  Working inpartnership with the TWG to initiate the process o f facilitated consen-
       sus buildingcalled for by the IFSR;

    0  Making resources available and seeking donor support to complete the review o f
       the remaining SFMPs and ESIAs;

    0  Urging the Government to formalize forest management planning procedures for
       post-concession andnon-concessionareas; and

    0  Seeking the Government's final determination on concessions recommended for
       closure by the TRT.

67.    Options beyond the Project Period. Management i s considering options available
to the Bank to continue work inthe forestry sector within the broader context o f natural
resources management. Options include:

    0  Mobilization o f grant support to pilot alternative forest management regimes (led
       by communities andor local government) and to facilitate a transition from an in-
       ternational monitor to a participatory system o f forest crime monitoring;

    0  Application o f lessons learned in the forestry sector to the broader dialogue on
       landeconomic concession reforms;

    0  Continued dialogue on forestry sector reform and natural resources management
       inoperations that follow fromthe governance CAS nowunder preparation; and

    0  Exploration o fpartnershipswith other stakeholders includingthe TWG.

68.     Options beyond Cambodia. Inthe ongoing development o f a forestry strategy for
the Bank in East Asia, the Bank i s examining opportunities outside its usual lending and
country analytic instruments on issues o f forest law enforcement and governance. It i s
developing initiatives to address illegal logging and forest-based corruptionthrough Anti-
Money-Laundering efforts, developing technical guidance on timber theft prevention,
planning consultations on anti-corruption work focusing on forestry, and supporting fol-
low-up to the Bali Declaration on Forest Law Enforcement and Governance.

69.    Risks and Mitigation. The Bank recognizes the risks posed by the Cambodian
forest concession management system and has consistently triedto mitigate the risks con-
cessions pose to local communities and the environment throughout its work. This is why
the Bank has promoted development o f a formal system for concession planning that in-
cludes predictable opportunities for transparency and public input. The project has not
been completely successful in achieving these objectives. There i s still a long way to go
indeveloping greater predictability, confidence andtechnical quality inthe forest conces-
sion system. Nevertheless, the Bank ensured that draft SFMPs were made available
through its Cambodia office, has endeavored to bring social forestry expertise into the
management o f the concession system, and commissioned independent consultants to re-
view the assessments of concession plans prepared under the project. The Bank also has



                                             23

Cambodia


contributed to bringing about a reduction in the area exposed to concession operations
from 6.4 million hectares to just over one million currently recommended by the TRT to
go forward. Insummary, the Bank sought to help the Government ininstitutingmeaning-
hlandeffectivecontrolsontheplanningandoperationsoftheremainingconcessions.

70.     Ifimproperly planned anduncontrolled concession operations are allowed to re-
sume, communities will indeed be at risk o f future harm. The Bank expects the Govem-
ment to abide by its commitments to continue to require concessionaires to complete all
the planning and consultation requirements of Cambodian law. Any operations that are
allowed to proceed should be supervised by the Government working with local commu-
nities and other stakeholders to provide increased transparency to hold concessionaires
accountable for implementing their commitments to sustainable and socially responsible
forestry practices.

71.     Going forward, and based upon the lessons learned from the project, the Bank
will continue its dialogue with the Government and explore options regarding naturalre-
sources management issues, including forestry.



                           VI. MANAGEMENT'SRESPONSE

72.     The Requesters' claims, accompanied by Management's detailed responses, are
providedinAnnex 1.

73.     Management believes that the Bank has made every effort to apply its policies
and procedures and to pursue concretely its mission statement inthe context o f the pro-
ject. Management recognizes that the Bank was not in full compliance with processing
 and documentation provisions o f OP 4.01 and OD 4.20 during project preparation. The
Bank did anticipate the social and environmental issues associated with the project, in-
 corporated processes to address these issues into the project and supervised the project
 appropriately. Any harm that may have come to the Requesters was, in the opinion o f
 Management, not in anyway attributable to the Bank project. Management believes that
 the Requesters' rights or interests have not been, nor will they be, directly and adversely
 affected by a failure of the Bank to implement its policies and procedures.




                                              24

                                                       Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project




                                                 CL-    ANNEX1
                                                    SMS P




Project Basis. The Forest Concession                7-10   The Banks objective in Cambodia, as reflected in the February
Management and Control Pilot Project`s                     2000 CAS, was to help buildthe foundations for sustainable de-
endorsement of the concessionsystem                        velopment and poverty reduction, in particular strengthening good
stems from the point of departure set out in               governance through a more efficient and accountable public ad-
its projectobjective. World Bank staff took                ministration.The LIL for the FCMCPP was conceived in this con-
the view that the existing concessionsys-                  text, along with two other LILs, the Northeast Village Development
tem was the most appropriate management                    Project; and the Biodiversityand Protected Areas Management
regimefor Cambodia's forests and the pro-                  Project. The LlL did not seek to promote the existing concession
ject was designed to demonstratethat it                    system. Rather, it sought to assist the Government to make the
could be reformed.                                         regulationof the forestry sector more effective and equitable.
      Fromthe outset the FCMCPP'ssuc-
      cess or failure has thus hinged closely                   The Government establishedthe forest concession system
      on the fate of forest concessionsys-                 with arrangements dating as early as 1994and some before. This
      tem; giving the Bank an unhealthily                  system, adopted without consultation with the Bank, carried with it
      strong stake in its preservation.                    a regulatory burden that the Government was ill-equippedto
      A more serious flaw is the way that the              carry. As the international community's engagement in the for-
      Bank effectively linked successful pro-              estry sector grew, and as debate developed within Cambodia, the
      ject outcomes to the continuedtenure                 needfor a transparent and accountable system to control and
      of the incumbent concessionaires....If                managethe concession system became apparent. Recognition of

      the Bank wanted to demonstratea                      the responsibilitiesto regulate the system was developing through

      functioning concession system and                    studies supported under the Banks TA Project and ADB-financed

      thereby realise its vision and project               work (see Item 2). The Bank, after considering that other donors
      objectives,it needed to ensure the con-              were not taking on the challenge posed by the concession sys-

      tinued tenure of the incumbent conces-                tem, decided to assist the Government in reforming the system.

      sionaires.                                            As discussed in the FCMCPP PAD (E. Summary Project Analysis,
                                                            4.a.; Sustainability and Risks), conflicts of interest, capacity con-
      Followingthe logic of its pro-                        straints, and the public sector's lack of familiarity with a fair and
      concessionagenda, the Bank per-                       well-governed system were among the obstacles that the Bank
      ceivedthe development of alternative
      managementregimes as a threat. This                   expected. Nevertheless, at the time of project preparation and
                                                            approval,the Bank, other donors and NGOs (such as, WWF,
      sentiment is expressed in an internal                 TFT, WCS, FAO, UNDP and ADS) were optimistic about working
      memofrom the FCMCPPtask man-                          constructivelywith concessionaires, as indicated in various corre-
      agerto the Cambodia country director                  spondence and reports.
      about proposals to turn some of the
      concessionsinto protectedareas for                         The FCMCPP had learning and innovation goals (PAD, p. 4)
      conservation:"This area is currently                  that aimed to generate better understanding of the following is-
       under concession and the financial                   sues, which go beyond the concession system per se: (i) how
       package offered to the Government (by                increased revenue flows, professionalism in the FA and local
       conservationorganisations)could re-                  benefitsfrom socially responsible operations would help over-
       sult in difficulties coordinating activities         come resistance to reforms; (ii) how industry commitments to sus-
       and projects,not to mention maintain-                tainableforestry could be made durable and meaningful in the
       ing fhe coherenceof the concession                   face of higher costs and an increased regulatory burden; and (iii)
       system reform program." (emphasis                    how an effective regulatory mission could be adopted by the FA in
       added)....Indeed,the prevailing bias                 the face of corruption, low public sector wages and difficult work-
       towards the concessionsystemwas                      ing conditions. The project also addressed illegal logging and
       highlightedin a World Bank internal                  capacity building concerns.
       `Quality EnhancementReview'of the                         Under the project, nofunds are provided to forest conces-
       FCMCPPin 2003, which acknowl-                        sionaires. Funds from the IDA credit are directed to the FA with
       edgedthat "The Bank has not been                     the aim of reforming the regulatory system. Project funding seeks
       fully preparedto discuss alternatives                to build capacities within the Government. By the time of the

     ' Page  numbersare from the Global Witness 2005 report, "World Bank Forest Concession Management and Control Pro-
     ject in Cambodia,"prepared for the NGO Forum on Cambodia and submitted as a supporting document to the Request for
     Inspection.     '




                                                              25

           Cambodia




            outside the concession model."                  Credit Closing Date in June 2005, roughly one-quarter of total
       The World Bank decided to base its forestry          project costs will have been directed to forest crime monitoring
       project on the existing concessionsystem             and reporting, includingthe costs of independent monitoring and
       and concessionaires in the face of abun-             physicalequipment (computers, boats, etc.) that will be used by
       dant evidence that they were damaging the            the FA in the control of illegal logging. A substantial share (about
     , interests of Cambodia's citizens, particularly       20 percent)of the project'stechnical assistance addresses opera-
       forest-dependent communities.                        tional forestry research matters and other work directly relevant to
                                                            forest management and forestry institutions. The physicalinfra-
                                                            structure, communications and other equipment procuredby the
                                                            project is adaptable to any forest management arrangements
                                                            adopted in Cambodia.
                                                                 The quate about a preoccupation with concessions is taken
                                                            out of context. The statement was made in the context of the for-
                                                            estry dialogue as a whole, including community forestry and pro-
                                                            tected areas, and was not intended to convey limitationsof the
                                                            Bank`s work or the exclusion of alternatives. In correspondence
                                                            with the NGO Forum, the Bank wrote: "Some areas may simply
                                                            needto be off limits to concessionaires as special management
                                                            areas within concessions."
                                                                  Concerning the QER, this Bank review was project-specific
                                                            and,thus, did not consider the full range of other projectwork in
                                                             Cambodia. Nevertheless, since the QER, the Bank has made
                                                             additionalefforts, within the project and in other aspects of the
                                                             policy dialogue, to broaden its scope in the forestry sector, includ-
                                                             ing community forestry. Prior to the QER and after, alternatives to
                                                             concessionswere not ignored, as reflected in the conduct of su-
-                                                            pervision and the Bank's ongoing policy dialogue in the forestry
                                                             sector.

                                                                                                                             ~    ~~


 2.     Status of the Forest. [The World Bank]         10-   The project was based on extensive prior studies (by Fortech,
        conducted no thorough assessmentof the         11,   ARD, DAI,White and Case and the ADB-commissioned review -
        values and possible alternative uses of        16-17 hereinafterthe Fraser Thomas study), as well as Bank supervi-
        Cambodia'sforests (despite being one of              sion of the TA Project and the BanWFAOlUNDPForest Policy
        the few institutionswith the capacityto do           Assessment These all recognized misallocation of forest and
        so). Neitherdid it require any reworking of          other land to concessions and contributed to the logic of Bank
        the existing concession boundariesas a               funding of gradual reform. As indicated elsewhere in the Re-
        pre-conditionfor, or even a component of,            sponse (see Items 1and 5), the project's process orientation was
        its efforts to reform the concessionsystem.          intendedto provide a practical context for reassessment of land
             [Jlust months beforethe FCMCPPgot               and forest use, based on site-specific data. The Bank made clear
        underway, an ADB-commissioned review of              its view that credible land-use evaluation, planning and allocation
        the concessionsystem concludedthat it                processfor Cambodia would have been desirable prior to major
        constituted a "total system failure." Notwith-       land allocations. No legal basis for such an undertaking existed
        standing the conclusions of the ADB re-              until recently, nor is there adequate resource information.With
        view, the World Bank proceededwith the               concessions already in place in 1997,there was an immediate
        developmentof a project premised on the              need to improve resource use and protection on those areas.
        validity of the same failed system and op-           Integralto any sub-regional natural forest management planning
        erators. It made no attempt to challenge             (Le., SFMPs) is a forest zoning process, in order to eliminate from
        such fundamentalflaws as the location and            harvesting those lands needed for watershed protection, biodiver-
        boundariesof the concessions, nor did it             sity conservation and community resource conservation.
        questionthe legitimacy of the companies....
        Concerningconcessions'problematic loca-                    The quote from the Fraser Thomas study, "Cambodian For-
        tion and boundaries,Bank staff have ar-              est Concession Review Report" (2000a), is taken out of context
        gued that with the concessions already               and does not reflect the study's overall recommendationto pursue
        allocated,the Bank was not in a position to          further planning and restructuring efforts. A fuller quote is: "It can-
        demand any revisions.                                not be overstressed that no one entity is to blame for the current
                                                             crisis. It is the result of a total system failure; resulting from greed,
                                                             corruption, incompetence and illegal acts that were so widespreac
                                                             and pervasive as to defy the assignment of primary blame. Re-
                                                             sponsibilityfor the debacle must be shared by national and pro-
I     I                                               -

                                                               26

                                                         Forestry ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project
                                                      -
                                                      -
                                                      Page
                                                      No.`
                                                                                                                                     ~
                                                              vincial politicians,government staff, the police and military, con-
                                                              cessionaires,private businessesand individuals, and by individu-
                                                              als and organizations in the neighboring countries of Thailand,
                                                              Laos and Vietnam" (p. 25). In fact, the report concluded "that
                                                              DFW [now FA] should acceleratethe effectiveness of the World
                                                              Bank supported LIL project,so that the process of restructuring
                                                              can be monitored and guided" (p. 39).
                                                                   Problems posed by concession boundaries, as well as other
                                                              constraints raised by the terms of concession contracts, were
                                                              recognizedearly in the process. Setting aside areas for commu-
                                                              nity use and conservationfrom within concessions is one of the
                                                              objectivesof the SFMPESIA strategic level plannipg process
                                                              (seeAnnex 6). Government,through the support of the FCMCPP,
                                                              is responsiblefor regulationand oversight of this process.The
                                                              Bank has not been satisfied with the outcomes of this process to
                                                              date. See also Items 33 and 36.

Groundsfor Cancellation of Conces-                    17-18   The Bank has raised with the Government on numerous occa-
sionaire Contracts. Bank staff claim that                     sions its expectationsthat the Government should protect the
the Government could not unilaterallycan-                     public interest by cancelingconcession contracts that were not
cel any of the concessionaires'contracts                      operating according to contractual provisions.2While cancella-
without being subject to lawsuits by the                      tions are the Government`s responsibility, much of the information
companies. In makingthese assertions,the                      and standard-setting arising from Bank projects has influenced
Bank invariably refers to a legalanalysis                     the cancellations.The SFMP review indicated that one conces-
that it commissioned in the late 1990s.The                     sionaire never submitteda plan and thus will probably be stopped
Bank has consistently declined to publish                      after a reasonable grace period and two had their management
the lawyers' assessment, making its pro-                       plans rejected and are now dormant. As of now, only six remain in
fessed rationalefor opposing cancellation                      the review process.There is, therefore, an indication that in-
hard to verify. In either event, the Bank`s                    creased standards and performance expectations are having the
position is unconvincingfor two main rea-                      effect of eliminatingthose operators who are either incapable of
sons. One is the substantialbody of evi-                       or uninterested in improvingtheir forest management perform-
dence already assembled concerningthe                          ance.
companies' contractual breaches and illegal
activities.This in itself providedstrong                           The Bank does not intervene nor take sides on existing in-
groundsfor terminating most if not all the                     vestment contracts between its member countries and the private
concessioncontracts. The other is the                          sector. When the Bank has reason to believe that contracts may
Cambodian government'swillingness,since                        have negative impacts on the development of its member country,
beforethe start of the FCMCPP and subse-                       the Bank in general advises such member to undertake a full re-
quently, to cancel the investmentagree-                        view of its contractual relationships and the performance of its
ments of a large numberof concession-                          contractual partners and to seek legal and technical advices from
aires. Not one of these cancellations has                      reputable experts and firms.
encountereda legal challenge from the                               Through the Forest Policy Assessment (BanWUNDPIFAO,
companies concerned.                                           1996),the Bank encouragedthe Government to seek legal advice
     Somewhat paradoxically,the Bank has                       on its options for an estimated 30 concessions (6.4 million hec-
consistently tried to take the credit for the                  tares) already in place. The report also stated that: "the Govern-
government'sterminationof concession                           ment should also require concessionaires to satisfy [their] com-
contracts...The claimthat there are now                        mitments or should declare concessions in default" (p. ii).
only six concessions left is almost certainly
inaccurate-the government has an-                                   Under the TA Project, a legal study was undertaken in 1997

nouncedthe cancellationof only two of the                      on behalf of the Government by an international law firm. The

 18 that remainedat the start of 2003. On                      study was commissioned by the Government and it was not the


    * For example, "Continuationof agreements with concessionaires that have seriously abused the forest resource, and
    especially those that have blatantly violated the Prakas suspending operations, is especially troubling" (Rural Develop-
    ment Sector Director to Director FA,June I O , 2002, N.B. the GAT concession was cancelled June 16, 2002); "W]e do
    also believe that the Governmentneeds to act definitively with respect to concessionaires that are in clear and persistent
    noncomplianceand which are unlikely to be viable long-termparfners."(Country Director to Minister, MAFF, December,
    12,2001,N.B. Prakas suspending operations issued December 16, 2001).




                                                                 27

    Cambodia
                                                   -
                                                   -Page
                                                    NO?
the question of how the number was re-                     Bank`s role to disclose it. Requeststo the Bank for the document
duced [from forty in August 20001, the im-                 were referredto the Government. However, sections of the study
plied role of the Bank and the deliberative                have since been widely disseminated.The study resulted in a
quality of the process are not substanti-
ated...There is in fact no evidencethat the                detailedcritique and guidancefor a reform process. It described
                                                           the legal context for concessionsas riddled with ambiguities and
lations...The real grounds for termination
Bank has had a role in concessioncancel-                   inconsistencies,identified shortcomings in the concessioncon-
                                                           tract~,~and examined possiblejustifications for contestingtheir
have been, in most cases, becausethe                       validity. It noted that the success of challenges was highly uncer-
company had no more timber in its conces-                  tain and would pose a variety of risks. The study concludedthat
sion, was bankrupt or was associatedwith                   the Government could exercise its rights to terminate contracts on
opponents of the government. The Bank                      the basisof well established defaults, but could also seek to ami-
continuesto advance conflicting arguments                  cably resolve disputes with concessionaires on the basis of volun-
on the issue, however. On the one hand,                    tary restructuring.
Bank staff advise the government against
terminationof concessions becauseof the                         The Government did cancel concessions on the basis of its
supposed legal risk. On the other...the Bank               own assessments beginning in 1997 and further in 1999 when
expects to be congratulated when the Gov-                  twelve concessions covering two million hectares were terminated
ernment ignores its advice and terminates                  (FraserThomas, 2000a, p. 14).This study noted that the FA did
concessionsanyway.                                         not effectively respond to the management responsibilities implied
                                                           by the cancellation of these areas. At the 1999 CG meeting in
                                                           Tokyo, the Bank reflected on the partial progress of the Govern-
                                                           ment, referring to the fact that cancellations were concentrated in
                                                           low potential areas and concessionswith higher commercialvalue
                                                           meritedfurther review and action.
                                                                Concerningthe Bank`s position on cancellation of conces-
                                                           sions, the Chief Counselfor East Asia concluded:
                                                                "the review of the concessions should carefully avoid encour-
                                                                aging or facilitating breach of existing contracts, as this has
                                                                been alleged in some situations to amount to `tortious inter-
                                                                ference' by the Bank in ongoing contracts. For this reason,
                                                                any actions arising from such reviews should be taken con-
                                                                sistent with existing contractual arrangements." (Chief Coun-
                                                                sel for East Asia to TTL, SAC, 1/24/2000.)
                                                                This approach was reflected in the formulation of the SAC
                                                           program regarding concession management (see Letter of Devel-
                                                           opment Policy).
                                                                The FraserThomas study identified performance deficiencies
                                                           by nearly all active concessionaires and this specifically led to
                                                           cancellation of three. It proposed that with concerted effort con-
                                                           cessionaires and the Government could come to closure on ac-
                                                           ceptable programs before the beginning of the 2001-2002 logging
                                                           of the World Bank supported LIL project .
                                                           season, and encouraged the FA to "accelerate the effectiveness
                                                                                                        .. sothat the process of
                                                           restructuringcan be monitored and guided" (p. 39).
                                                                In response to criticisms raised at that time by Global Wit-
                                                           ness, the ADB explained that unilateral cancellations would likely
                                                           result in legal action by concessionaires and that the Govern-
                                                           ment's liabilities could be substantial (see Letter from Senior Sec-
                                                           tor Specialist, ADB to Global Witness, March 9, 2000).

                                                    -comoliance Fraser Thomas undertook a legal review of the issue of non-
                                                                         and Dotentialconcession cancellation. The advice


     Strictly,concessionsare createdby two interlinkedcontractsbetweenthe Governmentand the concessionaire:an In-
    vestmentAgreementaddressing establishment of wood processing capacity;and a Timber License Agreement providing
    termsof access to forest areas for harvesting and management.




                                                            28

                                                  Forestry ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project
                                              -
                                              -Page
                                               No.'
                                                     providedwas that the only valid groundsfor canceling conces-
                                                     sions are: first, significant non-compliancewith the terms and
                                                     conditions of the concession InvestmentAgreements and Forest
                                                     Timber Licenses; and second, serious and deliberate illegal acts.
                                                     It found that in respect of compliancewith contractual conditions:
                                                          The two contractual documentswere poorly drafted and, be-
                                                          cause they were not founded in regulatory law, were not di-
                                                          rectly enforceable by the Government.As civil contracts, the
                                                          only avenue for an aggrieved party would be civil action,
                                                          which was notjudged a useful vehicle for enforcement or
                                                          cancellation.
                                                          The Government administration of these contracts split re-
                                                          sponsibilities between six government departments with no
                                                          clear roles and responsibilities;record keeping and filing was
                                                           poor, and instructions were either non-existent or contradic-
                                                          tory. The administration of these contracts was, therefore, so
                                                           subject to challenge that, even if non-compliance were dem-
                                                           onstrated, the Governmentwould share culpability.
                                                           Fraser Thomas concluded that cancellation of concessions
                                                     because of contractual non-compliancewould be very difficult,
                                                     would have to be pursuedin civil court, and would almost cer-
                                                     tainly involve counter-suits.

Lack of pre-conditions for Bank en-            18    LILS are loans of USD 5 million or lessfinancing small, experi-
gagement. As one of Cambodia's most                  mental, risky andlor time-sensitive projects in order to pilot prom-
important donors, the World Bank has sub-             ising initiatives and build consensus around them, or experiment
stantial political leverage over the Cambo-          with an approach in order to develop locally based models prior to
dian government, which it could have used             a larger-scale intervention. LlLs are predominantly used in sectors
to demand pre-conditions for its assistance           or situations in which behavioral change and stakeholder attitudes
in reformingthe forest sector. More impor-            are critical to progress, and where `prescriptive' approaches might
tantly, the Bank was in no way compelledto            not work well.
put its name to Cambodia'sforest conces-
sion system. If it genuinely had no scope to               Bank policy dialogue was conducted through the 2000 SAC,
demand pre-conditionsfor its engagement,              which contained conditions regarding a broad range of forestry
then it should have declined to lend its en-          issues raised by earlier Bank-supported analysis and others      -see
dorsementto an un-reformable system and               response to Item 2. The FCMCPP was not considered as effec-
un-reformableoperators. Instead,it chose              tive leverage in view of its small size.
to endorse the failed system and rogue                     Instead, leverage on the forestry sector relied upon the sepa-
concessionaires as the basis for future for-          rate SAC conditionality, which was aimed at authorities in central
est management in Cambodia.That this                  economic agencies. This proved to be a useful strategy through-
would increase the risks of further material          out project implementation and throughout the SAC period, be-
harm to forest-dependent communitieswas               cause it enabled the Bank to carry out a more intensive and
clear.                                         -      higher level dialogue than would otherwise have been possible.

OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment
           -                                   -
Categorization. The World Bank errone-         58-60  Management believes that the decision to classify this project as
ously categorizedthe FCMCPP project as                a "6" was correct and appropriate. The Bank`s environmental
Category 3, despite the fact that the con-            classification of projects depends on the type, location, sensitivity
cession system and companies that the                 and scale of the project as well as the nature and magnitude of its
projectsupports have already comprehen-               potential environmental impacts. The assignment of category is
sively demonstrated how they have "signifi-           typically based on the expected impacts on-the-ground, the guid-
cant adverse environmentalimpacts that                ance given in OP 4.01 and precedents and current practice within
are sensitive, diverse, or unprece-                   the region and Bankwide.
dented".,..Moreover,the logging conces-
sions undoubtedly do have "impacts (that)                   Categorization of projects varies according to the characteris
may affect an area broader than the sites or          tics of each project. In recent years, forestry projects in the region
facilities subject to physicalworks." In addi-        have been categorized as "A," typically when they involved direct




                                                        29

    Cambodia
                                             -
                                              Page
                                             - No.'
ion, evidence from studies of the impacts            nvestment in productionforestry or in plantation activities (e.g.,
)f industrial logging in othertropical coun-         :ertain projectsin China and Laos). Other recent forestry projects
ries would suggest that the impacts of con-          lave been categorized as "8"when their primary goal is improved
;essionaires' logging on Cambodia'sfor-
?stsare likely to be irreversible.... If the         orest regulation, planning or conservation (e.g., projects in Viet-
                                                     lam and Cambodia).
goals of the PAD are realised,the FCMCPP
standsto have an environmentalimpact not                  The "B" rating assigned to this project was based on its inter-
mly across all existingforest concessions            ientions-technical assistance to develop improved planning and
,ut any future concessionsthat the gov-              nventory managementsystems, strengthening Borrower capacity
mment may allocate.                                  `or concession regulation and control, and for forest crime moni-
                                                     .oringand prevention.The decision to make this a "B" rather than
                                                     3 "c" reflectedconcerns over the social and environmental impli-
                                                     :ations of the concession system.
                                                          The files, unfortunately,do not show that the draft Environ-
                                                     nental Data Sheet reflecting the B categorization was finalized.
                                                     The PID, processedby the lnfoshop in October 1999,and for
                                                     Nhich recordsof disclosure are contained in ImageBank, de-
                                                     scribes (in para. 9), the rationalefor the "B" categorization. It also
                                                     discussesthe proposed regulatory regime to be piloted, which
                                                     soughtto anticipate and manage impacts by requiring attention
                                                     throughoutthe planning and operational cycle. The PID stated
                                                     that "the system is intended to ensure that at the large scale plan-
                                                     ning level, particularlyfragile areas are excluded from concession
                                                     operations.The proposed system is to [be] synchronized with the
                                                     nationalenvironmental impact assessment requirements."
                                             7
Prior EA. Bank staff did not producethe        60-61      The projectdesign explicitly recognized that environmental
kind of EIA report called for in the case of         and social problems existed in the management of forest conces-
Category A projects. Infact the level of as-         sions and incorporated measures to address them. Specific plan-
sessment was so lowthat it did not even              ning decisions to be made at each location could not be known in
conform to Category B standards.... Given            advance.The value added of additional up-front impact analysis
that OP 4.01 is primarilyconcernedwith               was, therefore, questionable, and a process-oriented approach
prior assessmentof potential risks, a lack of        was considered preferable. Furthermore, prior to project ap-
prior EA itself constitutesa breach of this          praisal, Fortechand ARD studies under the TA Project did exam-
operating policy.                                    ine social and environmental issues.
                                                          The preparationand provision of an EA is the responsibility of
                                                     the Borrower.The role of the Bank is to advise the Borrower
                                                     (Cambodia) as to the kind of EA to be prepared. Inthis case, the
                                                     Bank advised the Borrower to adopt an approach that incorpo-
                                                     rated environmental and social planning criteria, backed by a
                                                     consultative process, into the planning procedures to be applied
                                                     in every concession.
                                                          Since this was not a Category " A project, no "A-level EA
                                                     process was required. OP 4.01 recognizes that, when the screen-
                                                     ing process determines or national legislation requires, the find-
                                                     ings of a Category "B" EA may be set out in a separate report, or,
                                                     depending on the type of project and nature and magnitude of
                                                     impacts, other options may be considered, such as environmental
                                                     mitigation or management plans (OP 4.01, footnote 11). In this
                                                     case, since no form of prior EA report was undertaken, no find-
                                                     ings or results could be described in either the PAD or the PID, as
                                                     stated in OP 4.01. In addition, the PID did not record the type of
                                                     environmental impacts, make note of the type of EA or EA instru-
                                                     ments needed or of a proposed consultation schedule. While not-
                                                     ing that the processing requirements for a LIL were not well de-
                                             -       veloped at the time, Management acknowledges, nevertheless,
                                                     that the Bank was not in full compliance with OP 4.01.




                                                       30

                                                    Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


                                                -Page
                                                 No?
                                                 31    Managementagrees that the EA work carried out during the pro-
                                                       ject's initialyears was the environmental and social assessment
                                                       (ESIA) requiredof each concession under Cambodian law. Man-
                                                       agement acknowledgesthat the Government has not yet estab-
                                                       lishedsatisfactorystandards for ESIA; to address this, the Bank
                                                       sought supplemental grant resources under the project to finance
                                                       the Government`swork on environmental, social and legal issues.
                                                            Bank staff and ADB consultants had encouraged FA and
                                                       MOEto developjoint TOR for a combined SFMPIESIA in order to
                                                       link plans and the assessment of impacts (Identification Mission
                                                       Aide Memoire 1211998; FraserThomas, 2000~).Given the lack of
                                                       directicn from MOE, the CT1.4 took it upon itself in 2GC: to de-
                                                       velop TOR for an ESIA.A Bank environmental consultant under-
                                                       took a detailedcritical review of the TOR in July 2001, with com-
                                                       ments circulatedto the CTlA and the MOE (Environmental
                                                       consultant,July 2001, and Country Director to Ministers of MAFF,
                                                        MOE, and MOF, in October 2001).
                                                             The sixteen ESlAs prepared by the concessionairesto date
                                                        have been poor. Of these concessions, ten have either been can-
                                                        celled by the Government, withdrawn voluntarily or identified for
                                                        rejection by the FA. The six concessionsthat remain under con-
                                                        sideration are still subject either to rejection or to further require-
                                                        ments to address issues at the strategic and compartment plan-
                                                        ning levels.The Bank will continue to work with the Government
                                                        to improvethe quality of the ESlAs through the ongoing Inde-
-                                                -      pendent Review of SFMPs and ESIAs, recommendations of
                                                        which have been provided to MAFF.

8. Prior EA Consultation.The Bank has a          62-63  As no EA was undertaken prior to project appraisal, there were nc
   responsibilityfor ensuring that this require-        consultationsspecific to the EA process. Nevertheless,the projec
   ment [for EA consultation] is met, however,          builds on the previous TA Project, ADB supported consultations
   as with the environmental assessment, it is          and Bank work during the identification mission (Identification
   not clear what consultation, if any, took            MissionAide Memoire 12/1999). During the Fraser Thomas study
   place before the project began.What is               consultationswere conducted on community forestry, including a
   certain is that the project-affectedgroups           specificworkshop organized by Concern International on conces-
   who are requesting an Inspection Panel               sion-relatedcommunity issues (Fraser Thomas, 2000b). The pro-
   investigation,were not amongst those in-             ject also relied upon several studies done during the prior TA Pro-
   vited to participate in any pre-projectcon-          ject that addressed logging impacts on communities and for whick
   sultation process.                                   consultationswere conducted. See Annex 2.
                                                             The Bank consulted during 1998 with conservation and socia
                                                        NGOs in assisting the Government to draft regulations, design thc
                                                        forest planning system and prepare the various components of
                                                        the guidelines and codes. The project identification mission in-
                                                        cluded a social scientist, who, based on available documents and
                                                        interviews,produced "Social Forestry Guidelines for Forest Con-
                                                        cessions" (Annex 4 to the Aide Memoire, November 1998), which
                                                        was the foundation for addressing social aspects and consultatior
                                                        processes during the project.
                                                             Also, prior to IDA approval, the project was discussed at a
                                                        workshop for government, industry and NGOs on forest certifica-
                                                        tion, held in Phnom Penh in November-December, 1999
                                                        (WWF/Bank.National Forest Certification Workshop Cambodia
                                                        Report, Phnom Penh, November 30-December 1,1999).
                                                              The quality of some consultations may have been affected b!
                                                        the presence of higher level government officials, especially fores
                                                 -      officials. Nevertheless, by the time of project appraisal, it was
                                                        determined that there was sufficient information about the social



                                                          31

    Cumbodiu
                                             -
                 Claimllssue                 -
                                             Page
                                              NO.`
                                                    md environmental aspects of the concession management sys-
                                                    em to design a processto addressthese aspects. The above-
                                                    nentioned consultation processled to a set of criteria and guide-
                                                    ines for sustainable productionlconcessionforest management,
                                                    ;pecifically including ongoing consultations, working relations
                                                    ietween concessionairesand communitieslpeople, and protecting
                                                    he rights of communitieslpeople. See also Item 9.

Consultationon SFMPsand ESIAs. Bank           62-63 The Bank did not finance any activities of concessionaires and
staff working on the project have contended         ias not accepted or endorsedthe claims of concessionaires to
that compliance with this [OP] has been             lave consulted villagers adequately. Consultations have taken
achieved through Bank-supported activities          ,lace because of the Bank`s efforts to improve the Government's
of the concessionaires themselves...The             nanagement and control over the concession system. In Novem-
companies failed to consult with communi-           ,er 2000, CTIAs consultant recommendedthat detailed commu-
ties during their preparation of the plans          iity consultation and participationcould be focused on the com-
that they submitted in 2002. Subsequently,          3artmentlevel of planning. Neitherthe Bank nor FCMCPP staff
when they were compelled to do so in late           agreed with that recommendation,since, at the strategic level,
2002 and early 2003, these were of a poor           iorest use mapping, including set-asides to protect community
standard, with instances in which partici-          -esources,cannot be crediblewithout community consultation.
pants were subject to intimidationby guards
and officials accompanying company repre-                The Forest Concession Management Planning Manual
sentatives. These flawed consultations              [DFW, 2001b) contains several directives on community consulta-
have effectively reduced the scope of forest        tion:
dependent communities to holdthe logging                 "Consultative processes and forest management practices
concessionaires accountable. As a result,                will be adopted to minimize negative environmental impacts
communities' views have not been ac-                     in operable productionforest zones and special management
knowledged in plans that companies will                  areas will be designatedto protect unique environmental val-
use to justify their operations in Cambodia              ues and local community livelihoods in the concession area."
over the next quarter of a century.At the
same time, concessionaires will claim that               "The team is to consult with a wide range of stakeholders...
they have fulfilled consultation requirements            including local communities in a transparent process of public
already, and are therefore under no obliga-              meetings, workshops and informal discussions to introduce
tion to listen to concerns that affected                 different views, important issues...and find compromises and
communities might raise in the future. [See              new solutions."
also pages 24-25,31-33, 37,45,53 and 67                  In determining special management areas for supporting
of the Global Witness report.]                           community livelihoods, concessionaires must "participate in
                                                         consultative processes with communities" in order to "protect
                                                         livelihoods based on traditional wood and non-wood forest
                                                         products."
                                                    ESlA guidelines (Annex 1 of DFW, 2001b) also give guidance on
                                                    the role of communities in forest management, community survey
                                                    techniques, community consultation and conflict resolution.
                                                         CTIA, at its own initiative, distributed TOR for fulfilling the
                                                    ESlA guidelines to NGOs and donors and requested input and
                                                    advice (email from CTIA President to TTL, April 2, 2001). In re-
                                                    sponse to the various difficulties that arose in relation to disclo-
                                                    sure and consultation, the Bank also sought and reached agree-
                                                    ment with the Government to incorporate a Public Affairs Unit into
                                                    the FA in July 2003.
                                             -           The Bank made efforts throughout project implementation to
                                                    develop linkages between NGOs, includingthe NGO Forum and




                                                      32

                                                       Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project
                                                   -
                 Ciaimllssue                       -
                                                   Page
                                                    No.`
                                                             he FA, and also to engage the NGO Forum in a collaborative
                                                            xogram to work with comm~nities.~Since 2002, when it became
                                                            svident that consultationsby the FA and the concessionaires
                                                            Mere inadequate,the Bank has consistently recommended to the
                                                            Sovernmentthat an internationalconsultant be hired to develop a
                                                            detailed and comprehensivestep-by-step manual for community
                                                            :onsultations, do field testings and build initial capacity for com-
                                                            nunity consultations,benefit sharing and protection of CUI-
                                                            :ural/spiritualand livelihood resources. In April 2004, a social for-
                                                            sstry consultantwas selectedto begin these tasks, which are still
                                                            mgoing.
                                                                  The Bank has monitoredthe consultsticn process and called
                                                            the Government'sattention to weaknesses and limitations in re-
                                                            peated Managementletters and meetings (Country Director to the
                                                            Ministerof MAFF in December 2002, Country Director meeting
                                                            with Ministerof MAFF in January 2003, Rural Development Sec-
                                                            lor Directorto FA Directorin June 2002, December 2002 and May
                                                            2003, Rural DevelopmentSector Director to the Minister of MAFF
                                                            in June 2004 and February2005). Under the SAC, the Bank
                                                            caused the Governmentto ensure that SFMP and ESlA disclo-
                                                            sure took place, including monitoring the availability of documents
                                                            in remote commune offices.The Bank put in place measures to
                                                            expand and improve the quality and impact of consultations re-
                                                            lated to forestry, for example, by facilitating input from NGOsto
                                                             discussions on forestry law and the community forestry sub-
                                                            decree.
                                                                  With regardto any particular concession area, the responsi-
                                                             bility to carry out meaningfulconsultations with local communities
                                                             rests with the concessionaireswhen preparing their strategic,
                                                             compartment, and annual plans. To date no concessionaire has
                                                             completed these steps and the Government has issued no cutting
                                                             permits.
                                                                   Management recognizesthat there is very little time remain-
                                                             ing during project implementation (the Closing Date is June 30,
                                                             2005) and given the pace of reform and restructuring of conces-
                                                             sion management, it will be difficult to complete the process withir
                                                             the remaining project period (see Section IV of the Response and
                                                             Item26 below).
                                                              -~                                                      ~~      ~~

intimidation,Perhapsthe most serious                62-      The Bank cannot take action against non-Bankstaff any action
violation of this provision of OP 4.01 con-        63,       can only be taken by the Government. Following the incident of
cerns the intimidationand violence used             31       intimidation on December5, 2002, the Bank immediately sent a
against community representativesin De-                      about...[the] violence outside of the [FA] against people wishing
                                                             letter to the MAFF to expressthe Banks "most serious concerns
cember 2002. In this instancethe FCMCPP
Project Directoris allegedto have made                       to express views on the recently disclosed forest concession
threats against villagers seeking a consulta-                plans-input that, from [our] point of view, has been legitimate
tion session.                                                and constructive." (December 6, 2002 letter to the Minister of
     While the World Bank did protestthe                     MAFFfrom Country Director).The Country Director also sent the
use of violence by the police, it neverthe-                  Bank's regional communications advisor and country manager to
less underminedthis commendablestance                        look further into the issue in Phnom Penh the next week and fol-
by failing to take action againstthe                         lowed up with a visit of his own on January 14-15, 2003. The
FCMCPP Project Director.                           -         Country Director met directly with the Minister of MAFF as well as


      For example, in the fall of 2002, NGO Forum submitted a proposal to the Bank for Community Consultationson Forest
    Concession ManagementPlans, which was in turn submitted to the Norwegian Trust Fundfor Environmentally and So-
    cially Sustainable Developmentfor funding, although it was subsequently rejected.




                                                               33

     Cambodia
                                               -
                                               - Page
                                                 NO.'

                                                      donors and NGOs (January 21, 2003 email from Country Director
                                                      to EastAsia Vice-president).
                                                           The Government`s responseto the Bank included statements
                                                      by the Ministry of Interior,and reports to the MAFF from the FA.
                                                      The reportfrom the FA describedthe FCMCPP Project Director's
                                                      actions in discussionswith villagers on December 2, 2002 and
                                                      November 12, 2002. The Government's account did not support
                                                      the allegation of threats having been made.

Monitoring of EA compliance. Giventhat                Becausethere was no EA, there were no EA conditions, actions
little or no environment assessmentwas                or undertakingsto the Bank with which the Government was spe-
undertaken,this aspect of the operational             cifically obliged to comply,Concessionaires and the Government
policy also appears to have been breached             were, and are, obligatedto comply with national regulations and
by the World Bank.                                    law, including preparationof ESIAs. The Bank provided advice
                                                      and comments on the ESlA TOR and has subsequently reviewed
                                                      ESIAs.When logging was allowed to proceed in the fall of 2001,
                                                      the Bank engaged with the Government on the need for actions to
                                                      ensure compliance with the terms of the Sub-Decree on Forest
                                                      ConcessionManagement,leading to the Prakas and suspension
                                                      of loggingand log transport.The Bank also provided advice on
                                                      the quality of environmentaland social consultations and compli-
                                                      ance with the logging and log transport suspension.
                                                           A Bank environmentalconsultant participated in nearly all
                                                      supervision missions (see also footnote 3 in the Response, Item 6
                                                      above, and Annex 3 on Supervision). The environmental consult-
                                                      ant produced several substantial reports, including ones cited in
                                                      the Global Witness report attached to the Request.



Consideration of Indigenous Peoples.                  The Indigenous Peoples policy is not mentioned in the PAD. Ap-
Cambodia's indigenous people,notablythe               plicability of OD 4.20 was recognized during preparation (May 4,
Kouy minority(who are representedamong                 1999email of Bank consultant regarding social issues for the
those who have drafted lettersto the In-              PCD review) but no efforts were made to develop policies and
spection Panel), are directly affectedby the          plans in accordance with OD 4.20. Rather, the project approach
logging concessionaires   .... Itis difficultto       was to develop, together with and as part of the general consulta-
find any evidence that the World Bank has             tion process, criteria and guidelines for community engagement in
observed either the spirit or the letter of           concession areas with local people, including issues such as cus-
these requirements [indigenousPeoples                 tomary use of resources,traditional property rights and symbolic
not to suffer adverse effects, informedpar-           value and religious practicesassociated with forests (see Annex 4
ticipation; and benefit from development              of the Project Identification Mission Aide-Memoire, December
investmentsof OD 4.201... [.I                          1998).
                                                            Management acknowledgesthat the Bank was not in full
                                                      compliance with OD 4.20.and that, in hindsight, screening studies
                                                      and a framework IPDP, along with more discussion of the issue,
                                                      would have been more appropriate during project design. The
                                                      consultation guidelines discussed below outline the process that
                                                      will require that IndigenousPeoples concerns be addressed, in
                                                       keepingwith OD 4.20.
                                                            In hindsight, screening studies and a framework IPDP, along
                                                      with more discussion of the issue, would have been appropriate.
                                                      The project approach was to develop, together with and as part of
                                                      the general consultation process, criteria and guidelines for com-
                                                       munity engagement in concession areas with local people, includ-
                                                       ing issues such as customary use of resources, traditional prop-
                                                      erty rights and symbolic value and religious practices associated
                                                      with forests (see Annex 4 of the Project Identification Mission




                                                        34

                                              -   Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project



                                              -Page
                                               No.`
                                                      4ide-Memoire,December 1998).The consultation guidelines dis-
                                                      :ussed below will outlinethe process that will requirethat Indige-
                                                      ious Peoples concerns be addressed, in keeping with OD 4.20.
                                                           A June 2003 Back to Office (BTO) report of the Bank social
                                                      Scientist states that "social issues and impacts of concessionson
                                                      oca1communities have been dealt with inadequately in the past,
                                                      md relations betweenthese and the concessionaires, and to
                                                      some extent [FA], are characterized by mistrust and non-
                                                      :ooperation." The BTO "recommendedthat this aspect [social
                                                      ssues] is given increasedattention for the remaining period of the
                                                      xoject." The BTO was accompanied by the TOR for the social
                                                      forestryconsultant to revise comprehensive guidelines for ccm-
                                                      nunity consultations, including specific provisions for Indigenous
                                                      Peoples,benefit sharing and protection of culturallspiritual and
                                                      livelihoodresources. The consultant was selected in April 2004 to
                                                      begin this work. See also Item 9.
                                                           The Bank has recognizedthe importance of this issue. The
                                                      October 2004 Aide Memoire states that "it [is] essential that unre-
                                                      stricted access of villagers to resin trees, collection of rattan and
                                                      other NTFPs is ensured by the concessionaire." The Aide Mem-
                                                      oire further states that "the mission recommends that the Social
                                                      Forester'sTOR be revisedto apply to all forms of productionfor-
                                                      est, and to be able to address the strategic (concession-wide) as
                                                      well as the compartment level planning. Furthermorethe mission
                                                      suggests that provisions of the World Bank Operational Directive
                                                      (OD4.20) on Indigenous Peoples would be incorporated into the
                                                      guidelines."
                                              -             See also response to Item 21.

IPDP. World Bank staff working on the          65-67  No separate IPDPs were prepared prior to project appraisal. In-
FCMCPP informed GlobalWitness in April                digenous Peoples issues were to have been embedded in the
2004, that the Bank deemed that no indige-
nous people'splan was required...the ar-              SFMPs and ESlAs prepared by the concessionaires (see also
                                                      Item 12). Subjects to have been addressed were identification of
gumentthat the Bank hasfulfilled its obliga-          forest dependent communities, consultations about their rights
tions underthis and other operational                 and forest use and exclusion of areas and species (e.g., resin
policiescourtesy of social impact work con-           trees and rattan) from the operating area, all of which were to
tained within the concessionaires' SFMPs              form the basis of any additional interventions regarding indige-
and ESlAs is very difficultto sustain. Here it        nous communities.
is worth referringto the findings of the Au-
gust 2004 GFA Terra Systems assessment                      The Bank acknowledges and agrees with the findings of the
of the six sets of plans approved by the              GFATerra Systems assessment of August 2004, which. inter alia
FCMCPP....The World Banks failure to                  find that guidelines for community consultations are dispersed in
abide by this operational policy has meant            various documents and manuals. The Bank had already acknowl.
that the FCMCPP has taken no account of               edged this, because the SFMPs and ESlAs were inadequate and
the potential impacts of concession activity          the process of consultation flawed. As a consequence,the Bank
on indigenouspeoples, or their rights (to             took further steps to assist the Government in preparing revised
land in particular) under Cambodian law.              community consultations guidelines, with a detailed step by step
This in turn has allowed concessionairesto    -        manual,including provisionsfor Indigenous Peoples (see also
                                                       Item 12).These guidelines are under preparation.



Criteriafor Financing.The World Bank           68-7(   Management believes that the project is in compliance with the
has breachedthis Operational Policy in its             1993OP 4.36. The project is consistent with the OP's prohibition
provisionof loan-backedtechnical assis-               on financing of logging in primary tropical moist forest. No such
tance to concessionairesthat is designed to            logging hasbeenfnanced by the project. Concessionaires have
facilitatetheir future logging operations. OP          received no IDA financial support, including none for preparation
4.36 does state that "When the government              of the SFMP/ESIAs. The project has financed systems develop-




                                                         35

   Cambodia
                                           -
                                             Page
                                           - No.`
ias (made a commitment to move towards            nent, capacity building, inventoriesand field controls as permitted
ustainable management of primarytropical          )ythe policy. During implementation,an internal examination
noistforest), the Bank may finance im-            Vulnerability Assessment, 2003) of compliance with OP 4.36 was
rovements in the planning, monitoring,and         :onducted.
ield control of forestry operationsto maxi-
nize the capability of responsibleagencies            The Bank's engagementin Cambodianforestry and its sup-
o carry out the sustainable management of         ~ortfor the FCMCPP have been measuredand deliberate. Both
he resource." The critical point here, how-       he design of activitiesto be financed, and the assessment, per
3ver is that the Bank has allowed the             he guidance of OP 4.36, of the Government commitment have
XMCPP to go beyond this in its active             ieen based on frank dialogue with the Government and consulta-
;upport of the logging concessionaires.As         ion with other donors and NGOS.
ioted above, the companies with which the             The 1993 OP 4.36 explicitly allowed the Bank to provide fi-
iroject has engaged are in any case par-          lancing in forest regulation and managementwhere there was
icularly undeserving beneficiariesof loan         ;lear Government commitmentto sustainable and conservation-
noney. In addition, this operational policy       iriented forest management. Paragraph 1a states that: `Where
ncludesfive criteria for what constitutesa        he government has made this commitment,the Bank may fi-
government's commitmentto move toward             lance improvements in the planning, monitoring, and field control
wstainable management of (primary moist           if forestry operations to maximize the capability of responsible
ropical)forests". It is doubtfulthat the          agencies to carry out the sustainable management of the re-
2ambodian government can be considered            jource'.]
n compliance with all or even many of
.hese.                                                 Furthermore, the document upon which the OP was based
                                                  :The Forest Sector: A World Bank Policy Paper, World Bank,
                                                  1991) provided the following additional guidance with regard to
                                                  such support (see p. 66):
                                                       "If such conditions are present [e.g., the Government com-
                                                       mitment to sustainable and conservation-orientedforestry],
                                                       projects will bejudged on their individual merits. If they are
                                                       not present, Bank support will be restricted to operations that
                                                       directly help countries achieve them. Such operations will be
                                                       appropriately limited in scope, sequenced, and specifically
                                                       targeted at helping countries meet the stated conditions".
                                                       This is the approach the Bank adoptedfor the FCMCPP. The
                                                  Bank consulted with the Government and received repeated as-
                                                  surances of commitment to a sustainableforest policy. The Bank
                                                  approached the project as a vehicle to test and, to the extent pos-
                                                  sible, convert that commitment to an ongoing program. For exam-
                                                  ple:
                                                        In response to the Forest PolicyAssessment in 1996, a pro-
                                                        posal for technical assistance was made to the MAFF, which
                                                        it accepted. The program was funded under the TA Project.
                                                        In 1996, the Senior Minister in charge of Rehabilitation and
                                                        Development and of MEF presented measures "to strengthen
                                                        the control undertaken by competent authorities to enforce
                                                        obligations made by concession holders... and to pursue ap-
                                                        propriate approaches covering among others the utilization of
                                                       forestry resources by households,farmers and the small en-
                                                        terprises."
                                                        Following the Forest Policy Assessment, in July 1996,the
                                                        Government established a National Committee on the Or-
                                                        ganization and Implementationof Forest Policy.The Commit-
                                                        tee has not been as vibrant a forum for policymaking and de-
                                                        bate as hoped, but its Secretariat, in the FA, has functioned
                                                        as the counterpart for the contemporary donor-government
                                                        policy dialogue.
                                                        In the Letter of Development Policy (February, 1999) pre-

                                               Forestry ConcessioniManagement and Control Pilot Project




                                                       pared in associationwith the SAC, the Minister of MEF wrote:
                                                       "Present loggingconcessions operate under a legal and
                                                        regulatoryframework which does not give adequate consid-
                                                        eration to such criticalfactors as area to be harvested,forest
                                                        inventories,and biodiversityprotection. (para. 14)"
                                                       "Under communityforestry, the Government needsto de-
                                                       velop means for awarding long-termforest tenure rights to 10-
                                                        cal communities, indigenous peoples, and other target
                                                        groups (para. 15)."
                                                        In 1999,the Prime Minister issued a "Declaration on Man-
                                                        agement of Forests and Elimination of Forest IllegalActivity,"
                                                        mandating a "crackdown"on illegal logging and other meas-
                                                        ures to introduce controlsover the forestry sector.
                                                        Experiencewith technical studies (see Item 2) and comple-
                                                  mentary actions, such as suspension of log exports in 1996, can-
                                                  cellation of twelve loggingconcessions in 1999, termination of the
                                                  "log collection quota system," and increases in timber royalties,
                                                  was satisfactory.
                                                        The progress of the Government on the reform agenda was,
                                                   and continues to be, uneven but has repeatedly provided encour-
                                                   agementshared by the Bank and NGOs, including Global Wit-

                                                  with his political will illegal logging can be brought under control -
                                                   ness (press release,January 22, 1999):"Hun Sen has shown that

                                                   this gives real optimismfor the future of Cambodia's forests and
                                                   should impress the international community, said GlobalWitness'
                                                   PatrickAlley."
                                                        An important component of the Bank`s willingness to deepen
                                                   engagement in forestry was the readiness of the Government to
                                                   engage an "Independent Monitor of Forest Crime Reporting."This
                                                   arrangement was formulated as an integral part of the SAC pro-
                                                   gram and the FCMCPPand involved partnership$swith UNDP,
                                                   FAO, UK DflD, and the Australian Agency for International Devel-
                                                   opment (AusAID).

                                                                                                    ~~~~
Consultation. The requirementthat "Bor-            See response to Items 8,9 and 12.
rowers identify and consult the interest
groups involved in a particularforest area"
has not been met. This deficiency relates
closely to the breaches of Operational Pol-
icy 4.01 on EnvironmentAssessment and
Operational Directive4.20 on Indigenous
Peoples concerningconsultation.
High Ecological Value. OP 4.36 states              The Bank has not financed logging or infrastructure in high eco-
that "In forests of high ecologicalvalue, the      logical value areas (or any others). As noted in the Global Wit-
Bank finances only preservationand light,          ness report (p. 69), Cambodia has an extensive national pro-
nonextractive use of forest resources."As          tected areas system that provides protection for critical natural
described above, the World Bank undertook          habitats at the macro landscape level. Furthermore, the Bank has
no environment assessment ahead of the             supported studies under the Biodiversity Management and Pro-
FCMCPPthat might have identified such              tected Areas Projectto address Prey Long. Standards and guide-
forests of high ecologicalvalue. Instead,the       lines developed for and under the FCMCPP address micro-level
project has advisedthe Cambodian gov-              considerations by requiringthe mapping of forest use, including
ging by three concessionaires... in the
ernment to allow another 25 years of log-          environmentally and socially sensitive Special Management Ar-
                                                   eas.
highly ecologicallyvaluable Prey Long for-
est. This area was identifiedby an IUCN                  SFMPs are 25-year plans and, under the project planning
(World ConservationUnion) study three              process, subsequent compartment (5-year) and annual plans are




                                                     37

    Cambodia
                                              -
                                              -Page
                                               No.`
years before the FCMCPP commenced as                to be developed and reviewed. All are expected to address areas
3 "Remote, and possibly very old, lowland           3f ecologicaland othervalues. One reasonfor the initial "U" (un-
forest area with major wildlife populations...      satisfactory) rating of the project in December 2002 (see Item 29)
feasibilityof a World Heritage Nomination           was the Government`sremoval of the compartment plan require-
shouldbe established (emphasis in origi-            ment, which was reinstated as of May 29, 2003 (Letterfrom the
nal)."
The FCMCPP [...I                                    FA Directorto the President of the Cambodia Timber Industry
                    took no account of the          Association).
obvious environmental and social impacts
of the plans of two companies with adjacent
concessionsto drive parallel roads into
Cambodia'slast intact lowland evergreen
Forest, Prey Long. Again the Bank took no
correctiveaction.
[See also page 45 of the Global Witness
report.]

                                              -
Degradation of Critical Natural Habitats.      71   Bank management believes that the project is in compliance with
The concession companies have already               OP 4.04. As notedfor claim 16 above, the studies supported by
significantlydegraded the natural habitats          the Bank will help to identify gaps in Cambodia's protected area
within their concessions. Their past behav-         system. No degradation of critical habitats has occurreddue to
jour and, indeed the contents of the six sets       the project. No concessions have been issued over new areas as
of plans that the FCMCPP has approved (in           a result of the project and planning guidelines for existing conces-
terms of proposed over-cutting) indicate            sions developed under the project preclude issuance of cutting
that they will continue to do so.                   compartment-5 years; and annual coupe) forest management
                                                    permits until a three tiered (strategic concession-wide-25 years;

                                                    planning process is completed (seeAnnex 6). The planning
                                                    guidelines include numerous provisions to ensure identification,
                                                    assessmentand proper planning for critical habitats.These is-
                                                    sues have been carefully reviewed and supervised by the Bank.
                                                    No formal approvals by the Government to allow cutting have
                                                    been issued to date (see also Items 19and 36).
                                              -
Consultation. As described in relation to      71   See response to Item 9.
breaches of operational policies on envi-
ronmentassessment and indigenous peo-
ples, consultation has been absent or of a
very poor standard, both during preparation
and implementationof the FCMCPP. More-
over, the Bank did not ensure that the Bor-
 rower (ForestAdministration) invited the
stakeholderparticipation in planning, de-
sign, implementation,monitoring and
evaluationthat this operational policy calls
for.                                           -
 Biodiversity Conservation in Forest           71    "Biodiversity Conservation Guidelines for the Managed Forest,"
 Plans. It appearsthat the project`s archi-          prepared in collaboration with WCS, have been adopted (and
tects and executors have declined to con-            revised) by the Government under the project..Biodiversity as a
 sider the forests slatedfor logging as natu-        concern in relation to concessions was identified early in the
 ral habitats.While the six concessionaires          Bank`s work on forestry in Cambodia. A Biodiversity Code of
 endorsed by the FCMCPP have, as re-                 Practice was developed as part of the Identification Mission and
 quired, made referenceto biodiversity con-          was integral to the Sub-Decree on Forest Concession Manage-
 servationwithin their plans, the quality of         ment as developed under the SAC. On the basis of consultation
 this work has been abysmal, as a recent             with NGOs (WCS, Flora Fauna International,WWF), revisions
 study of these components of...[two] plans          were proposed and the Bank mobilized Bank-NetherlandsPart-
 makes clear.                                        nership Program grant resources to assist in a "Field Testing of
                                                     Biodiversity Conservation Guidelines for the Managed Forest Pro-



                                                      38

                                                 Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project




                                                    iect."Under the project,WCS was contracted and worked collabo-
                                                    rativelywith FA and one concessionaire (SL International)on a
                                                    series of studies and field inventories. Field testing of this work
                                                    was constrainedby the suspension of logging, which prevented
                                                    exploration of some issues at the felling block level. Nevertheless,
                                                    the study successfully led to revised Guidelines that were adopted
                                                    by the FA.



4 related World Bank standard that the        73-74 Responsesto these claims are addressed specifically under OP
xoject has not met is its Bank Procedure            13.05, Items 23-41.
BP 8.40 on technical assistance,which
accompaniesthe Operational PolicyOP
5.40 concerning the same issue. BP 8.40:
`Because supervision offers an opportunity
for informal TA, Bank staff must remain
aware of importance of effective supervi-
sion to the implementation and ultimate
success of the TA."
     Several breaches of the Operational
Policy on supervision outlined above, also
contravenethis section of BP 8.40. Defi-
ciencies in the work of the TA consultants
to the FCMCPP that suggest inadequate
supervision by the World Bank include:
     Provision of assistance and advice to
     all logging companies, includingthose
     that should have been excluded under
     the terms of reference issuedto the
     technical assistance consultants.
     The refusal of consultantsto the
     FCMCPP to take account of the legal
     prohibition on cutting resin-producing
     trees.
     The distorted score-card system of
     assessing concessionaires' manage-
     ment plans.
e    The poor standard of the TA-supported
     forest cover survey.
This has contributedto the same negative
outcomes as breachesof the operational
oolicv on suDervision.
I    .                                        -
Spirit Forestsand Archaeological Sites.       74-75  Bank management believes that the project complies with OPN
The six logging concessionswhose plans               11.03. SFMPs and ESlAs have not been "approved" (the Gov-
the FCMCPP has recommendedfor ap-                    ernment review process is ongoing) and the Bank has not con-
proval contain both spirit forests and sites         veyed any endorsement. On the contrary, the Bank has ex-
of archaeological importancethat undoubt-            pressed its serious reservations, specifically concerning spirit
edly constitute cultural property. Despite           forestkacred sites and other sites of social and cultural signifi-
this, it appearsthat the World Bank carried          cance to local communities. As stated in the October 2004 Aide
out no survey of these sites prior to the            Memoire: "The mission...finds it essentialthat as part of the im-
project'scommencement.This omission                  provements of the SFMP, and latest when the first compartment
falls in line with the Bank's erroneous ac-          level plan is being prepared, participatory mapping of community
ceptance of the existing concession                  use forest (Resin trees, Sacred siteslspiritual forest, burial forest,
boundariesas an appropriatebasisfor                  watershed protection, village forest, and bamboo forest) are un-
managementof the country's production                dertaken. These should be excised from any form of logging."




                                                      39

    Cambodia




forest.                                           Guidelinesdeveloped underthe project call for identification and
     There is strong circumstantialevidence       designationof Special ManagementAreas and specifically refer
     that many communities, particularly          to sacred groves, spirit forests and archaeological sites.
     those comprising indigenouspeoples,
     have spirit forest areas. Despitethis,            Since community consultations so far have been inadequate,
     only one of the companies endorsed by        archaeologicalsites may not yet have been identified. Duringfu-
     the FCMCPP,...has identifieda spirit         ture communityconsultationscarried out according to the detailed
     forest in its plan...In mid 2004, a group    manualunder preparation, cultural resources, to the extent these
     of provincial, national and international    are knownto localcommunities,will De considered in line with the
     NGOs facilitated public consultations        March 2001 Manual criteria, according to which cultural resource
     concerning the six sets of SFMPs and         areas will be excludedfrom commercial logging and reported to
     ESlAs approved by the FCMCPP.                the archaeologicalauthorities.
     ..One of the common concerns that                 `Chance finds" of archaeologicalsites are not currently ad-
     participants' voiced was companies' in;      dressed underforest concession contracts in Cambodia.The
     clusion of spirit forests in their man-      Bank will, priorto closure of the project, seek the Government's
     agement plans; a factor apparently not       agreementto include provisionsfor appropriate treatment of
     considered by the Bank or the                chancefinds in revisedconcession contracts and to introduce
     FCMCPP.                                      chancefind provisions into annual operating plans to ensure that
     The six concessions also contain im-         such sites are preserved.
     portant archaeological sites. As with
     the spirit forests, it appearsthat a sig-
     nificant number of these have not been
     identified and excisedfrom production
     areas in the SFMPs producedby the
     six companies.



The World Bank contravened this policy in         Although not required under Bank policies, proper disclosure and
its failure to ensure that the Borrower(For-      improvements in the quality of the consultations in the SFMP and
est Administration) provided the conces-          ESlA processwere a pressing concern of the Bank, Transparency
sionaires' SFMPs and ESlAs to community           was viewed by the Bank as a critical element of the reform proc-
representativesin November2002. Infact,           ess and of overall governance and accountability issues.
direct responsibilityfor this breach lay with           Immediatelyafter the CG in June 2002, at which disclosure 01
the Bank`s own office in Phnom Penh. Hav-         the SFMPS and ESIASwas agreed, the Bank encouraged the
ing agreed to assist with the disclosure          Governmentto move rapidly. Over the course of the following four
process, Bank representativesthen in-             months, the FA resisteddisclosure, leading the Bank to establish
formed communitiesthat they would be              disclosure as the remainingtrigger for the second and final SAC
unable to providethem with copies of the          tranche release. Duringthe negotiation process, the Bank con-
plans.                                            sulted with members of the TWG, industry, NGOs and others, to
The negative impacts of this breach were          convey the importanceattached to this issue.
two-fold. In the first instancethose groups
most directly affected by the concession-               The Governmentagreed, after much pressure from the Bank
aires' activities were denied importantin-         donors and other stakeholders, on October 17, 2002 to disclose
formation about the companies planned             the draft SFMPS and the FA committed to placing Khmer ver-
future operations. Secondly, a precedent-         sions of the plans in each affected commune, accompanied by a
setting opportunityto ensure that the Forest       letter of explanationspecifically allowing unlimited disclosure,
Administration observed its legal obligations      later confirmed by Bank staff during field visits. The public com-
to disclose such informationwas lost               ment period, announcedon October 29 for a period of 19 days,
through the Bank`s decision to intercede          was later officially extended, from November 11to January 31.
and take on the government`slegal respon-         The Bank agreedthat its PIC would provide a supplemental
sibility.                                         venue for disclosure (not the sole site) to ensure that people had
 (More detail is providedon pages 29-31 of         ample, unfettered access to the plans and maps.
the GlobalWitness report.)                              Two black and white copies of each SFMPwere received
                                                  from the FA project advisor, based on the request from the Bank
                                                  the previous day, and placed in the PIC on November 11,2002.
                                                  The NGO Forum noted that color coding of the maps was essen-
                                                  tial. Because of the size of the maps, 24 hours would be needed
                                                  to make two color copies of each SFMP. A group that had gath-



                                                    40

                                             Forestv ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project




                                                 red outsidethe Bank's Phnom Penh office requestedvia a
                                                 iember of parliament,with whom Bank representatives had met
                                                 arlier in the day to resolvethe issueof color copies, that color
                                                 opies of the SFMPs be provided immediatelyto representatives
                                                 If each of the communities present-up to 10 copies of each
                                                 ;FMP (for a total of more than 300 copies). Bank staff stated that
                                                 it least one color copy of each SFMP could be provided to repre-
                                                 entativesthe next day, and that meanwhile community represen-
                                                 atives could consult the information available in the PIC, as the
                                                 iext best alternative.
                                                      On November 12, a limited number of representatives of the
                                                 :ommunitiesand international NGOs agreed to come to the Bank
                                                 )fficeto discussthe situation. The available color copies were
                                                 rovided to those representatives and a system by which further
                                                 :opies could be requested was put in place. Several copies were
                                                 rovided to NGOs and other interested groups.
                                                      Beyond the end of the formal consultation period on January
                                                 31, 2003, the Bank stated that consultationswere to be continued
                                                 with affected communities until there was agreement on a satis-
                                                 actory plan; and only then would plans be approved (January 21,
                                                 2003 email from Country Director to East Asia VP).
                                                      The Bank acknowledgesthat public disclosure of documents
                                                 :odd have been planned better. The Government-and the
                                                 3ank4id not manage appropriately expectations for the disclo-
                                                 jure process.

ODlOP 13.05 Project Supervision
               -
Compliancewith ODlOP 13.05. See items            3ank management believes that the project is incompliance with
24-41on claims related to supervision.           the OD (through July 19,2001) and subsequently, with the curren
                                                 3P. This statement applies to responses to Items 23 through 38.
                                                      Since approval of the project in June 2000, Bank staff con-
                                                 ducted nine formal supervision missions, including an MTR. The
                                                 TTL was based in a neighboring country during preparation and
                                                 early implementation of the project, and in Cambodia from August
                                                 2002 until January 2004. This arrangement allowed regular on-
                                                 time communication with the Government, donors, and other
                                                 partners. The Bank has utilized a substantial supervision budget,
                                                 augmented by several trust funds. Actual resources devoted to
                                                 supervision are greater than accounting records indicate, since
                                                 forestry policy and governance issues were also supervised under
                                                 the SAC and the project has benefitedfrom these efforts. See
                                                 also para. 16 in the narrative and Annex 3 on supervision fre-
                                                 quency and composition.

Technical Assistance Criteria. [The Bank         The project did not target concessionaires as recipients of techni-
is in breach of OP 13.05 by] allowing pro-       cal assistance and none has been provided through the
ject technical assistanceto be offered to        FCMCPP. Concessionaires have borne the costs of field studies,
companies that should have been excluded         analyses, assessments and plan preparation of SFMPs. Never-
underthe terms of reference givento the          theless, as part of the implementation of its regulatory process,
TA consultants.This has had the impact of        the Government has provided direction to ensure consistency and
increasingthe chances of these companies         quality in data gathering, analysis and presentation. The Govern-
passingthroughthe planning process, de-          ment establishes and explains the objectives and standards; pri-
spite their track records and obvious un-        vate industry must meet the standards, either from its own re-
suitability as concession managers.              sources or by hiring competent technical expertise, in seeking
     The Bank's decision to assist the com-      approval. Technical direction by the regulatory authority is neces-
panies had the effect of loweringthe bar in      sary and was not considered as technical assistance as such.



                                                   41

     Cambodia
                                                 -
                                                 -Page
                                                  No.`
their favour. It robbed Cambodiaof a crucial
opportunityto measure the concession-
aires' commitment and capacity and to
show the door to operators that had already
damaged its forests and abusedthe rights
of its inhabitants.
      None of the concessionaireshad forest
      sufficient for a 25 year cutting cycle as
      required by their contracts.
      The World Bank allowedor perhaps
      even instructed the FCMCPPto pro-
      vide advice and other forms of assis-
      tance to all 13 of the companies that
      embarked on the productionof man-
      agement plans. This highlightsone of
      the main flaws in the World Bank's su-
      pervision of its project-the willingness
      to allow loan moneyto be usedto sup-
      port concessionaires that have a well-
      documented history of illegalactivities.    -
    ~~
Sub-contracting of Technical Work and             22-   Conflictsof interest in Cambodianforestry have been recognized
                                                ~
Conflicts of Interest. The FCMCPPhas              23,   by the Bank from its first involvement (World BanWUNDPIFAO
persistently refused to recognize the prob-       41-43 Forest Policy Assessment, 1996, pp 25-27). The PAD made note
lem of concessionaires sub-contractingall               of both petty and large scale corruption (p. 4) and stated: "Unlike
technical forestry work to ForestAdmini-                current practice, salaries and allowance of DFW supervisory (em-
stration staff. This practice is symptomatic            phasis added) staff will be paid by the DFW and not by conces-
of two serious problems associated with the             sionaires." However, the pool of foresters in Cambodia is limited,
concession system in Cambodia. Firstly,                 and Government employees in Cambodia are poorly compen-
concessionaires' reliance on government                 sated and outside employment is common. The Bank discussed
officials to undertake even the most mun-               with the Government the issue of Government staff working pri-
dane technical tasks on their behalf is evi-            vately as consultants to concessionairesand cautioned against
dence enough of their unsuitabilityas man-              the Government's appearingto condone conflict of interests
agers of the country's forests. Secondly, the           (Management Letter, December 14,2000,from the Country Di-
companies' employment of the same offi-                 rector to MAFF, and from the Country Director to three Ministers,
cials responsiblefor regulatingtheir activi-            October 4,2001). The Government assured the Bank that Gov-
ties sets up a fundamental conflict of inter-           ernment staff who had worked as consultants would not be in-
ests; one that gives Forest Administration              volved in evaluation of concessionswith which they had worked.
staff a stake in the continuedtenure of the
concessionaires.The Bank should have                        This issue was monitored during supervision. For example,
 prevented its project from assistingcompa-             the TRT recommendations do not reflect a bias in favor of con-
 nies that had `captured` the officials respon-         cessionaires. Involvement of the Forestry Research Institute (the
 sible for regulating their activities. Con-            Government agency affiliatedwith FA) is documented in the
versely, it has permitted an employee of                SFMP and ESlA documentsthat were made publicly available.
 one [enterprise's] main shareholdersto                      The Bank has investigatedthe involvement of the Project
work as Directorof the FCMCPP Project                   Management Unit Director with a concession company and found
 Management Unit.                                       no conflict of interest. He assisted the company in commercial
      The Bank and the projectteam de-                  correspondence in a follow up to the 1999 Certification Workshop
 clined to address the serious conflict of              The particular concession company is partly State-owned and it is
 interests that that the documents'author-              common for Government staff to be assigned to such duties. As
ship posed. Five of the concessionaireshad              Project Management Unit Director, the individual had no regula-
 commissioned plans from staff of the Forest            tory authority or duties related to the concerned company.
Administration and Ministry of Agriculture,
 Forestryand Fisheries-the same institu-
 tions responsiblefor deciding whether or
 not the companies should be allowedto
 resume operations.Three more companies
 had hired the Forest Research Institute; an
 organisation establishedwithin the Forest
                                                       I




                                                         42

                                                  Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project
                                              -
                                              -'age
                                               No?
idministration.The World Bank`s staff con-
ultant drew the Banks attentionto this
;Sue in July 2001; however his advice was
lot heeded by either the FCMCPPtask
nanageror the project team.                   -
:onsultation on ManagementPlans.               `2,    `he Bank acknowledgesthat consultations carried out thus far
The Bank is in breach of OP 13.05 by] not      !4-25  ire inadequateto provideinput to strategic level zonation and to
nsuring that the planning processesfor                nsure meaningfuldialogue between concessionaires and com-
jFMPs and ESlAs carried out under the                 nunities.The social forestry consultant preparing the revised
iuspices of the project includedadequate              :onsultationguidelines underthe project is addressing these is-
ind appropriate public consultation.Note              ues. Inthis context, there has been debate about whether in-
hat consultationis required under Cambo-              jepth, high quality communityconsultations and negotiations on
jian law (Sub-Decree on Forest Conces-                Ienefit sharing should take place at the strategic 25-year planning
;ion Management). This has weakened the               evel, or at the 5-year compartmentlevel. While the Bank and FA
Iargaining position of communitiesin their            agree that some consultations have to take place up front as input
lealings with the companies. It has enabled           o the SFMPs, some villageslcommunities would not experience
:oncessionaires to ignore the interests of            ogging operations in the next 20 years. For such vil-
:ommunities and remain unaccountableto                ageslcommunities,the consultations and negotiations with con-
hose who live in and aroundtheir conces-              :essionaires might put pressureon villagers, and they might
sions.                                                agree now to arrangementsto which they might not agree when
    The [Bank] staff consultant`s comments            `uturelogging operationstake place.
     [on mechanismsfor communityconsul-
    tation] were ignored by the Cambodian                  Commentson the ESlA TOR expressing disagreement with
     governmentand notfollowed up by the              :he CTlA position were conveyed in a Management Letterfrom
     World Bank.                                      :he EAP Country Directorto the FA Director (October 4, 2001).

D    The response of the World Bank to the                 See also responses in Items 9 and 12.
     lack of community consultationin com-
     panies' ESlA preparation has been to
     adoptthe position taken by the Cam-
     bodianTimber IndustryAssociation. In
     total contradiction with the position ad-
     vocated by the staff consultant in 2001,
     the Bank now argues that consultation
     on social impacts can be deferredto
     the five year planning level.
Ignoring Evidenceof IllegalActivities          25-28  //legal Logging. The Bank had supported initial studies of law
     MlegalLogging.The World Bank used         31     enforcement and design of proposals for strengthening controls
     the FCMCPP to support aspects of the             on illegal logging and log transport under the TA Project.The ille-
     ForestCrime Monitoringand Reporting              gal logging situation was analyzed nationally (with input from
     Projectsituated within the ForestAd-             Global Witness and other sources). The final report, "Findings anc
     ministration.However,the Bank de-                Recommendationsof the Log Monitoring and Logging Control
     clinedto make the connection between             Project" (DAl, 1998) noted: "evidence collected through
     the findings of the forest crime project         ...surveillance activities indicatesthat logging is occurring on al-
     and the FCMCPP'sparallel efforts to              most all concessions. Without further monitorinq. it is difficult to
     reformthe concessionaires....The                 determine to what extent uncontrolled loaqina is conducted by
     World Bank likewise acknowledgedon               concessionaires, their sub-contractors or Roachers" (p. 14) (em-
     several occasionsthat the concession-            phasis added).
     aires were continuingto break the
     law...Notwithstandingthese expres-                    The second component of the FCMCPP, Concession Regu-

     sions of concern,the Bank continued              lation and Control, was intended specifically to provide the FA

     to allow its projectto assist these same         with the mobility, communications, training and protocols to moni.

     companies.                                       tor plan compliance and to distinguish between criminal and non-
                                                      criminal problems. To date, the project has provided field equip-
                                                      ment and technical assistancefor protocol development.
                                                            Fraser Thomas (2000a) also investigated the issue of legal
                                                      non-compliance by concessionaires, in parallel with a similar re-
                                                      view underthe FAONNDP-supported Forest Crime Monitoring
                                                      and Reporting Project. At the time there were only four serious



                                                        43

Cambodia




                                             offenses in the effective Cambodian Laws (Decree 35 of 1986,
                                             Regulation049 of 1986 and Decisions 05 of 1995 and 02 of 1996)
                                             -unauthorized cutting of trees, transport of timber, export of tim-
                                             ber and road construction. A detailed review of reports on forest
                                             crime was used to determine whether any of the allegations could
                                             and should be entered intothe crime monitoring system. Review-
                                             ers could find fewer than thirteen instances where reports con-
                                             tained corroborating information(pictures, taped conversations
                                             with third party witnesses or witnesses willing to testify). With in-
                                             formation from all sources, FraserThomas (2000a) found a total
                                             of 47 allegations awaiting inquiry and investigation. Four compa-
                                             nies had previously been fined and received sanctions for unau-
                                             thorized cutting and one of these concessions was cancelled. Of
                                             the six concessions currently in the planning process, two each
                                             have three outstanding allegations and the other four have none.
                                             FraserThomas (2000a) concluded: "the existing forest crime da-
                                             tabase and the actions by the Government so far are considered
                                             inadequateto recommend [termination]" (pp. 24-25).
                                                  Concessionaire logging ceasedfollowing the December 2001
                                             Prakas. Illegal activities by the GAT concession have been sub-
                                             stantiated and the concession cancelled as a result. Since the
                                             appointmentof the new IndependentMonitor in 2003, no new
                                             cases of illegal logging by concessionaires have been brought
                                             forward (see SGS, Third Quarterly Report as Independent Moni-
                                             tor, Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting, September 2004).
                                             Concession-related mills and factories are closed and have been
                                             visited by Bank staff and the Independent Monitor. Reports of
                                             illegal logging have concerned parks and protected areas, land
                                             development projects (economic land concessions) and "wild cat"
                                             illegal logging without demonstrable linkage to concessionaires.

 Offsetting Timber Royalties. At a           Royalty Offsets. Royalty offsets were identified in a 2002 IMF
meeting in September 2002, Global            audit of the 2001 national budget, which was discussed with the
Witness representatives...presented           Bank in the context of the SAC. The transactions of concern were
 boththe task manager and the head of        off-budget transactions that were approved by the Council of Min-
the Bank`s Rural Developmentand               istersto compensate enterprises that were owed as a result of the
 Natural Resource Sector Unit, East           Governmentcancellation of log exports in 1996 and 1997. Royal-
Asia and Pacific Regionwith documen-         ties collected by the Government agencies (in this case the FA)
tation that exposed high-levelcorrup-        were transferred directly to the enterprises holding claims against
 tion involvingthe concessionaires.The        the Government, rather than, as required by the Budget Law, to
 offsettingscheme in questionenabled          the NationalTreasury. This was explained to the Bank in a letter
 the misappropriation of large sums of        from the Minister of MEF and the Minister of MAFF on July 18,
 moneythat the companiesowed to the           2002. According to a May 2002 audit by MEF (MEF to Country
 governmentin unpaid timber royalties.        Director,June 10, 2002), USD 3.0 million was mishandled. The
 The offsetting system emerged soon           Government satisfied the Bank and the IMFthat the claims
 after the government imposeda mora-          againstthe Government were genuine and that it was also pursu-
 torium on further cutting and log trans-     ing compensation from two firms that had been overpaid. The
 portation in January 2002...In the           Bank pursued work with MAFF, FA and MEF on development of
 event, however,the Bank did little or        improved systems to prevent reoccurrences.
 nothingwith the evidence concerning
 the offsetting scheme. Indeed,only                Regarding the log transport ban, see Item 38.
 days after receiving the documentation
 from Global Witness, the task manager
 wrote to the Forest Administration pro-
 posingthat the log transport morato-
 rium be overturned and the same con-
 cession companiesthat had offset their
 royalty payments be allowedto resume
 timber shipments.



                                                44

                                                Forestry ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project




D   //legalFA Director Activities...[ljt is        FA DirectorActivities. A letter sent on July 22, 2004 by Global
    worth noting that evidence of ...illegal       Witness included accusationsof complicity on the part of the Pro-
    activities by the [FCMCPPProject Di-           ject Directorin issuingtransit permits to move logs. The allega-
     rector] has been broughtto the World          tions against the Project Directorwere referred to the Bank`s De-
     Bank`s attention and elicitedno re-           partmentof Institutional Integrityimmediately. Other concerns
    sponse.                                        expressed in the July 22 letter and another letter sent by Global
                                                   Witness on July 29, 2004 were discussed with them during a
                                                   meetingheld at their offices on July 29. An email outlining the
                                                   discussionsis attached in Annex 4.

Deadlines for Management Plans.The                 Guidelinesfor the Governmentreview of SFMPs stipulate that
concessioncompanies had committedto                revisionand re-submissionby concessionaires is allowed (FA,
submittingtheir SFMPs and ESiAs by the             2004~).The number of resubmissions is not specified, however,
end of September 2001 [however] all the
concessionaires missed the 30 September                  This claim misrepresents potential legal ramifications in the
deadline. This provided groundsfor cancel-         event that concessionairesmissed the SFMP submission dead-
lation of their contracts. Instead,World            line. The September 2001 deadline for SFMP and ESlA submis-
Bank officials argued that the deadline             sion was an agreed target, but this date was not based on a for-
should be allowed to slip and none of the           mal commitmentto the Bank (Report of first meeting of the Joint
companies penalised for their failure to            CTIA-DFW Working Group, May 16, 2000). The Bank was not a
meet it. These arguments prevailed and the          specific party to this group, which was established underthe ADB
government decided to grant the compa-              projectand was assisted by a UK DflD-financed consultant).
nies another year to producetheir plans.            While failure to meet this deadline was discussed by donors and
The short-term consequence of this was              the Government as possible grounds for cancellation, any such
that the companies continued loggingfor             cancellationwas to be implemented at the discretion of the FA
the remaining months of 2001, before pres-          Director.
sure from international donors other than                 When the deadline was missed, the Bank took action to en-
the Bank persuaded the governmentto                 sure that inappropriate logging did not occur. It conveyed disap-
suspend concession operationseffective              proval of logging that occurred in the fall of 2001 (explained by the
from January 2002.                                  Governmentas based on a 12-month approval cycle that would
     Throughout its reviewof concession-            lapse on December 31,2001). A Bank mission in November-
aires' plans, the FCMCPPteam repeatedly             December 2001 discussedthese issues with the Government and
insisted that its assessmentwas based on            reached agreement on a draft Pfakas to enforce planning re-
purely technical criteria...Projectstaffs de-       quirementsof the Sub-Decreeon Forest Concession Manage-
cision to give the companies more and               ment. A revised Prakas was issued by the MAFF on December
more opportunities to improvetheir plans            16,2001 (Aide-Memoire and Management Letter of December
was anything but technical however. Not for         12,2001).
the first time, the project demonstratedits
determination to place the interestsof the                The same Bank supervision mission urged the Government
companies above those of Cambodians                 to finalize its determination of which concessionaires qualified for
who stood to suffer the adverse impacts of          immediatetermination. A suggested notice of cancellation letter
their continued operations.The Bank,                was attached to the Management Letter (December 2001). See
meanwhile,was quite aware of these short-           also Item 3.
comings, but did nothingto remedythem.
 Unsatisfactory Rating. Lack of consulta-           As summarized in Annex 3, the Bank team has supervised the
tion was one of the reasonsfor the World            project intensively. "U" ratings on aspects of the project were first
Bank rating the FCMCPP as `unsatisfactory'          registered in December 2001, followed by subsequent downgrad-
in the second half of 2002. It is reassuring        ing of Development Objective and Implementation Performance
to know that the Bank had some awareness             ratings to "U" in December 2002. As of end 2004, the rating re-
of the project`s deficiencies in this regard.        mains "U".
 Nevertheless,the belatedincrease in num-
 ber of consultationexercisessince has not                In June 2002, prior to the downgrading, the Bank called the
 been matched by any qualitative improve-            Government's attention to an absence of progress. In its commu-
 ment. Moreover,as these consultations               nicationto the FA Director (June IO, 2002), the Bank expressed
 have taken place afterthe companies had             doubts that the Government"would not fully exploit the conces-
 already submitted their SFMPs and ESIAs,           sion control capabilities being developed under the project." The
 their scope to influencethe concession-             Bank recommended specific remedial actions regarding utilization
 aires' planning process has been very lim-          of project resources on forestry field control and law enforcement,
                                                     development of revenue systems, and project evaluation, The



                                                      45

    Cambodia




ted.                                                         3ank also called attention to Cambodian regulatory requirements
                                                             `or disclosureof management plans to affected communities. In
                                                             3ecember 2002, the Bank informed the Government that it had
                                                             jowngraded the rating of the project because substantial im-
                                                             Jrovementshad not been made. The letter from the Sector Direc-
                                                             .orto the FA Director noted specifically that the Bank had re-
                                                             :eived complaintsthat local communities had been denied access
                                                             :oconcession plans, documents and remedies. The letter urged
                                                             :he Governmentto resume its commitments to the project and
                                                             dfered the prospect of reallocating Credit proceeds to, for exam-
                                                             Die, communityforestry, forest mapping and demarcation.
                                                                  InJune 2003 Bank staff reviewed the results of the MTR and
                                                             Totedthe FA'Sreversal on abandoning the compartment plan
                                                             ?equirementas well as other initiatives proposed by the MTR.
                                                             Agreement was also reached on moving ahead with support for a
                                                             PublicAffairs Unit in the FA and recruitment of a social scientist to
                                                             assist in the consultation process. At the conclusion of this mis-
                                                             sion, the rating of the Development Objective was upgraded to
                                                             `Satisfactory."

Quality of Forest Cover Survey. tThe                         The forest cover survey (DFW, 2003e, "Trends in Land Cover
Bank is in breach of OP 13.05 by] failure to                 Changes Detection between 1996/1997 and 2002 by Remote
ensure the observance of minimum stan-                       SensingAnalysis") was prepared by the FA with assistancefrom E
dards in the 2003 forest cover survey that                   qualifiedinternational consultant. The study aimed to provide cur-
the FCMCPP produced. This extremely                          rent informationabout recent land cover trends as a basis for dis-
poor piece of work has provided a distorted                  cussion of forest management issues nationwide. It described
picture of forest quality and cover in Cam-                  technical issues and methodology, the extent of ground truthing 01
bodia. This in turn assists proponents of the                the satellite imagery and the results of that ground tr~thing.~The
concessionsystem to argue the case for                       study provided detailed maps of forest cover, forest cover
continued industrial logging.                                changes and tabular estimates of changes by major forest type
It is difficultto determinewhether the                       for each concession and each park and protected area in Cam-
FCMCPPdeliberatelyset out to manipulate                      bodia.To estimate the degree to which logging was occurring, the
the findings of the study, not least as it has               study used the extent of road development as a surrogate meas-
declinedto publish the survey'sfindings in                   ure. The study cost less than USD 100,000 and was financed by
full. Eitherway, the main outcomes can be                    a PHRD Grant for ImplementationTechnical Assistance.
summarisedas follows:
      LIL money wasted                                             Bank and independent specialists reviewed the TOR for the
      The opportunityto producean authori-                   study and consulted with the FA technical advisers. An open
      tative assessment of forest cover lost                 workshop held by the advisers at the Bank Cambodia Office was

      Productionof misleadinginformation at                  attended by NGOs and researchers. No specific defects in the

      a time when it was liableto be used for                 methodologyhave been called to the attention of the Bank, but

      political purposes.                                    there have been complaints that the results of the study have

[See also page 34.1                                           been misquoted.
                                                                   Specialists employed by the Multi-Donor IFSR reviewed mul-
                                                             tiple sources of geographic data on Cambodian forestry, includinc
                                                             the FA assessment. The IFSR Annex on forest cover (D. Ashwell
                                                              D.F. Miller and A. Dummer, 2004, "Ecology, Forest Cover and
                                                             Quality") discusses the assessment in detail and makes note of
                                                             various limitations and caveats, but does not dispute its work-
                                                             manship or technical quality. The IFSR, in fact, makes extensive
                                                             use of the study. The Bank also has utilized the results of the
                                                             study in its own due diligence work on SFMP and ESIA.
                                                                   The "Trends in Land Cover Changes" survey has been dis-


      Of 88 ground truthing points, 67 (76%) matched with the image interpretation results. Misclassifications were all among
    the deciduous,other forest and non-forest categories. No errors were detected within the evergreen and semi-evergreen
    types.




                                                               46

                                                  Forestry ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project
                                             -
                                             - Page
                                               No?

                                               -      ,eminatedin Cambodia and the Bank will encourage the MAFF to
                                                      nake the digital data files publicly accessible.

Ieclaration on Forestry RevenuesSys-           34-35  -hePrakas on forestry revenue systems management was one
ems Management. Another component of                  ollow-upto the royalty offset problem (see Item 27). An inter-
he FCMCPP has been the development of                 igency team was establishedto reviewthe forest revenue system
1 Prakas -aministerialdeclarationthat                 md to make recommendations leadingto a joint August 2003
orms an additional component of an exist-             'rarakas of the Ministers of MAFF and MEF.
ng law- covering forestry revenue systems
nanagement...While presumablynow                           Supervision of the review process proved difficult, and the
:ompleted and legally applicable,the                  2overnment proceeded with the Prakas.A limited consultation
Jrakas has still not been publiclydissemi-            vas organized and involvedthe Bank and the IMF, but this was
iated. In the first instance its disclosureis         ised by the Governmentto inform rather than to seek input during
indoubtedly the responsibilityof the Cam-             hafting of the Prakas. The efforts of the interagencyteam devel-
iodian government rather than the World               )ped somewhat stronger institutional capacity in both Ministries
3ank. Howeverthe Bank, havingchosento                 md involved Government staff in World Bank Institute/PROFOR-
ake a role in the Prakas development,had              sponsored international policy seminars.
:onsiderable scope to steer the process. It                 The Bank proposesto bring the issue of disclosure and con-
:hose not to exercise this.                    -      :erns about remaining weaknesses in the Prakasto the multi-
                                                      jonor TWG and seek support for a resumption of work.

Review of Management Plans Conces-  -          36     The Bank has endorsed using companytrack records in conces-
sionaireTrack Records. The FCMCPP                     sion evaluation and has encouragedthe Governmentto cancel
:eam reviewing the plans closed its eyes to           ;ontracts for concessionaires that are in clear and persistent non-
dl past offences by the concessionaires.              :ompliance with Cambodianforestry regulations (see Item 3).
This established a skewed system of as-               Sompany background was reviewed as part of the Independent
sessmentby which plans written by exter-              Reviewof SFMPs (co-financed by the Bank) and recommenda-
nal consultants were treated as the sole              tions on suspect practices, such as the irresponsible use of sub-
indicator of the company's will and capacity          contractors,have been brought to the attention of the Govern-
to manageforest responsibly.                          ment and the CTIA.
                                                            Ultimately, the FA refused to accept unproven allegations in
                                                      its assessment methodology, but the TRT addressed a number of
                                                      issues, including the quality and completenessof environmental
                                                      and social impact assessments, in qualifying and explaining its
                                                      final recommendations. If illegal logging had diminished forest
                                                      volumes, this would have been reflected in the strategic level in-
                                                      ventory results and allowable yield calculations.The TRT also
                                                      highlighted issues and weaknesses in the ESlAs that will need
                                                      special attention at the next level of planning.
                                                            Data on legal and contractual breaches by concessionaires
                                                      (p. 13 of the Global Witness attachment to the Request), based
                                                      on Fraser Thomas (2000a), show that none of the six companies
                                                      that were recommended to proceed to the next level of planning ii
                                                      known to have engaged in "extensive" illegal logging.

Review of Management Plans Timber   -          36-37  The scorecard is only one part of an internal review system estab
Volume. The World Bank took no action to              lished within MAFF and FA for evaluation of SFMPs and, despite
prevent its projectfrom adopting a wholly             the flaws in the scorecard approach, the results of the first phase,
flawed scorecard system for assessing                 in which rejections were recommendedfor 9 of 15 concessions,
concessionaires'SFMPs and ESIAs. Under                generally support the validity of the system.
the FCMCPP methodology,different ele-
ments of companies'submissions are as-                      To ensure an objective and balanced review, the Bank estab
sessed and a certain number of points                 lished its prerogative to review and comment on forest manage-
awarded or deductedfor each component.                ment plans prior to their submission for final approval (Develop-
These individual scores are then added to             ment Credit Agreement, para. 5(c) of Schedule 4). In addition, th6
 produce an overallfigure. The system is              donor community, with Bank support, established the process of
very heavily weighted towards considera-              public review and comment on SFMPs; this drew attention to
tion of the amount of timber the company              weaknesses in the estimates of timber volume and concerns
                                                      about the need to eventually adjust volume estimates and com-



                                                        41

   Cambodia
                                               -
                                               -Page
                                                No.'
ias left in its concession.                    -     )artment boundariesto accountfor community use, biodiversity
                                                     :onsewation and other management objectives.
                                                                                                                             1
                                      ~~                          ~~~    ~ ~ ~ _ _ _ _ _  ~~~    ~~

Methodologyof SFMP andESlA Review               73   3leoresins are producedin varying quantities and qualities by
                                                                                                                          ~

.egarding Resin Trees. [The Bank is in               :reesof many tropical species. Resin tapping is an important
)reach of OP 13.05 by1Not taking any ac-             source of incomefor many poor rural Cambodians, as it is in other
ion to change the flawed methodologyof               :ropicalcountries. Industrialforestry can be in direct conflict with
,he FCMCPP's review of the SFMPs and                 'esin utilization, and protection of livelihoods requires careful
ISIAs, in particular the project's refusalto         danning to excludetrees used for resin from the harvesting pro-
:akeaccount of the legal prohibitionon cut-          gram. If this is not possible,either substantial areas must be re-
:ing resin trees. This protectionof resin            moved from the area availablefor industrial timber harvesting, or
:rees is specified in Cambodia law (1988             alternative compensatoryor protective mechanisms developed.
Decree on Forest Practice Rules; 2002                The full extent of the resin tree issue in Cambodia emerged dur-
Forest Law). This has led to FCMCPP's                ing implementationof the project and the Bank has supported
endorsementof companieswhose conces-                 studies (BNPP-supportedwork on biodiversity by WCS), including
sions may not be economicallyviable. It will          those cited in the Request.
also encourage companiesto continue log-
ging resin trees, an activitythat is illegal               Regulatory provisions regarding resin trees have evolved
and which will serve to further impoverish            during the period of projectimplementation but at present hatvest-
already poor Cambodians.This goes di-                 ing of resin trees is prohibited. Inclusion of all standing trees in the
rectly against overall World Bank develop-            concessionforest inventory is based on the purpose of the inven-
ment objectives. Notethat this issue has              tory (and the associatedcalculations), which is to support com-
been raised with World Bank and FCMCPP                partmentdefinition and not determination of harvesting strategy.
staff on a number of occasions.[See also              Volume figures were discounted by 50 percent in harvest calcula-
pages 14-15, 37-39 44-45, 47-50 and page              tions used by the FA TRT and do anticipate limitations that might
73 of the Global Witness report.]                     occur at later stages in the planning process. Concessionaires
                                                      plan their operations at their own risk, and nothing in the TRT
                                                      work implies a commitmentto or guarantee of concession con-
                                                      tinuation.
                                                           Work on a legal opinion on resin tree tapping and logging has
                                                      proceeded over the last year under USAlD funding, and the Bank
                                                -     has assigned a social forestry consultant to help facilitate related
                                                      consultations and discussions.

Adverse Social Impacts. In April 2004 the       32,   The Bank has been concerned from the outset about social risks.
outgoing task managerclaimedthat a              40-41 There has been substantial discussion within the project Task
World Bank social science specialist had              Team, with Governmentcounterparts and with concessionaires
concluded that social impactswere ade-                on how best these can be managed and anticipated and at which
quately addressed during the strategic level          junctures in the three tiered planning process. The intention was
planning process. The social scientist's              to give attention to social issues at all levels, but it was anticipated
supposed conclusions(which have also not              that deficiencies would occur especially at the strategic level, be-
 been published) are at odds with those of            cause of the large areas, large number of villagers, and long-term
the independent reviewteam that examined               planning horizon (25 years). Measures, such as support (from
the companies' plans in July to August                 PHRD and later Bank budget) for a social forestry consultant were
 2004.                                                 introduced to respond as specific concerns materialized.
      mhe FCMCPP staff and the World
 Bank task manager have increasingly                       The Bank has never approved any strategic level ESlA and
 sought to gloss overthe concessionaires'              has acknowledged the weaknesses highlighted by the Independ-
 glaring lack of attention to social impacts by        ent Review of SFMPs. The Bank agrees with its recommenda-
 arguingthat these can be addressed at the            tions and has encouraged the Government and concessionaires
 compartment (five year planning) level,               to meet and discuss how to address the concerns highlighted in
 after the companies'strategic (25 year)               the Independent Review report.
 level plans have already been ap-                          In response to the assertion that the project design did not
 proved...World Bank and FCMCPPstaffs                  envision a compartment level planning process, the December
 motivationsfor pushingsocial considera-               1998 Identification Mission outlines the three tiered concession
 tions to the compartment level planning               management planning system (later published by Fortech, 1999,
 stage are suspect, not least as the project           P. 5).
 design never anticipatedwork at the com-
 partment level at all....That the World Bank   -

                                                        48

                                               Forestry ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project




9 now so eager to push social issuesto a
)lanninglevel that it did not previouslycon-
;ider of importance raises serious ques-
ions about its commitment to ensuringthat
hey are addressed in a meaningfulway.
gnoring Impacts on Forested Land-                  Management believesthatthe Bank appropriately followed the
scapes. The FCMCPP assessment[of the               :riteria of the 2004 Guidelinesfor the Review of Forest Manage-
Aans] excluded consideration of the com-           nent Plans (FA, 2004c, Annexes 4 and 5). These criteria address
lined impacts of logging companies' plans          3djacent land uses, watershed processes, wildlife, and "effects on
)n Cambodia'sforested landscapes.The               heforest resourceas a whole."
.eamexamined the different sets of plans
Mirely in isolation from one another.This          The Bank recognizedlandscape approaches to forest manage-
approach proceeded from the flawed as-             ment in the BiodiversityConservation Guidelines prepared in Eng-
sumption that logging would only have envi-        ish in 1998, subsequentlytranslated into Khmer with AusAlD
*onmentaland social impacts within the             wpport: "The purposeof forest management units, whether
soundariesof the given concession and the          zommercialconcessionsor community forests, is to balance sus-
:ombined impacts of groups of contiguous           tainableforest commodity production with the maintenance of
:oncessions could be discounted.                   ecologicalservices, biodiversity conservation and landscape sta-
                                                   bility. Forest concessionswill not only have an important biodiver-
                                                   sity conservationfunction on their own, but will also provide buff-
                                                   ers around and connectivity between the systems of national
                                                   protectedareas. Thus concession planning will have to look both
                                                   internallyand to the provincial scale in its compartment designa-
                                                   tions and management prescriptions" (Section 2.2).
                                                         In partnershipwith the WCS a pilot study and training course
                                                   was funded by the BNPP with the overall goal of strengthening
                                                   the mainstreamingof biodiversity concerns into forest concession
                                                   reform and management.This work led to a Ministerial declara-
                                                   tion formally designatingthe Keo Seimar section of the former
                                                   Samling Concession as a national area for biodiversity conserva-
                                                   tion. In addition the aforementioned Biodiversity Conservation
                                                   Guidelineswere revisedto incorporate the lessons of the WCS
                                                   pilot (Final ReportAugust 2002).
                                                          During the October 2004 supervision mission, the Bank
                                                   sought and received the commitment of the FA to explore oppor-
                                                   tunities for landscape level conservation in the Strung Chinit- Prey
                                                   Long area, subject in particular to cumulative impacts. Specifi-
                                                   cally, the Bank agreed with Government on use of an ongoing
                                                   review of the protected areas system funded by the Biodiversity
                                                   and Protected Areas Management Project to assess appropriate
                                                   mechanismsfor conservation in an area that is overlapped by
                                                   three concessions. That project is currently completing a nation-
                                                   wide gap-analysis of the protected areas system in Cambodia.As
                                                   part of that review the study will evaluate areas currently not un-
                                                   der formal protected status. Stung Chinit-Prey Long is included
                                                   within this national review. Recommendations on its biodiversity
                                                   significance and future protected status will be made as part of
                                                   the study's final analysis.
                                                          See also responsesto items 16, 17,and 19 above.

 Deficienciesin Draft SFMPs. As a result           The Bank is aware of deficiencies in the six plans and has re-
 of the deficienciesin the FCMCPPs as-             frained from "endorsing" them or "recommending [their] approval.'
 sessment and the Bank`s failure to correct         Endorsement and recommendation is the sole purview of the FA
 them, by June 2004 the project had rec-            and not of the Bank. The TRT of the FA has recommended the si
 ommendedthat the Cambodian govern-                 plans to the Director, and provided both justifications and qualifi-
 ment approvethe plans of six of the com-           cations on its recommendations.The FA and the MAFF have as-
 panies....With two exceptions,the FCMCPP           sured the Bank that they will either: (i) have the deficiencies in
 has not disseminatedits assessments of



                                                      49

   Cambodia
                                              -
                                              - Page
                                                No?
the companies' plans. A table setting out            these plans corrected; or (ii) reject the plans
the review team's conclusions is included,
however, in the annex of the 2004 GFA                      Concerns about disseminationof information and the disclo-
Terra review of the six sets of documents.           sure policy are addressed under Item22. The Government has
This summary shows howthe FCMCPP                     not formally accepted the IFSR recommendationto end the con-
has implicitly or explicitly acknowledged            cession system; it has verbally indicatedthat it will not abandon
deficiencies in all the concessiondocu-              the case-by-case concession review process (Aide memoire, Oc-
ments to which it has given its endorse-             tober 2004 mission).The Bank has recommendedthat if the Gov-
ment. In each case it has justified this with         ernmentwere to proceed with forest concession management
the argument that these flaws can be recti-           planning (even for the short period of ten years indicated in the
fied during subsequent planningstages.,,              IFSR)then it should reflect carefully on the recommendationsfor
As already noted, the World Bank project              additional planning requirements included in the report of the In-
and the Government ForestAdministration               dependent Review of SFMPs. !I?the Bznk`s public comments on
have declined to publish the FCMCPP's                 the IFSR and in consultations with the Government, the Bank
evaluations of the SFMPs and ESIAs,thus               highlightedthe urgent need to establish a robust system for plan-
adding to prevailing lack of transparency             ning, management, and protection in post-concession areas.
within the sector. Communities affectedby                  The ITTO sponsored an internationaldiagnostic mission in
concessionaires' activities are therefore             2004 on obstacles to achieving sustainableforest management in
denied even an explanation as to why the              Cambodia. This mission, led by a Senior Fellow with WWF Inter-
World Bank project is endorsingthe six                national and the former Director Generalfor the International Cen-
companies' plans.                                     tre for International Forestry Research, recommendedthat, not-
...Followingthe FCMCPP's recommenda-                  withstanding the controversy and problemssurrounding the
tion of approval for [six enterprises]...,the         management of concession in Cambodia, a small number of con-
international donor Working Group on Natu-            cessions should be allowed to proceed to the next stage of their
ral Resource Management convened an                   management planning. Furthermore,the missionfound that the
independent evaluation of the six sets of             "The World Bank sponsored studies of concession management
plans. The review team concludedthat not              have produced 15 sets of guidelines that, if implemented, would
one of the six companies should be allowed            result in Cambodia having some of the most sophisticated, tech-
to resume logging without serious adjust-             nically difficult and costly concession management in the world."
ments to the plans that the FCMCPP had                ("Achieving the ITTOObjective 2000 and Sustainable Forest
recommendedfor approval.
...The World Bank helpedto fund this inde-            Management in the Kingdom of Cambodia," International Tropical
                                                      Timber Council Document (XXV11)/15, November 12, 2004).
pendent review. It also helped to pay for the
Independent Forest Sector Review (IFSR)
completed in April 2004 that recommended
that the entire concession system be
scrapped. In October 2004 the Bank pub-
lished a set of comments in responseto the
IFSRwhich admitted that "concessionaire
and the Government performance has been
largely a continuation of the `systemfailure'
described in the ADB supported assess-
ment (of concessions in 2000)".               -
                                                                                                                    ~~~
Overturn of Log Transport Ban. r h e            73,   The Bank endorsed the December 2001 Prakas banning log
Bank is in breach of OP 13.05 by] Repeat-       48-51 transportation and suspending harvesting operations. The Bank
edly attempting to help a company... over-            has been cautious in its approach and mindful of local community
turn the log transport ban and profit from its        and civil society concerns when considering how to dispose of the
illegal logging of villagers' resin trees. Ad-        large volume of harvested material that remained along road
mittedly,World Bank staff have themselves             sides and in the forest when the transport suspension came into
been so directly implicated that is debatable         effect (apyoximately 6,000 pieces with an estimated volume of
as to whether this is simply a breach of the           19,000m -see SGS letter to FA auditing proposed logs and
supervision policy.                                   outstanding royalty payments, April 1, 2004).
     World Bank, FCMCPPand ForestAd-
ministrationstaff continued to discuss                      In 2003, the Bank mobilized a resettlement specialist to con-
means of overturningthe transportation                sider claims by NGOs that the stockpiles associated with the
moratoriumthroughout 2004. Written com-               Colexim concession and an adjacent rubber plantation resulted
 municationsfrom Global Witness in July               from socially disruptive logging and land development. The Bank
and December2004 requesting that the                  noted serious problems with the land development process and
 Bank explain its involvementhave so far      -       the absence of adequate planning and social safeguards in the



                                                        50

                                                  Forestry ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project
                                              -
                 Claimbsue                    -Page
                                               No.`
met with no response. In December2004                `ubberplantation project (which was not Bank financed). The
Bank staff were instrumental in weakening            3ank preparedTOR for a retroactive mitigation plan that were
the log transport moratorium in the course           iresented to the Governmentand discussed with donors and
of negotiations between donors and gov-              VGOs. The plan proposedthat revenues be set aside to fund
ernment over next steps in the forest reform         :ompensatory measures. Ultimatelythis plan was not put into
process. In mid January 2005 government              action because of NGO objections.
officials announced that they were on the
point of resuming old log transportationand                 InApril 2004 the Bankwas approached by the Government
would be engaging the servicesof consult-             :hroughthe TWG and asked to comment on a proposal to move
ants to the FCMCPP to facilitate the proc-            ogs from nine companies.Bank staff responded that all of the
ess.                                                  ogs shouid be inventoriedand all royalties paid before authoriza-
     The outcomes of these activitiesare              :ionto move them was given; that SGS should monitor any
harmful in two ways. Firstly,the Bank is              novement; that the Government shodd puS1icly disclose its plan
weakening one of the few availablepoints              to move the logs so that civil society could participate in the moni-
of leverage over the companies. It is the             toring if it wished to; that Government proceeds should be di-
suspension of their activitiesthat hasforced          rectedto address development in communities neighboring the
the concessionaires even to pay lip service           narvestareas; and that the value of logs as evidence in any ongo-
to such requirements as communityconsul-              ng court cases should be preserved.
tation and environmental and social impact                 During preparationfor the December 2004 CG meeting the
assessment. If the Bank succeeds in get-              subject of the log transportation ban was again raised by the
ting the companies operationalonce again              Government,which sought an easing of the ban to allow log
before the planning processis complete,               movements to meet domestic demand (wood for the new parlia-
the concessionaires will make even less               ment building was specifically referenced). In donor discussions,
effort to address such issues.                        various formulations rangingfrom quite liberal to very restrictive
      Perhaps even more disturbing is the             were considered.The Government held that the position that was
Banks efforts to help loggingcompaniesto              tabled during the CG meetingwas too restrictive and objected,
profit from serious forest crime, the victims         claimingthat it had not been adequately consulted. Ultimately the
of which were poor villagers. The Bank thus           version that was agreed between donors and the Government
stands on the verge of becomingan acces-              addressessome but not all of the concerns that the Bank had
sory to criminal activities. The fact that it         highlightedin its recommendationsto the TWG in April 2004. The
should embark on such a course of action              new benchmark reads: "Maintain suspension/moratorium on log-
is one of the most troubling aspectsof the            ging, transport of logs (except those which have been already
entire history of the FCMCPP.                         inventoriedand for which royalties have been paid in full), and
                                                      new economic land concessions pending completion of applicable
                                                      review processes and/or a legal framework."
                                                            It is correct that no written reply was issued to either of the
                                                      cited Global Witness letters but it is not correct to assert that there
                                                      was no response. A Bank representative met with Global Witness
                                                      in its offices on July 29, 2004 to discuss log transportation and
                                                      other issues. As reported by Bank staff in an email dated July 29,
                                                      2004, Global Witness appeared to agree that if the Government
                                                      did not provide a reasonable plan for transport of existing logs,
                                                      the Bank should indicate clearly that it did not support the pro-
                                                      posed transport. If the Government chose not to transport, all
                                                      would accept that decision. Should the Government choose to
                                                      transport, the Bank should focus, inter alia, on inventory con-
                                                      trolllog tracking and ensuring the royalty status of the logs.

 Governance. Recent independentstudies          52    Timber harvesting in concession areas has been effectively con-
 of Cambodia'sforest sector indicatethat              strained by a logging banfor more than two years while the ca-
 the Bank has not wrought any changes in              pacity of Cambodia's FA to review and regulate concession man-
 Cambodia'sforest sector governance that              agement is being strengthened. From the initiation of the first
 would compel the concessionairesto be-               Bank TA Project, through ADB Project Preparation Technical As-
 have any differentlyfrom the way that they           sistance, to FCMCPP, the principal intent has been improved
 did in the past. There are neither incentives        governance; specifically, to improve the capacity of Cambodia's
 nor controls sufficientto force the compa-           forest management agency to control the industrial concession
 nies to obey the law and respect the rights          system that Cambodia had chosen as the main instrument for
 of ordinary Cambodians.                       -      regulating production forest management. This has led to:




                                                        51

       Cambodia
                                                -
                                                -Page
                                                 No.'
                                                           A Concession ManagementSub-Decree February 2000, es-
                                                           tablishing Government expectations for the forest industry
                                                           and a basisfor enforcingthose expectations;
                                                           The first ForestryLaw for Cambodia in August 2002, provid-
                                                           ing a context for both commercial and communityforest
                                                           managementand for compliance and enforcement in all for-
                                                           est operations;
                                                           A series of standards and guidelines, producedfrom 1998 to
                                                           2004, for concessionforest management, including planning,
                                                           reduced impact harvesting,forest engineering (roads and
                                                           water crossing),forest crime reduction, biodiversity conserva-
                                                           tion and social forestry;
                                                           A map folio and computed statistics on forest cover, pub-
                                                           lished in 2003, showing the extent of forest cover in
                                                           1996/1997and in 2002, thus allowing calculationof trends in
                                                           forest cover;
                                                           A three tiered forest planning system with approved plans
                                                           directly enforceable in law;
                                                           A series of Handbooks, prepared from 1998to 2004, to guide
                                                           the planning system-Forest Planning Handbook, Forest In-
                                                           ventory Handbook, Forest Systems Research and Modeling
                                                            Handbook and Guidelinesfor the Review and Management
                                                            Plans;
                                                           A total ban on forest harvesting on concessions, initiated in
                                                            2002 and now in its third year, until strategic and compart-
                                                            ment level plans are prepared and approved: and
                                                           The recommendedcancellation of 10concessionsfor either
                                                 -          non-viability or irretrievably poor performance.
                                                 -
40. World Bank EndorsementAs a Political         53-54 Cambodia is a post-conflict country in which the Bank has made
    Commodity.As the Bank is well aware but            good governance a key objective. The Banks work with Govern-
    keen to deny, its endorsement of, or even          ment institutions in this context may appear to legitimize actions
    associationwith, particular institutionsor         taken by those institutions.A delicate balance needs to be main-
    policies is a political commodity.Cambo-           tained when the efforts of the Bank in a project such as the
    dia's forest sector is no exception. Exam-         FCMCPP are focused on improving forest management.
    ples includethe debates on the draft Forest
    Law held in the Cambodia's NationalAs-                  The Bank has helped generate information, insight and pro-
    sembly in 2002, as well as use of the              cedures addressing a range of issues facing the forestry sector in
    FCMCPPforest cover survey as a political           Cambodia. For interest groups to engage in political, commercial
    prop in July 2003...                               or other processes in relation to this information, or to misuse or
                                                 -     misrepresent data or concepts is beyond the control of the Bank.

    OutcomesWith versusWithout the Pro-          56-57 Studies undertaken during the TA Project estimatedthat illegal
   ject. The overall impact of the Bank`s inter-       logging (occurring in 1997 at a rate of 4 million m3per year) would
    vention was to weaken significantlythe             exhaustthe forest resource in five years (DAl, p. vii). In contrast
    momentumof the forest sector reform                to this "without project" scenario, concession logging has been
    process.The ADB review's recommenda-               suspended, large scale illegal logging has been brought under
    tion that the concessionairesundergo a             control (according to the Government's audited estimates of foresi
    stringent restructuringprocess provideda           crime), and a more coherent planning and managementframe-
    means of weeding out those that had al-            work has been defined and begun to be implemented. Significant
    ready caused serious material harm. How-           problems and challenges remain, but illegal logging has been
    ever, this approachwas comprehensively             sharply reduced (SGS quarterly reports).
    underminedby the FCMCPP,which set out
    with the express intentionof helpingthe                 Following up on suggestions that logging would be resumed

                                                     Forestly ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project



                 Claimllssue                     Page
                                                 No.'
zompaniesto clear this newset of hurdles.       -
                                                _c




                                                         nappropriately,the Bank has consulted with the Government and
indeed, without the project's assistance,               *eceivedassurancesthat it intended to adhere to the provisions of
advice and willingness to bendthe rules in              :he concession managementSub-Decree and the December
favor of the concessionaires, it is highly              2001 Prakas.To date, these provisions have been observed.
unlikelythat any would have stood a
chanceof passing through the strategic                        At the core of the Request is the overall assertion that the
level planning process...The Bank's                     Bank has or is poised to give its approval to logging in the context
agenda obstructed the developmentof al-                 of inadequate plans and processes.Over a period of years, this
ternative management modelssuch as                      possibility has been raised repeatedly by groups and individuals
communityforestry and proved a source of                associated with the Request,despite the fact that no logging ap-
disunity within the internationaldonor com-             provalshave yet been issued.As recently as January 2005, the
munity.                                                 Directorof the FA indicated to donors that he estimates that at
                                                        least two more years will be requiredfor concessionaires to com-
                                                        plete the necessary approvals.
                                                              The Bank remains aware of the fragility of the ongoing sus-
                                                        pensionof logging activities.The excesses of the 1997 logging
                                                        season are a constant reminderof the urgent need to establish
                                                        effective operations and controls in the sector. Through FCMCPP,
                                                        the Bank sought to assist the Government in building its capacity
                                                        for effectiveforest planning and regulation.
                                                              Management does not find credible the claim that the Bank
                                                         has obstructed the development of alternative management mod-
                                                         els in Cambodia. As noted above (see Item I), many of the pro-
                                                        ject's contributions to the sector-sponsored inputs including
                                                         planning guidelines, regulatorycapacity enhancement, crime
                                                         monitoringand reporting procedures-are applicable to any forest
                                                         management regime that Cambodia currently has or may adopt in
                                                         the future.
                                                              While the Request focuses on the FCMCPP, Management
                                                         believesthat its efforts in Cambodia and Cambodian forestry
                                                         demonstrate the Bank's responsibleengagement through multiple
                                                         operations.The Bank has integrated forestry issues, including
                                                         sector legislation, community forestry, and forest law enforce-
                                                         ment, into its policy-based lending. The Bank supports the man-
                                                         agement and protection of the country's largest protected area,
                                                         the Virachey National Park,as well as improvement of livelihoods
                                                         in communities in surrounding areas through the Biodiversity and
                                                         Protected Areas Management Project (Credit No. 33200-KH). Thc
                                                         Land Management and Administration Project (Credit No. 36050-
                                                         KH, USD 24.3 million equivalent)addresses security of title and
                                                         land policy including management of State lands. Through its
                                                         Agricultural Productivity Improvement Project (Credit No. NO110-
                                                         KH, USD 27 equivalent) and Rural Investment and Local Govern-
                                                         ance Project (Credit No. 37470-KH, USD 22 million equivalent),
                                                -        the Bank is working at the local community level on issues of rura
                                                         poverty, insecurity and instability.

                                              ~~
 Harm from Logging. CherndarPlywood               Letter Prior to the Request, the Bank was not informed about the cited
 has cut thousands of resin trees belonging       from   logging and claims of harm and has not had an opportunity to
 to villagers in Prame and Mlu Prey 1 Com-        Com    investigate. The Bank has not financed any logging and is not
 munes that have provided a source of live-       muni-  responsible for damages that may be the result of third parties,
 lihood for many years... Other nontimber         ties   including concessionaires, guards, military forces or others acting
 forest productsthat villagers have Gollected            in violation of Cambodian law.
 to sell have also been lost... Samraong
 Wood has cut hundredsof resintrees be-                       The Government, with the encouragement of the Bank, sus-
                                                         pended logging as of January 2002.
 mune... Pheapimexhas cut thousands of
 longing to villagers in Anlong Veng Com-
                                                              Cherndar, Samraong and Everbright have been recom-
 resin trees belongingto villagers in Talat      -       mended by the FA TRT to advance to the compartment planning

    Cambodia




Commune... Everbright has cut thousands
of resin trees belonging to villagers...Ifthe       phase, but have not had logging approved by the Government or
                                                    the Bank. Pheapimex has not been recommendedto continue to
logging concessions' management plans               the compartmentplanning stage.
which receivedtechnical assistancefrom
the World Bank are accepted by the Gov-                 The Bank has provided no financial assistanceto the prepa-
ernment and the companiesstart up their             ration of concessionaires'management plans (see Items 'land 24
activities again, there will certainly be viola-
tions even more severe than before on vil-
lagers, especially on indigenouspeople...




                                                      54


5Ei



t


                                           Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


                                             ANNEX3
                           SUPERVISIONMISSIONCHRONOLOGY




November- December2001                   Task Team LeaderILead Natural ResourceEconomist



                                     2003; supervisionconducted in the field
                                                                     <. - ,
December2002
     >    "        '                                      der/Le&dNaturalResourceEconomist*
February2003                         Cancelled due to lack of progress in projectimplementation
MTR Supervision Mission



        20

                                                          -



                                         Sr. SocialScien

                                            .SocialScienti

                                         Social ForestrySpecialist




'ProcurementandFinancialManagementSpecialistsvisited theprojectseparately.



                                                   61


                                  ANNEX4
               SELECTED DOCUMENTS      AND CORRESPONDENCE


1. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Joint Working Group - Report of ISt
   Meeting, 16 May 2000

2. Email from Task Team Leader on Cambodia Forestry, February 22,2001

3. Management Letter from Country Director to Senior Minister, Ministry of
   Economy andFinance, October 4,200 1

4. Letter from Task Team Leader to Minister o f Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries,
   Economy and Finance and Environment, October 19,2001

5. Letter from Country Director to Minister, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
   Fisheries, December 12,2001

6. Letter from Task Team Leader to Director General, Department o f Forestry and
   Wildlife, October 3,2002

7. Management Letter from Country Director to Minister, Ministry of Agricultural,
   Forestry and Fisheries, December 6,2002

8. Letter from Minister, Ministry o f Agricultural, Forestry and Fisheries to Country
   Director, December 18,2002, with attachment

9. FRM 5th Quarterly Report, Appendix 1- Descriptiono f Satellite Imagery Study,
    Responseto Letter sent by Global Witness, March-May 2003

10. Management Letter from the Rural Sector Director to the Director General,
   Department o fForestry and Wildlife, May 21, 2003

11. Quality Enhancement Review-October 2003

12. Email from Senior Operations Officer on Meetingwith GlobalWitness, July 2004


       CAMBODIA FOREST CONCESSIONMANAGEMENT
                           JOINT WORKING GROUP
                REPORTOF lST 16 MAY 2000
                                      MEETING,

Background

The AD6 funded Concession Review report, and the dialogue following its release in
draft, have created a valuable momentumfor change inthe managementof
Cambodia'sforest sector. All padiesexpresseda commitment to sustainability and
equitability principles as a basisfor management. The Departmentof Forestryand
Wildlife (DFW) andthe CambodianTimber IndustryAssociation (CTIA) undertookto
continuethe dialogue, in an attemptto respondquickly and positivelyto the various
recommendationsof the ADB reportandthe Review Panel. The followingis a brief
report on the 1` meeting of the Joint Working Group, establishedby the DFWand
the CTIA for this purpose.

Participants
   The Departmentof ForestryandWildlife, representedbythe Directorand some of
   his senior staff;
   The CTIA, representedby the Chairmanand some concessionaires;
   The ADB SustainableForestManagement Project,representedby the Team
   Leader;
   The Facilitator, an internationalconsultant.

Agenda

1. Roleof CTlA inthe dialogue;
2. Discussionof timing and processfor establishmentof standardsof acceptability
   for concession managementplans;
3. Proposalsfor performancemilestones in managementplandevelopment;
4. Discussionof processfor the establishment of interimannual allowablecuts
   (AAC), pendingacceptanceby DFWof concessionmanagement plans;
5. Discussionof processand timing for reviewof draft modelforest concession
   agreement. Identification of criticalquestionsand inputs required;
6. Mechanismsfor involvementof O W staffinconcessioninventoryand monitoring
   work;
7. Proposalsfor the Working Group'sown work-plan;
8. Timing and agendafor next meeting.

Discussionand Conclusions:                                                                           -
1. CTlA Role:The CTlA is ableto representthe concessionaireson all mattersof a
   generalor technical naturein the dialogue. Renegotiationof individualcontracts
   later inthe processwill be bilateral, betweenthe RGC and each concessionaire.



Cambodia                                        Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project
                                                                                               1

2. Standards for Sustainable Forest ManagementPlans: Standardsfor the
   development of managementplanswill bedevelopedwith technicalassistance
   provided by the existingADB project, now in its concluding3 months. Appropriate
   expertswill be on handin early June, and the standardswill be available in eady
   July 2000. The expertswill present an inception reportto the Joint Working
   Group early intheir work, so that the CTlA and other stakeholderscan make
   appropriateinput to the processof standardsdevelopment.

   While the standards will bethe product of a consultativeprocess, it will be upto
   the DFWto enforcecompliance,inthe design of the management planswhich will
   be based on them. It is anticipatedthat the standards derivedfrom the
   consultative processwill be availableto the CTIA, for their acceptance, in July
   2000.

3. Performance Milestones: The standards for management plan designwill be in
   place in July, as above. By the beginning of September 2000 the CTlA will
   submit, for the approvalof the DFW,evidence that it has obtainedthe services of
   credible professionalexpertise, to leadthe processof plandevelopment for its
   members, in responseto the standards.

   By early October 2000 the CTlA will presentto the Joint Working Group, for
   approval by the DFW, an inceptionreport by the planningteam. The reportwill
   cover the planningparameters,information requirements,scope of work, and
   resourcerequirements,for the formulationof management plans by the
   concessionaires.

   Fieldwork on the forest-technical,environmental,andsocial aspects of the
   managementplanswill take place in the dry season (October 2000 to May 2001).
   Managementplanswill be submittednot later than September2001. The DFW
   maytake two or more monthsto reviewand approveor rejecteach proposed
   plan.

   The 15 November2001 deadlinefor submission of the sustainable forest
   managementplan by the concessionaireswas understoodto be a real deadline.
   Concessionairesfailing to meetthe deadline will be so notifiedby the DFW. If an
   acceptable management planis then not submitted by 15 December2001,the
   offendingconcessionairewill face immediatecancellationof the concession,at
   the discretion of the Directorof DFW,after considerationof any mitigatingfactors
   and affer one month's prior notification, in linewith the subdecreeon Forest
   ConcessionManagement.

4. InterimAnnual Allowable Cuts: Forthe interim period until managementplans
   are in place, the CTlA and the DFW haveagreedto take a very conservative
   approach, by reducing annualallowable cuts by at least 50% to 70%. Subdecree
   049 providesfor a maximumofftakeof 30% of matureor over-maturetrees inany
   given area for the calculationof currentAAC. Forthe cutting seasonwhich will
   begin in November2000, the interimAAC will be reducedbetween50% to 70%
   Existingregulationsconceming girth limit, species, and other silvicultural,
   environmentaland social parameterswill apply. Monitoringof the cutting activity
   will be carried out by staff of D W s Forest ManagementOffice (see below).

 Cambodia                                           Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project
                                                                                                 2

   5. Draft Model Forest ConcessionAgreement: The ADB Concession Review
       Project has provideda draftmodelagreement, as a basisfor discussion leading
       to revision of the concessioncontracts. It was agreedthat review of that
       document should begin at an early date, under the auspices of the Joint Working
       Group. A date and processfor the reviewwill be determinedat the next meeting.
       General issuesconceming royaltiesand taxationwill be considered here,among
       other matters. It is understoodthat finalizationof contractswill be a bilateral
       procedure, and that the terms of eachcontractwill dependin parton the content
       of the particularmanagement plan.

   6. DFW Staff: Itwas agreedthat there are at least two separate roles for DFWstaff
       inthe managementof concessionsinthe field, i.e. inventoryandmonitoring.To
       be carried out effectively,both requireresourcesof funds, equipment and training.
       Both tasks could legitimatelybechargedto the concessionairesinthe form of a
       service charge, if an appropriatelytransparentand accountablefinancial
       mechanismwere in place. The Director of DFW undertookto explore the
       establishment of an official mechanismwhereby service charges would be paid by
       the concessionairesto the DFW, who would usethe funds to meet the costsof
       the services,includingreasonableincentive paymentsto staff.

       The two functions of forest inventoryand performancemonitoringare quite
       separateand potentially in conflict. Inventorytasks will be carriedout by staff of
       DMTs Forest Research Institute. Monitoringwill bethe purviewof the Forest
       Management Office. It is anticipatedthat the Geographic InformationSystems
       (GIS)unit of DRNwill be similarlyinvolved, inthe provisionof mappingservices.

   7. Work Plan: It is intendedthat the Joint WorkingGroupwill meetfrequently. A
       formalworkplan will be developedfor confirmationat the next meeting.

   8. Next Meeting: Dateto be announced,on or about the 30" of May 2000.



!




     Cambodia                                         Forest Concession Managementand Control Pilot Project
                                                                                                    3

               William 6. Magrath           Subject: Fw: CambodiaForestry
               02/10/2005 03:36 PM
               81679 EASRD



Please keep on file



William B. Magrath
Lead Natural Resource Economist
Rural Development and Natural Resources
East Asia and the Pacific
Phone (202) 458-1679
-----Forwardedby William 6.Magrath/Person/World Bank on 02/10/2005 03:36 PM -----
Fax (202) 477-2733


From:       William B. Magrath on 02/22/200104:40AM
                        EASES


To:         Tom C. Tsui/Person/World Bank, IanC. Porter/Person/World Bank@WorldBank
CC:          BonaventureMbida-Essama/Person/World Bank@WorldBank,Su Yong Song/Person/World
             Bank@WorldBank, Mark D. Wilson/Person/World BankOWorldBank,Glenn 5.Morgan/Person/World
            Bank@WorldBank, Steven N. Schonberger/Person/World Bank, LouiseF. Scura/Person/World Bank,
            Zafer Ecevit/Person/World Bank@WorldBank
bcc:
Subject: Cambodia Forestry

As the subject of the Cambodia Oraft Forestry Law has come up, Ithought it would be useful t o
give a recap on where we have been and come t o generally on forestry inCambodia. Ihave tried t o
keep this as brief as Ican and will be happy t o provide additional information or references as
needed. Ihave also not dwelt on biodiversity issues. Glenn is better equipped there, Iwill be
preparing a simlar note covering the sector inLao POR. Please let me know if this is useful and if
you need additional information.

Immediate Issues and Next Steps for the Bank.

Legiiv'afion. A draft law was submitted to the Council of Ministers by MAFF on February 1. The
draft, which has not been provided t o the Bank, is reportedly under review, but debate by the full
CoM is not yet scheduled. The Prime Minister, however, is said to have ordered that the draft be
forwarded to the National Assembly by March i(the significance of the SAC and IMf target dates
in this are not known).

Government has not responded on Bank comments on most recent draft provided t o the Bank.
Without assurance on the points raised, the current draft can not be considered satisfactory t o the

Ilrclyn lj~ii~tistn-l.aauidnc~,
                            Ii:\SlU>, Thc World Rank

rcl. 202-458-2450, cmd: claR"idao@woildbank.org

 Cumbodia                                                         Forest ConcessionManagement and ControlPilot Project

Bank. Recently, the Bank has been trying to makearrangements for Government acceptance of
additional legal technical assistance. Resourcesare available under the PHRD for the LIL project or
under the LIL itself. Effective assistance could be provided while the draft is being considered at
an interministerial level or at the National Assembly, Whatever the status of the draft at the time
of the upcoming SAC supervision mission, the Bank should request an exdicit schedule for further
grocessinq and consultation linked t o the upcoming Bank assistance.

Forest Law Enforcement. Global Witness and Government are in indirect negotiations regarding
public disclosure of information on alleged illegai loggingactivities. Bepending on the outcome of
these negotiations, the Bank will needto work with Government t o identify an alternative
independent monitor or t o satisfy itself of the viability of the aoreed Drotocols. The Bank may
eventually be called upon t o assist in dispute settlement between Government and Global Witness.

Concession System Restructuring. The Bank should reauest from Government a schedule of actions
[between now and end-Satember. 2001) on the reneootiation of concessioncontracts and the
processino of onv cancellations and terminations. This should include steps on the recruitment and
selection of legal and other advisers under the recently signed PHRO. The Bank is mobilizing
consultants to review results of an ongoing industry sponsored study of royalties and revenue
arrangements.

Forest ConcessionManagementandcontrol Pilot Project. Government should complete contracting
with the Project Adviser and proceed with consultant selection and other project activities. The
Bank is continuing t o work with concessionaires,NGOs and the DFW on field testing of biodiversity
guidelines for concessions.

NewIssues. The Bank should consider incorporation of second generation forestry and natural
resource management policy issues into the proposed second SAC. Potentially important issues
 include: domestic timber market pricing; log export deregulation; decentralization of community
 forestry administration; judicial reform; Department of Forestry and Wildlife budget sustainability.

 Donor Coordination.With the posting of a Senior Operations Officer responsible for rural sector
 issues to the PhnomPenh Office, as well as Bank predominance inthe natural resource sectors, the
 Bank should consider assumina IeadershiD of the Donor Workina Group on Natural Resource
 Manaaement. The Bank should also consider preparinq a forestrv sector uDdatefor the upcoming
 CG Meeting,

 Background. Forests cover roughly half of the country (10-11million ha out of 18 million ha). Some
 3 million ha (most forested) are designated as parks and protected areas. A t the peak, nearly 7
 million ha of forests had beengranted as industrial forest concessions. This amounted to essentially
 all of the commercially valuable area and also included margincl and unstocked areas, Cancellations,
 mostly affecting relatively less valuable areas, have reduced the area under concessiont o around
 4.7 million ha. Most o f the remaining forest amounts to scattered woodlands, open areas and
 flooded forests, which while of value t o local communities and for environmental considerations, are

 I:icl!,ii t3autista.l .aguidxi. Il.\SIID, `l`hc \K'orld Hank

 tcl. 201-458-2450, cmail: cla~uidao~worldbank.~r~

   Cambodia                                                      Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

o f limited commercial interest.

Deforestation is proceeding at a relatively slow pace (by regional and international standards),
although there are increasing reports o f conversions t o agriculture. More significant is forest
degradation largely due t o illegal logging. There are no genuinely scientifically defensible estimates
of annualallowable cut f o r the country, but indicatively 0.5 million cubic meters can be assumed, I n
contrast, total fellings, 90%o f which were illegal in 1997, were estimated at over 4 million cubic
meters. I t is generally acknowledged that illegal logging has fallen substantially, but there is
evidence that it is beginning t o rebound. Logging, including illqal logging, generally focuses on large
diameter valuable specimens. Collateral damage (road and track clearance damage to surrounding
trees, etc.), and the long term distorting effect of removingsources of high quality regeneration,
leavesan intact forest, but one that is significantly reduced in quality and value.

Government Policy. Starting in the mid 1990'sGovernment embarked on an attempt t o aggressively
develop the commercial and industrial potential o f the resource. This was motivated by a
conventional view of the resource as an easy source of public revenue and as a foundation for
industrial development as well as by political and corrupt private pecuniary interests. The policy mix
included a range o f discredited protectionist measure (log export bans, domestic processing
investment requirements) and low royalties. Landallocation was inappropriate, concessionaire
selection was noncompetitive and nontransparent, contracts were poorly conceived, local interests
were not considered, and monitoring and complianceprovisions were nonexistent. As a result, the
concessionsystem was dominated by large foreign interests, with essentially no accountability, very
little incentive t o practice sustainable management and Government had no countervailing regulatory
capacity or a commitment to requiringacceptable standards of forest management. Bank sector
work in 1995 estimated that sustainable revenues from forestry could eventually average $100
million annually, but in practice havenever exceeded $12 million and are now in the neighborhood of
$8 million (an impact of the East Asia FinancialCrisis has been depressed timber prices such that a
more realistic target for timber revenueswould be around $30 million, especially considering the
extent of forest degradation in the intervening years).

Government at the highest levels has madenumerous pronouncements on its commitment to forestry
reform and, especially, to controlling illegal logging. Delivery on these commitments has been mixed.
 A t the DFW level, support for Bank assistance is strong and essentially all Bank initiatives have been
 enthusiastically supported and welcomed. Administrative capacity is seriously limited at both the
 DFW and MAFF levels limiting follow through.

 Throughout the Bank's involvement in the forestry sector, an ongoing concern has been the depth
 and breadth of Government commitment t o sustainable forestry and to due diligence in the
 management of public lands and forest revenues, Government's implementation and policy failures,
 while perhaps extreme, are not dissimilar to those seen in other forest rich developing countries.
 High levels of illegal logging and complicity from the military, senior political leadersand forestry
 officials are common features of the forestry sector. It was the depth of the problem, the
 potential of the sector vis-a-vis the poverty of the country, and the consensus among donors that




   Cambodia                                                 Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

raised the profile of forestry and made it a priority,

Bank Strategy. Following from the initial 1995 sector study, the Bank has attempted t o assist
design and introduction of reformed policies and strengthen capacity, while hedging with respect to
uncertainties about Government commitment. Because of this reluctance, resources were first
provided to Government through the TechnicalAssistance Credit, and through various ad hoc trust
fund arrangements. Only in the last year was a LIL project approvedand an implementation support
PHRO mobilized. Attention has focused on four aspects: controlling illegal logging; forest
management; concessionsystem restructuring; legislative and regulatory reform.

ConcessionSystem Restructuring. Government's prior actions t o place essentially the entire
commercial resource under flawed concessions has conditioned and hamstrung the entire process.
Bank and Government legal specialists have reviewed the concessioncontracts in detail and conclude
that, although they are unfair t o Governmentand flawed in various respects, they constitute binding
obligations. Inparticular, Bank lawyers arguedstrongly that the Bank should not interfere in the
contracts and that the Bank would be exposedto considerable risk by promotingarbitrary
terminations or cancellations. Government's Bonk-financed legal advisers recommended that the
performance of individual concessionairesagainst various obligations in the contract could be used
as the basis t o either force renegotiation or to justify unilateral termination. This would require
finding and documenting specific performance lopses related t o financial obligations, forest
management or other requirements. A Performance Review exercise was subsequently carried out
for Government by AD8 grant-f inanced consultants who identified systemic failure across
essentially all concessions (as well as on Government's part). Rattier than specifically identifying
concessionsfor cancellation (with two exceptions), the ADB TA proposeda voluntary restructuring
process. Building on these findings, Bank SAC conditionality was designed to require Governmentt o
pursuea voluntary restructuringprocess with concessionairesand t o cancel for cause nonresponsive
concessionaires(this conditionality is due t o trigger inthe Fallof 2001and a series of preparatory
actions is underway).

 The Bank has had extensive discussions with some concessionaireson this program. An industry
association has been formed and has broadly endorsed the approach. Concessionaireshave been in
 discussionwith Government on the requirements of the restructuring process, has negotiated a new
 standard contract (to be used as the model for bi-lateral negotiations). An industry sponsored study
of forest royalties and revenue provisions is ongoing and is a critical ingredient t o the
 restructuringhenegotiationprocess. Government has unilaterally canceled about 10concession
 contracts (without consultation with the Bank) for reasons that have generally not been disclosed
and which seem t o include inadequacy of a resource capable of supporting commercial operations (an
 explicit justification in the case of two ADB recommendedcancellations). These have not resulted in
 any ongoing dispute or claims against Government. Some concessionairesare clearly incapable
 and/or unwilling t o voluntarily restructure. Others are positioning themselves to assume control o f
 additional resources through consolidation of land from canceledor abandoned concessions. Others
 seem intent on operating without regard t o the restructuring initiative and clearly doubt
 Government's intention t o follow through,

 I<dyiHautiata-l.apidao, l~ASlU>,'l'hc World Bank

 t d 202-458-2450. cmall: cla#uidao~worldbank.org

  Cambodia                                                 Forest ConcessionManagement and ControlPilot Project

Some stakeholders, especially NGOs, are also unconvincedof Government's intentions and are not
persuaded by the extended review and renegotiation process. Global Witness, in particular, has on
several occasions called for immediate and unilateral concessiontermination on the basis of alleged
involvement of concessionaires in illegal logging. Other NGOs have called for greater transparency
in the restructuring process and f o r clear definition of the process. Their particular concern is local
community issues and consultations. Oonor agencies and the IMF have generally seem t o have been
satisfied with the process to date. ADB financed consultants, with whom the Bank and IMF
cansu!ted extensively, contributed heavily t o the definition s f the restructuring process.
Particularly significant is that the ADB-financed consultants were unableto specif icaily document
charges of illegal logging and raised concern that illegal logging would accelerate in the absence of
concessionaires. This supports the gradual and, t o the extent possible voluntary strategy being
pursued, I t does leave open the risk of concessionaireabuse of the interim period and of
Government reneging on the final steps. The risks of concessionaireabuses are small relative t o
damage already incurred and the risk of Government default is managed by the tranching of the
SAC.

ForestManagement.The scientific and technical basis of forest management in Cambodia is
extraordinarily weak. I naddition t o there being little knowledgeon forest dynamics on which t o
develop harvesting or other management prescriptions, there is no capacity or physical or
institutional infrastructure whereby Government can exert itself t o influence forest utilization. I n
the absenceof standards for routine and disciplined forest management, illegal logging has become
the norm. I n parallel with efforts t o control illegal logging(see below), the Bank has supported
development of a package of technical recommendationsand standards covering harvesting,
engineering works, biodiversity conservation, social issues, management planningand inventory.
These have been developed through technical assistance working in close collaboration with the
 Department of Forestry and Wildlife (DFW). A comprehensivefirst draft of the "Cambodian Code
 of Forest Practice" has been prepared in Englishand translated into Khmer as a component of the
 new regulatory framework for concessionforestry (see below). These general guidelines are
 intended t o be used by the DFW and concessionairesin the development and evaluation of strategic
 and operational plans and as the basis for the specification of approvalsand permit conditions.

 Introductiono f these provisions will be gradual due t o the general nature of these guidelines, the
 limited capacity of Government staff to interpret field conditions and t o apply judgment with
 respect t o the application specific features of the guidelines, and becauseof severe constraints on
 the DFW in terms of mobility, communications,and infrastructure. The recently approved
 Bank-financed Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project LIL ($4.8 miIlion) will
 further support development of this system through technical assistance, training, provision of
 equipment and infrastructure. This project is experiencing minor delays due to recruitment
 problems caused by clearance procedures at the Ministry of Economy and Finance.

 rl/ega/Loggiiig.Illegal logging is a systematic and predictable result of the flawed policy and
 operational system for forestry in much of the developing world. I n Cambodia, this has been




                                                             Forest Concession Managemenr and ControlPilot Project

accentuated by the affects of war and unrest and by continuing political instability, As noted, in
1997illegal removals are estimated to have reached as muchas 4 million cubic metersand possibly
more, I n the beginning of the Bank's interaction with Governmenton this issue, there was a general
effort t o deny and minimize the problem and to blame it on factors outside of Government's control
(the Khmer Rouge, neighboring countries). Government's only substantive response t o the problem
was reintroduction in 1996 o f a ban on log exports. This was never fully effective, poses various
economic efficiency problems and is largely a diversion from the underlying problem, Inaddition, the
Prime Minister has made numerous public statements on his determination t o see illegal logging
controlled, Government has claimed a 95%reduction in illegal logging. Until this logging seasoil
observers, including Global Witness, have not specifically challenged this assertion although there is
little data t o support any specific claim.

While the long term solution to an illegal logging problem needs to be rooted insound routine
sectoral and resource management, the crisis dimensions of Cambodian timber theft call for urgent
and specialized measures. Bank-financedtechnical assistance introducedsystematic data collection
t o estimate the severity and extent of the problem and the "Prevention/Detection/Suppression"
framework as the basis f o r a coherent and sustainable foreit law enforcement approach,

Currently, with Bank, FAO, UNDP, DFID, DANIDA and AusAID support, Government hhs put inplace
a Forest Crime Monitoring Project (this system is also specifically required under the I M Fand SAC
programs), This aims at supporting forest law enforcement by making available ona timely basis
information on the general timber theft problem and on specific cases of illegal logging. n , e
project provides training, equipment and expert technical assistance (identified by the Bank), A
modern ''Case Tracking System" has been instituted, remote sensing information is being routinely
assessedand data and reports are being collected from the DFWand Ministry of Environment field
staff. The most unusualfeature o f the Forest Crime Monitoring Project is that Government has
officially recruited an "Independent Monitor" t o report on the diligence of Government's own
efforts. Global Witness, a UK-based NGOwith an established program on Cambodiawas selected t o
perform this role.

The Forest Crime Monitoring Project encountered substantial start up problems, but has generally
proceeded well. The program involves several medium term capacity building activities and
procedures for data collection and reporting will require more time to be fully institutionalized.
Important issues have emerged on performance of the judicial system inhandling cases o f illegal
 logging brought by Government, the ability and willingness of Government to respondeffectively t o
 information on new case and on the conduct by Global Witness of its work as Independent Monitor.
 Several highprofile cases, where apparently strong evidence was presented in court have been
 overturned or dismissed by the judiciary, These cases are strongly suggestive of corruption and
 underminethe motivation of officials and staff to pursue new cases. I n other incidents,
 Government pursuit of information may have been selective and possibly biased by personal
 considerations. These are difficult to disentangle from other capacity constraints but merit
 monitoring. Global Witness has on several occasions, including around the time o f the recent
 Government/Donor meeting, enflamed the tensions inherently built into the Independent Monitoring

 I'vclyn Hautiste-hpuidao. I':ASRD, 'I'hc World Rank

 rLI.201-458-2450, cmaJ. elaFuidao@worldbank.org

   Cambodia                                                Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

arrangement. I t s release of allegations t o the mediawithout notice t o Government, the inclusionof
particularly inflammatory language and aspersions against staff and senior officials may have
ruptured the arrangement. Various parties are now attempting t o reconcile Government and Global
Witness and t o promote agreement on mutuallyacceptable protocols and procedures.

RegulationsandLegis/atiun,Government's Bank-f inanced legal advisers providedGovernment with a
detailed critique of the legislative framework for forestry development.Cambodianforest law (like
much of the rest o f the legal system) is a patchwork of instruments that date back into colonial
times. Proposed legislation has Deer! drafted at various time over the past sevenyears by
Government, FAO, AOB-financed consultants and others. Satisfactory legislation was a condition of
the first IMF program (canceled in 1997)and is required in boththe current IMF program and the
SAC. There are purely political aspects t o the legislative process which account for some of the
delay, These include rivalry between individualsand agencies. To a significant extent the Cambodian
approach t o drafting legislation by a lead technical agency is not conducive t o a successful process
for an intersectoral subject such as forestry.

Under the SAC, Government adopted a Sub-becree on Forest ConcessionManagement. This
establishes the proceduresand mechanismsfor DFW administration of the concessionsystem and
incorporates directly or by reference the key products o f Bank-financedtechnical assistance on
concessionmanagement.

A specific legislativeagenda has not been laid out f o r forestry despite considerable discussionand
public debate. Within Government, which has repeatedly and independently expressed a commitment
to enactment o f a forestry law (the intent to enact a forest law is clearly implied inthe
Constitution, Article 58), there is interest in clarification of the administrative arrangements and
assignment of responsibilities for control of public forests. Among other stakeholders, NCOs in
particular, there is concern about acknowledgment and respect for local communities use of forest
resources. Bank and I M F concerns includethese and additionally relateto the orderly mobilization
 of the commercial potential of the resource base. I naddition, throughout the drafting process a
 sometimes curious array o f provisions arise including such arcana as a proposed requirement that
 registration of a marriagemust be based on evidence that the couplehas planted at least two trees!

 The current drafting process was assisted by ADB-financed consultants who worked with a DFW
 drafting team, This team worked largely in isolation until a draft was released f o r public comment in
 May 2000. The draft that was released was a departure from the version supplied by the consultant
 and included provisions drawn from a wide variety of sources including colonial and other sources.
 These consultations were convened under the direction of an Under-Secretary of State of the
 Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF) who assumed ongoing responsibility for the
 drafting process. There has been a mechanicalapproach t o the drafting process at MAFF: all
 commentsare noted ond an effort is made to occommodote nearly all contributions, often without
 reference t o guiding principle or objective. Updated English translations are available only at
 intervals and the translations have been of exceptionally poor quality.




  Cambodia                                                  Forest Conression Management and Control Pilot Project

The Bank has focused substantively, in detailed comments on earlier drafts (available on request), on
four issues: definition o f the national forest estate and the clarity and consistency of provisions
f o r institutional jurisdiction over forest landand resources; provision for definition of feasible
administrative arrangements for management of forest subsequent t o the jurisdictional assignment;
various provisions with respect t o economic policies and revenue arrangements; and he need for
adequate protection of customary users and use of forest resources. Discussions with responsible
officials seem t o find ready agreement on the economic policy issues (provisions on log trade, for
example, were revised as suggested by the Bank). Discussions are amicable, but not definitive on
administrative arrangements (there is conslstenP recourse by MAFWDFW to language ihat is
unclear in translation and which might beadequate for the concession areas but which will be less
effective for other forest areas). On the general jurisdictional issue, as inter-sectoral and
interministerial issues are involved it has been impossible t o determine the viability of what is
proposed by MAFF. Discussion with Ministry of Environment (which has authority under various
instruments for parks and protected areas) only serve t o reinforce the sense that existing
 legislation is unclear and that debate at the interministerial level is liable t o alter the provisions of
the MAFF draft. Ministry o f Economy and Finance officials have declined t o discuss work ongoing at
 the sectoral Ministry. On all these issues, the Bank position has not been t o advance specific
 strategies or provisions, as various alternatives are feasible and would be satisfactory provided
 there is clarity and consistency.

 Integrating comments and suggestions from various sources is a difficult challenge for Government,
 especially when their own guiding philosophy is so weak. NGOs have consistently complained of
 limited access t o the drafting process. NGO criticisms have centered on an alleged
 Government-centric approach t o the sector and on a view that MAFF/DFW are seeking t o control all
 forest resources at the expense of local communities and nontimber resources. There is some
 validity in these criticisms, but some go well beyond international norms. FA0 and NGO tends t o
 recommend detailed and exhaustive definition in the law o f nearly all issues so that future
 discretion is limited, The Bank and ADB, have tended t o recommend aiming for enabling legislation
 and retention of discretion for subsequent lower level instruments.

  Second Generation Issues.

  Although absorptive capacity is a major constraint, in addition t o the current priorities several
  additional issues may merit inclusion inthe Bank dialogue with Government, Communitv forestrv,
  although referred t o in passing inthe SAC and dealt with as a safeguard issue inthe forest
  concession management context, is an issue that affects livelihoods of much of the rural population
  living outside of well forested areas. Government policy generally does not provide these people
  guarantees of access for subsistence purposes and does not providefor effective management o f
  these resources. Similarly, although the required sums are small, neither Government, the Bank or
  other donors are providing significant investment resources t o support agroforestry, village
  woodlots, fruit and orchard production, etc. Investment support for these would best be channeled
  through decentralized agricultural and rural development operations, but policy dialogue on
  decentralization of community forestry services and access t o forest resources could be




    Cambodia                                                Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Projecl

incorporated into SAC I1discussions,

Los Export Policy is currently restrictedin relation t o controlling illegal logging.I naddition t o being
ineffective as a law enforcement device, the ban is distortionary and reduces revenue potential and
exacerbates domestic over processing capacity. A deregulation policy could involve the introduction
o f an export tax or other measures, but needs t o be considered in the context o f concessionroyalty
reform and strengthened law enforcement. Government is similarly inclined to paternalistic and
interventionist policies in the domestic lumber market. An intention is frequently indicated t o exert
quantitative controls      0t-1
                              concessioncires t o force allomtion of timber t o local markets. These art
potentially very distorting and could contribute t o corruption and other problems. TOdate efforts
in this direction seem largely ineffective, but could becomesignificant obstacles to concession
reform.

Financialand administrative arranpements for the OFW also need to be reviewed and addressed by
Government. Conventional public sector budgeting and civil service terms and conditions will not
sustain the level and intensity of management being piloted under the LIL. Should these prove
effective, special budgetary and staff remuneration provision will be needed and justified to
maintain the concession management system (and the revenues which it will generate). Although
centralized supervision and control of concessions by the bFW is essential, the administration of
 community forestry ought to be inserted into provincial and district rural development and
agricultural development. Considerable dialogueand analysis will be needed to reach a consensus
 with Government on appropriate arrangements.

 Alternative forest manasement regimes for areas taken from canceled concessions have not been
 elaborated in depth. DFW management of areas not suited t o community management is a possibility,
 but Departmental capacity and policy need to be established.

 Donor Coordination.

 The Bank has expended considerable effort t o work collaboratively with other donors (especially
 F A 0 and ADB) and NGOs (especially Global Witness). No other agency has the level or breadth o f
 investment as the Bank in the sector, the high profile (and concomitant reputational risk), has
 worked with Government t o visualize a development scenario for the sector, or has been able to
 mobilize the expertise needed t o formulate specific programs. Nevertheless, FAO, UNDPand ADB
 are playing increasing, and increasingly disruptive, roles in the donor-Government process. Inboth
 the forest law discussion and the independent monitoring dispute, FA0 has exacerbated tensions
 and has not beenable t o provide constructive alternatives or independent assistance. FA0 and
 UNDP have both been ineffective in administrationof the basic financial and operational support of
 the Forest Crime Monitoring Project, AD8 was partially effective (with the support of the Bank) in
 the concessionsystem review technical assistance, but has abandoned the effective work of its legal
 consultants on the draft forestry low. Other donors, have supported consultants that.havebecome
 enmeshed in Government compliancewith Bank SAC conditions without consultation with the Bank on
 TOR or consultant selection.

 I.:vclyn l~auri~ta-l.n~uid~o,
                          l~~ASl<I>,
                                  'Thc World Hank

 IC].302-458-2450, cmd: claguidao~worldbank.org

  Cambodia                                                     Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

NGOs are becoming increasingly active inthe sector. Local NGOs, including the NGO Forum are
relatively constructive and professional, but approach the Government (and especially Government
technical staff) ina confrontational manner and with a highly loaded social agenda. International
environmental NGOsare becoming increasinglyactive in Cambodia, but are seriously divided over
priorities and approach. Conservation International (CI), a US.-based NGO with links to the Bank
through the Critical Ecosystems Fund, has proposeda major conservation set aside in the
Cardamoms Mountains (inthe southwest). This area is currently under concessionand the financial
packageoffered madet o Government by C I could result in difficulties coordinating activities and
projects, not t o mention maintaining the coherence of the concessionsystem reform program,

The Bank-financed LIL provides Governmentwith a senior Project Advisor who is expected t o assist
Government take a more active and decisive role in donor coordination. This should help t o resolve
some donor coordination problems, as should the appointment of a Senior Operations Officer t o
oversee the rural.portfoliofrom the Phnom Penh Office. Nevertheless, considerable specialist
effort will continue to need t o be devoted t o donor coordination.

William 8. Magrath
Senior Natural Resource Economist
East Asia Environment and Social Affairs Unit
 World Bank Office, Beijing
Phone 86-10-6554-3361 Ext. 2630
 FAX 86-10-6554-1686


 To:   Evelyn Bautisto Laguidao




                                                          Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project

The World Bank                                                   14th Floor,DiethelmTowerA         Telephone:(66-2)252-23057
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT            93/1 WirelessRoad                 Facsimile: (66-2)256-7794-5
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                            Bangkok10330,Thailand




                                                                             October 4,2001


            H.E. Keat Chhon
            Senior Minister
            MinistryofEconomy and Finance
            Phnom Penh, Cambodia
            Fax No.: 855 23 427 799

            H.E.Chan Sarun
            Minister
            Ministryof Agriculture,
            Forestry and Fisheries
            Phnom Penh, Cambodia

            H.E. MokMareth
            Minister
            Ministry ofEnvironment
            Phnom Pehn, Cambodia

            Your Excellencies:

                      IwouldliketotakethisopportunitytoforwardtwonotespreparedfortheWorld
            Bank relating to Cambodian forestry sector reform issues and to take note of several other
             topics related to forestry.

                      Comments on the draft CambodiaTimber IndustryAssociation-sponsored
                      Royalty Study. Inresponse to the CTIA initiativetobringsolid analytics to bear
                      on the issue of forest royalties, the Bank commissioned several leading authorities
                      to review the study preparedby KPMG. The attached note summarizes their
                      findings and offers suggestions on how Government and its private sector partners
                      mightproceedto settle ondefensible royaltiesand forest revenue arrangements in
                      the context of forthcoming concession restructuring discussions. Inthe
                      unanimous view of the experts we consulted, the draft study seriously under
                      represents the economic value o f Cambodia's industrial forest resource and needs
                      to be considered cautiously, including with respect to royalty renegotiations.

                      While the attached note does not recommend any specific royalty rate or formula,
             the comments do suggest at least three importantconsiderations for incorporation into a
             royalty settlement. One is that, on lands where timber productionoutweighs other
             potential uses', the basis for forest revenues ought to be the economic value o f

                                                                                                                    ...I2
              ' Thisdetermination,while in principal an economic issue, should realisticallybe made separately from
             royalty rate setting through a forest land allocation and management planningprocess,such as that
              introduced through the Sub-Decree on ForestConcession Management.



      Cambodia                                                              Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project

                                                  - 2 -


    Cambodian timber in reference to international forest products prices and not necessarily
    the profitability o f domestic wood processing by the current concessionaires. Second, in
    the interest of both Government and its private sector partners, provision should be made
    for periodic review of revenue arrangements and levels in consideration of evolving
    domestic and international markets trends, price levels, technologies and other
    considerations. Third, in addition to the level of the implicit royalty rate, the choice of
    revenue mechanism is an important consideration that couldhelp to strengthen sector
    govemance. Inparticular, serious consideration should be given to making fixed charges
    (such as area fees) an important component of the revenue mix along with charges based
    on volume harvested. Such combinatitionscan be designed to be revenue neutral and to
    fairly allocate various risks between Government and concessionaires, while being more
    transparent and easily monitored andadministered than volume based royalties alone,

             Environmentaland Social ImpactAssessment Terms of Reference. The
             second set o f comments, prepared by a Bank consultantwith substantial
             experience in Cambodia and regulatory practice worldwide, concerns sample
             terms o f reference (TOR) circulated earlier this year for environmental and social
             impact assessment o f concession operations. These TOR were preparedprivately
             on behalfo f concession operators in anticipation o f requirements likely to be
             imposed by Government in relation to reforms in the concession system,

             While recognizing the good intent behind the preparation o f these TOR, these
    comments express serious concern about the value o fthe proposed work and suggest a
    need for further collaboration between industry and Government inthe planning and
    assessmentprocess and for serious considerationo fthe way inwhich environmental
     assessment review and clearance finctions will be organized within Govemment. The
     comments include a number o f recommendations to take the required work forward,
     including utilization o f the first phase work for scoping of impacts and consultation with
     affected communities. With respect to the review and approval process, recommendations
     are made, such as limitingGovernment agency involvement inthe preparation o f plans
     and assessments and definition of a transparent review process with specified roles for
     the Department of Forestry and Wildlife and the Ministry o f Environment on the basis of
     existing Cambodian law and regulation.

             Ihopethatboththesesetsofcommentscanbereviewedbygovemment
     specialists and incorporated into Government's hrther consideration of these issues, If
     the Bank can provide additional suggestions or comments as you move forward with the
     concession restructuring process, please do not hesitate to ask. As you know, the
     ongoing Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project (LIL) provides
     resources to support technical assistance and other support and the Bank has ananged for
     a technical assistance grant to assist Government in implementation; and Mr.Magrath,
     our forestry specialist, would be happy to organize whatever additional support and
     clarification may be needed.
                                                                                                 ...I3




Cambodia                                                   Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

                                                 - 3 -


                                          ' 8  .      * .
                                             I ,
            F W y , Iwould Liketo congrabGovernmentonthepreparationandadoption
     ofdraft fionstry legislation. Thedraftlegislationwillgoalongway iohelpingtosolidify
     thc forestry sector onamtainab1ebasisandtoenhancingtbee~~nomic soc$L      and
     contributionof thensoutce40Cambodiandcvelopment. IrecognizethebaKfworkthat
     went intothe draftingprocessandtheeffortsthatWQZ madeto consultwidely and
     effbctivdywithhtertstedpartiesa dJtakebolders.IampleassdthattheBankwasable
     toprovideassistanceinatimelyfkshionandwant youtoknowthat ifthe Bankcanbeof
     fbrtherassisCanceasthclegislativeprocessmovesforward,youshouldpleaseletme
     h Q W .

            hconsiderationoftheirinterestinthaematlers,1amtakingtheh                  i of
     copyingthis lettcrtothe offici& lLstcdbelow.

            Excellencies, please acceptmybestregards.

                                             2 4   Sincerelyyours,



                                                     Ianc.Po*
                                            CountryDirector,Cambadia
                                           EastAsiaaudPacificRegion




     CC.     H.E.SumManit,SeaetaryofW e ,OfficeoftheCouncilofMinisters
             Mr.TySokhun,Director,DepartmentofForeskyandWildlife
             Mr.Mario de2h"cq,ResidentRepresena.ve,Ih4F
             Ms.DombiqwMcAdams,Went'Repnsentstr'vt,UNDP
             Mr.JeanCla$e Levesseur,ResidentR q ~ v eFA0                ,




Cambodia                                                 Forest ConcessionManagement ana' ControlPilot Project

_.-- --.
-
         The World Bank                       Genapycvae npancTayHiuTsa           Belarus Resident Mission
                                                            eyn. repuatm2A        2A Gertsenash.
         CJ'CBeTHbI 6;aHK                                   220030, r. MiHcr      Minsk 220030
                                                                                  Republic of Belarus
         MiXCHapOJIHblEaHK                               PxnyBnkaSenapycb

         P s ~ a ~ c r p y ~iuPsueisua
                              i i                                   Tel:    375 (17) 226-52-84
                                                                    Fax:    375(17) 21143-14
                                                                                                              ...
                                                                                        19October, 2001    -

         H.E.Chan Sarun
         Minster o f Agriculture, Forestryand Fisheries
         MinistryofAgriculture, Forestryand Fisheries

         H.E.Keat Chhon
         MinisterofEconomyand Finance
         MinistryofEconomyandFinance

         H.E.MokMareth
         Minister of Environment
         Ministry of Environment


         Dear Excellencies:


                   Following my recent discussions with Government officials on the forest
          concession system restructuring process, Ihave taken the opportunity to consult with
          Bank Management and to review available documentation on the concession restucturing
          process. This includes the report prepared for Government by White and Case (1997),
          Asian Development Bank-sponsored reports by Fraser Thomas Limited, (1999, 2000),
          and reports prepared by Global Witness and the Royal Govement's own reports on
          forest crime and illegal logging. Ibelieve these reinforce the observations conveyed to
          Government during my mission and suggest the need for careful and deliberate
          consideration as Government moves forward with forest concession contract
          renegotiations and ratification.


                   As you will recall, under the Structural Adjustment Credit agreement, for second
          tranche release Government has committed to have completed the forestry concession
          contract review and taken actions based on the outcome of the review, within the
          framework of Cambodian law and the existing contracts, by: (a) terminating non-
          performing contracts, where appropriate; (b) requiring other concessionaires to present
          restructuring programs, satisfactory to IDA; and (c) not awarding any subsequent
          contracts outside of the scope, rules, and procedures set out in the Sub-Decree on
          fcrestry concession management.




       Cambodia

                                                     2
.- - --
    __
                The World Bank recognizes the prudence with which Govemment i s approaching
       these renegotiations and shares your concem about minimizing the risks associated with
       unilateral action by Government.         Accordingly, we support Government in the
       continuation of a process that seeks to ensure that only concessionaires prepared to
       commit to full and complete compliance with Government's approach to economically,
       environmentally and socially sustainable forestry continue to operate. We are aware, also,
       o f the additional protections incorporated into the draft model concession contract used as
       the basis for re-negotiations and general safeguards provided by the Sub-Decree on
       Forest Concession Management.


                Nonetheless, Government should apply reasonable commercial standards to the
       selection of firms to retain and should, as suggestedby Article 4.2 of the Sub-Decree on
       Forest Concession Management, take due consideration of corporate track record,
       patterns o f compliance with law, regulation and financial obligations, and capacity to
       conduct technically sound operations.      In this context, we would like to underline the
       need for Government to take account of well documented instances of serious default and
       deviation by various concessionaires. These include cases o f convictions for involvement
       inillegallogging, pursuit of operations without compliance with Governmentregulations
       and requirement (in particular requirements for environmental assessment and public
       consultation), and failure to complete technically sound forest management plans. Some
       o f this experience may have been partly the result o f lax enforcement by Government in
       the past. In total, however, this pattern suggest that prudent commercial practice would
       lead to substantially higher rates o f termination and non-renewal than was indicated as
       likely by Government officials.


                Concem about the coherence of the restructuring process is, unfortunately,
       heightenedby issuance of approvals for logging operations inthe balance o f 2001. These
   .   approvals are difficult to understand, in view o f the ongoing negotiations, the
       incompleteness of management plans and the absence of filings of environmental
       assessment reports. We suggest that Govemment reconsider its options with respect to
       these approvals prior to resumptiono foperations inthe upcoming dry season. Moreover,
       we strongly suggest that Govemment revise the permitting system so that henceforth
       permits can be issued to coincide with the natural loggingseason(for example October 1            -
        September 30) as opposed to an arbitrary calendar year.


                So as to ensure that future Govemment action on concession contracts does not
        adversely affect compliance with the terms of the Structural Adjustment Credit, we
        suggest that Government provide the Bank details on individual renegotiated contracts
        prior to final approval. In addition, may Icall your attention to the Development Credit
   ,    Agreement for the Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project under which
        the Government undertakes to provide the Bank an opportunity to review and comment
        upon any Forest Concession Management Plan prepared under the project. Ihope that
        you will agree that this will assist Government in ensuring that such approvals are




     Cambodia                                                Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

                                                           3
- . --- ._-    appropriate and in accordance with international standards of good forest resource
               management.


                       Finally, we would like to acknowledge the additional time and effort that these
               measures may require.    Please rest assured that the Bank will make every effort to
               provide resources under the Forest Concession Management and Control Plot Project and
               the associated PHRD implementation technical assistance grant.


                       If Ican provide any additional infomation, clarificatior. or assistance, please do
               nothesitate to ask. Because of their involvement andintense interest inthese issues, Iam
               takingthe liberty ofcopyingthis letter to those listedbelow.




                                          LeadNatural Resob&       Economist
                                     Environment and Social Development Unit
                                               East Asia and the Pacific




               cc. H.E. Chan TongYves
                    Ty Sokhun
                    Urooj Malik, Asian Development Ban
                    Jean-Claude Levassuer, U.N.F. A. 0.
                    Ben Davies, UK DFID
                    JohnBuckrell, Global Witness
                    Mario de Zamaroczy, IMF




            Cambodia                                               Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

The World Bank                                             14th Floor, Diethelm Tower A            Telephone: (66-2) 252-2305-7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT 93/1 Wireless Road                            Facsimile: (66-2) 256-7794-5
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                      Bangkok 10330,Thailand




                                                                                                   December 12,2001

            H.E. Chan,Sanin
            Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
            Ministry ofAgriculture, Forestry andFisheries
            PhnomPenh, Cambodia                                                  ...I..-  El           I..              .p-..,-_.L,.._.,..L.
                                                                                                                                         ..



            Excellency:                                                                 -..
                                                                                         --.-  .

                                                   Forest Policv Reforms

                       The World Bank missionthat visitedCambodiafromNovember 27 to
            December2, 2001, to review developmentsinthe forestry sector has reportedon its
            findings and recommendationsand Iwould liketo raisewith you some ofthe serious
            concerns with the current situationand the risksthat they poseto the successof the
            Government's forest policy reformefforts. These problemscouldadversely affect
            continuedcompliance with the terms ofthe StructuralAdjustment Credit andofthe IMF
            PovertyReductionandGrowthFacilityoperations andrequireyour urgent attention.

                       FollowingGovernment's requests, the Bank missionworked with your staff and
            technical assistanceadvisers. It preparedan assessment ofthe forest crime situationand
            helpeddevelop proposals relatedto the Forest Crime Monitoringand ReportingProject,
            themanagementof loggingactivities after December31, 2001andon next steps inthe
             forest concession contract restructuringprocess. Iattach the results of this work and
            would appreciate beingkept informedofactions whichthe RoyalGovernment takes or
             intends to take to follow up on these proposals andaddress the issuesraised.

                       As Iam sure you will agree with us, an urgency has beenadded to the situation
             becauseof the imminentelapsingofthe 2001 loggingapprovals, the risks of an
             accelerationofillegal logginginthe current dry season andbecause of the concernsthat
             Government's intemationalpartnerswill raise at the upcomingPost-CGmeeting in
            January next year.

                         Illeeal Lozeing

                       Cambodia continues to face a serious timber theft problem.The level of forest
             crime appears to still be o f worrisome proportionsand higher thani s recognizedin
             official estimates and involvesconcessionaires, sub-contractors, and others operating
             within concessionboundaries in disregard of Government standards and required
            procedures. The inconsistency ofofficial estimates o fcrime and those o f Government's
            Independent Monitor, GlobalWitness, andother observers is a serious concern and seems
             to be due to a series of problems involvingthe structure of forest managementcontrol


                                   W Telephone: (66-2) 252-2305/07. 256-779214w FAX: (66-2) 256-7795

   Cambodia                                                             Forest ConcessionManagementand ControlPilot Project

                                                    - 2 -


        and compliance, the effectivenessof technical assistance, reluctanceto accept technical
        assistance, and delays in mobilizingfinancialsupport. Government's decision to
        authorizeloggingduringthe balanceof this year has also playeda role incomplicating
        the enforcementproblemandmayhave givenrise to hturerisks of acceleratedabuses.

                 We believethat it is highlyadvisable that Governmentmove quickly to resolve
        the problemsfacing the Forest Crime Monitoringand ReportingProject by acting on the
        recommendations madeinAttachment 1. Specifically,it is proposedthat Department of
        Forestryand Wjldlife (DFW) immediately increaseits field presence,utilizing funding
        under the World Bank-financedForest ConcessionManagementand ControlPilot project
        to support trainingand mobilization. It is also strongly suggestedthat DFW immediately
        move to more effectively separateinvestigationand enforcementactivities,including
        management ofthe Case Tracking System,to be more independent from routine forest
        management functions. We also recommendimmediateestablishment of a Working
        Group, comprisingDFW, the Departmentof Investigation(Dl) (Ministry of
        Environment),the FocalPoint, GlobalWitness, the FA0 ChiefTechnicalAdviser and
        the DFW Project Adviser, to commenceweekly work programmingmeetings andto
        providea mechanism for informationexchangeandgreater cooperationandcoordination
        in compliancemonitoringand enforcement activities.

                 Also the Case TrackingSystemshould be improvedthroughgreaterprecision
        anddisciplineindata entry, the ability to distinguishbetweenmajorandminor forest
        crime, the ability to assignprioritiesto cases for investigation,andthe re-establishment
        of geo-referencing of forest crime informationinthe DFW component o f the system.
        Finally, we also recommendrecruitment ofan adviser to the Focal PointCoordinator.
        The adviser wouldassist the FocalPointinthe reviewandevaluation of submissions
        from operationalunitsandwould ensurestronger internalquality control priorto reIease
        of reports.

                 Mana.eement qf Lopping Activities in 2002

                 Authorizationscurrently inplace permittingconcessionairesto proceedwith
        loggingactivitiesup to December 31,2001 present several complexitiesandproblems in
        terms of enforcement of Government's policy of requiringfull compliance with the terms
        of concession contracts and the Sub-Decreeon ForestConcessionManagementand other
        laws and regulations. Giventhat no concessions havepreparedand submitted for review
        andapprovalForest ManagementPlans andEnvironmentaland Social Impact
        Assessments, we believe that Government shouldenforce a full cessation of loggingafter
        December 31. Moreover, logstockpiles still inplace in concession areas needto be
        carefully managedto prevent the co-minglingof illicit new fellings. Accordingly log
        transport should similarlybe stoppedas of January 1,2002 pending completionof
        inventoriesof felled logs. These inventories shouldrecordfilldetails of log location,
        volumes, species, condition, originand other informationneededto allow accurate fiture
        identification,royalty assessment andtracking, Only after complete inventory,marking,




Cambodia                                                  Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

                                                   - 3 -


       mapping, receipt of full royaltypayment and approval andpublic disclosure o f a detailed
       log transportplan, should monitoredandcontrolledlog transport be permitted.

                  Government should continuewith preparationof detailed plans for log
       inventoryandproceedwith definitionof standards andguidelines for log transport that
       will provide assurancethat additionalillegalloggingdoes not result from the clearanceof
       existinglog stocks from concessionareas. Theseshouldtake into consideration laws and
       regulationsgoverningcontrolofstate property, collectionand analysis o f information on
       log inventoriesinrelationto recordsof past loggingapprovals androyalty payments, and
       other factors that might influencethe likelihoodof future illegallogginginconcessions
       and adjacent areas.

                  As agreedwith the mission, attachedas Attachment 2 i s the draft Prakas on the
       "Implementationof provisionsof the Sub-Decreeon ForestConcessionManagement
       (suspensionof activities andpermits)" that the missiondiscussedwith technical staff of
       the Departmentof Forestry andWildlife. We believethat this draft contains the essential
       elements neededto provideguidance to DFW,other agencies and stakeholdersand
       should be finalizedas soonas possible. Inthe development o fthe additionalprocedures
       andstandards, we suggest that efforts bemadeto ensure full andearly public disclosure
       and interagencyconsultationwithin RGC.

                   Concession Management Contract Restructuring

                  InconsultationswithearlierBankmissions, as well as withother donors,
       Government has indicatedthat definitiveprogresswas beingmade inthe renegotiations
       of concessioncontracts and inthe identificationof concessionswith whom it would not
       be appropriate to continue. As the Bank indicatedinearliercorrespondence, we
       recognize the value of continueddiscussions with concessionaires which might be able to
       ultimatelysatisfy Government'srequirements and standards for sustainable forest
       management. However,we do also believe that Government needsto act definitively
       with respect to concessionaires that are in clear andpersistent noncompliance andwhich
        are unlikely to be viable long termpartners.

                  As discussed duringthe mission, Government's LegalAdviser has provideda
        detailedopinion onthe contractual issuesfacingGovernment andhas draftedtemplates
        of letters advisingconcessionaires of Government's findingswith respect to contract
        breachand the remedieswhich Govemment seeks to pursue.These provide a concrete
        mechanismwhereby Govemment could moveto resolve some ofthe more notable cases
        of default andabuse by concessionaires andadvancenegotiations with other
        concessionaires as suggested byearlier World Bank-and ADB-financedadvisers. For
        convenience, these templates are providedas Attachment 3. We believethat Government
        shouldfinalize its determinationofwhich concessionaires qualify for immediate
        termination,andwhich qualify for other approachesand movethe process foward with
        appropriate notifications.




Cambodia                                                 Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

                 Withrespectto royaltyandtaxation issuesthat affect negotiationswithseveral
        concessionaires, pleaserefer to our earliercorrespondenceonthis issue. Themission
        suggestssome limited amouqt of additionalanalysis andconsultationwithin Government
        i s nekdedto arrive at a negotiationstanceonroydties and terms that would be
        commercially viable for bothconcessionaires andGovernment.

                  As discussedwiththe mission, we areconcernedaboutthe impactthat current
        conflicts over the forest crime monitoringprocessarehaving &d are likelyto continueto
        haveover the overall program. We wouldlike to take this opportunityto urgeyouto take
        appropriateactionto resolvethe situation.The WorldBank, alongwithotherpartners,
        would beWilling to help onthis matter.

                  Becauseoftheir interest inthese issues, Iamtaking the libertyofcopying this
        conespondenceto the RGCanddonor agency officials listedbelow.

                                                    Sincerely yours,
                                                 P+    I a n C. Porter

                                               Country Director, Cambodia
                                               EastAsia andPacific Region




         cc:      H.E.SokAn, DeputyPrimeMinister
                  H.E.KeatChhon, SeniorMinister ofEconomyandFinance
                  H.E.SumManit,CouncilofMinisters
                  H.E.ChanTongYves, MAFF
                  Mr.TySokhun,DFW
                  Mr.BenDavies,UK-DFID
                  Mi.JonBuckrell,GlobalWitness
                  Mr.Jean-ClaudeLevasseur, FA0
                  Mr.UroojMalik,ADB




Cambodia                                                 Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

IThe World Bank                                                   Washington, D.C. 20433
                                                                  1818 H Street N.W.              (202) 477-1234
  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND OEVELOPMENT                                           Cable`Address: INTBAFRAD
  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                            U.S.A.                          Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                                                       October 3,2002



               Mr.Ty Sokhun
               Director-General
               Department o f Forestry and Wildlife
               #40 Preah Norodoni Blvd.
               Phnom Penh, Cambodia

               Dear Mr.Ty Sokliun:

                                            Subject: Tiirtiber.Sale and Trniisport

                        I'd like to follow on our earlier discussions and talks with members o f your staff
                regarding the management and control o f existing stockpiles o f felled logs. As you
                know, Iview the mere presence of these logs in forest areas as demonstrative of the
                serious weaknesses of forest management controls and forest revenue systems in
                Cambodia. Moreover, any revisiono f the current prohibition on logtransport risks abuse
                and fraud and contributing to renewed illegal logging. Nevertheless, Ican understand the
                interest the Royal Govemment places in proper disposal o f these logs, the fir11 receipt o f
                the revenues due and the potciitial contribution of this material to local atid export
                markets, Ialso beiicve that a responsible, credible and transparent process i s feasible and
                could help set the stage for introduction of improved managanent and control in the
                future and could also help renew confidence in the Goveminent's commitment to forestry
                reform.

                                                     Risks riiid Experiuice

                        Several key principles should drive policy toward transport of parts of the existing
                inventory of logs in forest areas. These are all related to the disappointing and repeated
                pattenis observed inearlier episodes of "old" log movement. The persistent cycle of
                transport of"old" logs and new illicit fellings needs to be broken. A disciplined, well-
                engineered and transparent program for the existing stockpiles could mark a break from
                the problems o f the past. One consideration that provides hope that previous experience
                will tiot be repeated is the work now underway on instituting tighler controls and greater
                transparency in routine forcst operations. For a system of transport controls to be
                credible, it must be introduced as this other development work accelerates and kapplied
                in the field.

                                               Siiggesred Oper.alioml Prijiciples

                         In view o f the weak controls and lack of supervision at the time of harvest,
                Government nccds to give serious consideration to the possibility that some of these logs

                                              RCA 248423 0 WUI 64145 U FAX (202) 477.6391




   Cambodia                                                     Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

         were illeyally rellcd. Therefore, a substantial burden of proof should be placed on any
         party claiming possession and secking pcnission to transport. Applicants should
         provide clear and compelling documentary evidence that harvests were conducted in
         places and manners authorized by Coveminent, that all royalties, fecs and applicable
         fines and penalties havc beenpaid in full to the National Treasury, and should submit a
         full plan describing the intendcd methodof transport, routes, tinting and other details of
         the proposed transport. Prior to approval o f any transport proposal, the relevant
         Goveininent agencies, including the Department of Forestry and Wildlife, Ministry of
         Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Ministry o f Economy and Finance, should evaluate
         and verify all claims regarding the orisin of the concerned logs and proper receipt o f
         payment, make the related documentation available for public inspection and comment,
         and define a transportation monitoringplanto ensure proper transport andto prevent
         abuse.



                  Inevaluating transport planproposals and setting conditions on pennits,
         Government should take into consideration three dimensions of the proposed chain of
         custody process: 1) how does the applicant intend to provide for thc itfetrt$cutiou of the
         logs beingnioved so that they can be readily and reliably distinguished from illicit
         material; 2) how will logs whose inovcmenthas been authorized be kept physically
         segregnted from other logs (and especially logs from new, illicit rcllillgs); and, 3) how
         will lhe process be clocrrniettteti before, during and after transport? These and other
         aspects of an acceptable chain of custody system are dcscribed in some detail in the
         report on "Techtiologiesfor. Wood Trcrckirrg" prcpared on the basis of the meeting
         sponsored by the World Bank and the Worldwide Fund for Nature held inCambodia
         earlier this year. Iprovided to you a draft o f this in July and i t is now also available on
          CD-ROMfroin my office. Considerable judgment will be involvcd inestablishingsound
         procedures and Ibelieve Government would benefit by convening an accelerated multi-
          stakeholder consultative process on this issue.

                   Planning is also needed to make provisions for handling o f claims and niaterial
          for which the submissions o fconcessionaircs or other claimants do not satisfy
          Government. Where ownership, payment can not be satisfactorily established, or where
          agreement on transport procedures can not be reached, thc appropriate provisions of
          Cambodian laws and regulationon forestry and 011State property need to be brought to
          bear. These questions need to be fully explored and incorporated into a fully documented
          set o f procedures.

                                        Potctitial Techtiicul AppsocicIies

                   As we have discussed, and as the chain of ciistody report makes clear, various
          tcchnologies, including optical barcodes and other coniputcrizcd technologies are readily
          available and could be employed by the Department of Forestiy and Wildlife to assist
          with the current problem. The report also niakes dear that adequate controls are possible
          with less sophisticated and less expensive technologies provided attention is paid to
          vulnerabilities and opportunities for abuse. As we have also discussed, the Bank is ready




Cambodia                                                 Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

         'I'y Sokhun                                     -S-                               October 3, 7002


         to assist the Departinent with the iiecessary equipment and technical assistance under the
         provisions or the credit for the Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project
         and w e will do OUT best to help expedite procurenient and consultant selection as needed.

                                            Rcconinr ended Next Steps

                   On the basis of the principlesdiscussed in this letter, prior to any change in
          existing policy, Government couid consider preparinga detailed proposal for a revised
          system of controls and pemiits.This should be based on wide and lransparcnt
          consultationwith concerned stakeholders, including industry, representatives of the
          Natural Resources Management Working Group, NGOs and others. With serious effort
          and use of resources currently available to your Department, Ibelieve that a concrete
          pioposalthat could'gainwide endorsement and support could be prepare in as little as six
          weeks. This would require designation o f a senior team o f specialists from your
          Department and from related units of Govemment. They could be assisted by technical
          advisers already inplace and additional expertise which could be mobilized on a short
          term basis usingWorld Bank loan resources. The first steps would include designation of
           an inter-agency team and fonnulation of an initial work plan andbudget. This team
          would benefit from consultation with the existing Inter-ministerialCommission on Forest
           Revenue Systems. Iwould be happy to assist you in this in anyway Ican arid will follow
           up with you and your staffat the earliest opportunity.

                   Because o f their interest in these issues, Iam taking the liberty ofcopying this
           letter to those listed below. Pleasebe assured on my highest considerations.




                                                 William B. Magrath
                                         Lead Natural Resource Economist
                                Rural Development and Natural Resources Division
                                               East Asia and the Pacific



               cc. Mr. Chheng Kiin Sun
                     Mr.Net Mony
                     Mr.Jean-Claude Levasseur
                     Mr.Urooj MaIik
                     Mr.Robert Hagemann




Cambodia                                                  Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

 iheWorld Bank                                            14thFlcor,DiethelmTower A             Telephone: (68-2) 252.2305-7
lMERHAllONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DNROPMENT          9 3 1 Wlreless Road                              (662) 2567'792.3
.$NTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                      Bangkdc 10330, Thailand               Facsimile: (W-2)2587794.5



                                                                                           December6,2002

            H.E.ChanSarun
            Minister of Agriculture, Foresy'andFisheries
            Ministry of Agriculture, Forestryadd Fisheries
            PhnomPenh, Cambodia
            F a ;855-23 215982

            Excellency :

                       Iamwritingtoexpressmymostseriousconcemsaboutyesterday'sviolenceoutsideof
            the Department of ForestryandWildlife against people wishingto express views on the recently
            disclosedforest concessionplans  -inputthat, frommy pointof view. ha5kenlegitimateand
            constructive.This violenceseriouslyunderminescommitments to consultationandtransparency
            madeby the Government.At a time when the World Bankand others are urgingexpanded
            consultationon the foresuy proposalsbeforeGovernment, these events do greatharmto the
            credibility of that process.

                       For me to properlybrief World Banksenior management, Iwouldliketo request
             specific information from the Government on what hasoccurredand the steps that Government
             intends to take to preventareoccurrence.Additionally, nextMonday, Mr. PeterStephens, our
            RegionalCommunicationsAdvisor, will visit PhnomPenhand Iwill ask him, together with our
             CountryManager,Mr.BonaventureMbida-Essama,to look further into this issueandreportback
             to me. Your assistanceto them would begreatly appreciated.
                                                                               ,


                       Although there are many other issueswe will beraisingwith you separately concerning
             the World Bank's support to forestry inCambodia,Iamtakingthe opportunity with this letter to
             convey our deepest concernfor the mostrecentevents.Becauseof their interestinthese matters, I
             amcopyingthis letterto those listedbelow.

                                                            Sincerely yours,          \


                                                              Ian C. Porter
                                                      CountryDirector, Cambodia
                                                      EastAsia and Pacific Region


             cc:   H.E.Keat Chhon,SeniorMinisterof Economyof Rinance
                   H.E.SokAn, SeniorMinister,CouncilofMinisters
                   H.E.SumManit, Secretary of State, CouncilofMinisters
                   Mr.Ty Sokhun. Director-General,DepartmentofForestryandWildlife
                   H.E. Dr.Aun PornMonkoath,SecretaryGeneral,Ministryof EconomyandFinance
                   Mr.JeanClaudeLevasseur,ResidentRepresentative,FoodandAgriculture Organizationof
                         the UnitedNations
                   Mr.Urooj MaIkResidentRepresentative,Asian DevelopmentBank,
                   Mr.JohnBuckrell, GlobalWimess




            Cambodia                                                         Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

                                    FRX M.




                                    Klir'Ci)OM OF CAMBODIA
                                          Nation Retfglon Kiag

   MIlr1stt-yOf Agricahre, Forestry aad Fisheries

                                                                  PhaomPeob, December 18,2002

                      From:the Minister ofAgriculture, ForestryandFirheries

                             To:    Mr.Ian C. Porter, CountryDirector,
                                Cambodia,ErstAyia and Pacific Region

   Mr.Director,

   The Minisbyof Agticulture. Forestry and Pisheries acknowIsdgcdrcceipt of your letter dated 6
   December 2002. requesting clilrification on the incident took placein front of the Dap-mont         of
   ForestryandWildlife on5 December2002, causedby B p u p ofpeople who dcclarcd &emsclva
   BS rcpresantativur of local communities king in pmvinces with forest concessions. V ~ e y   came to
   complain abaut *a process of public dibclooure. the consultation on forest concession
   management and the wcial and mvironmcntaI impact assess" report. The Department of
   Foreevy and Wildlife @FW)had continuouslyclarikd these issues andthat group afpooplahad
   confirmed tba.4 they filly undcmtood what D W had explained to them. Neverthcless, they still
   dmondtdthat the DFW org;mizcd political ronrmworkshop.
                                      8

   This &ymn.d protracted from 12:30 until 17:OO on 5 December 2002. At that h e , about 50
   drmansrrasors, who wcrc not authorized by the authorities,blacked the accesa to the DFW &m
   17:Oo until nearly 20:00,regardlessthc continuous conciliationefforts offered by the Chief ofthe
   Pam m d a l IIDistrict Council, DJLWPcnh ward. At 28:30, tbe DFW Dirtctor sought the
   assistance of the autharitiesto facilitate the locked-inBtaff of the dcpartmont to 80 home. When
   thepolice h v e d at thc department, the pecple gatherod in front of the department werc leaving
   by thmselves because of rain. The officials 1eA the DFW premises safely. Under such
   c&ummces. the authorities did not u90 forcc or violence against !he demonstrators. What they
   didwas toblow the whistle to facilitatethe trafEc.

   At 20:46 on thc same day, Mr6 Eva Galabw fromGlobalWitIlCS6 wrote a slanderous email to the
   intunationat media and the donor community, alltging that a woman was missing, about 12
   peopIt were injuredand a manbadhis legbroken. She failed to montion&at about 100 officials
   and foreign expects werc taken hatage# far nearly 3 how. This can be verified with the
   internationalexpcrts working a?thc DFW, as well 88 a Cambodianlady who ww preventedfiom
   leaving DFW'Spremises to pick up ha young child from school. After this incidence, on 6
   Deoembsr 2002 the spokesperson for the Global Witness, M s b a i e Sharpt, issued a press
   statanent to echo Mrm. Eva Galabru's email, accusing the police and the milit~~y     policc of wing
   farce, beating and using the electric batons against demonstrators. leading to one dead.
   " m o r e ,   the statement requestedthe World Bank KOwithdraw a USSlS million SAC lornto
   theRoyalGuvtrrrment ofCambodia.

   According to a report Fromthe ground, a number of representativeso f the Global Witness and
   NcrOs have barred some fomt concessionaires &om undertaking direct consultations with the
   local commuNtic8, since they considcr this process as fruitless. Instead. they wmt the "13            to
   organizs: such consultationsin Phaom Penh. At the m e time. according to the information we
   rcccivd ffom the Provincial Office of Forcatry and Wildlife, some NGOworkers kave incited thc




                                             18/12 ' 0 2 19:50        TX/RX N0.5471              P.001

Cambodia                                                  Forest ConcessiofiManagement and Control Pilot Project

                                   FW NO. :                                Dsc. 18 2062 07:SopM PZ




  local pcople to protest agahsi forest concession and land concession devtlopmcnt. Mormvm,
  accordingto B rmark by the Minislry afhtcnor, h i s incident was inttntior\aliy preparedby mmc
  quarters to spoil the political climate before the generai elcctionr. On 12 Dacambu 2002, the
  Specid Rcpresentkitive of the UN Secrctw General for Human Rights issued a sktcmeni
  condemning &e death of a rcptnentative of the fortst community, allegedly caused by the
  crackdownassociatcdwith the UBC of elecaic baton duringthe rain. Tho two statements by Global
  Witness and thc Special Representativeof the UKSG for Human Rights werc a slander. The
  rpoktspcrson0f the Ministryof Lnterior i nfomtd thepublic that the v ideo tape cceived from
                                                                                          I
  Global Wimas, which filmed the demonstration from the beginning until the end did not show
  any cpisodo o f tho use of violence or electric baton by the police or tbc militarypolice against the
  demonstrators.Witnesses to this demonstration,includingthe staffmembersof NGOForum,who
  took part in thc demonstratim, also wed any us0 of violmcc by thc authoritics against the
  demonstrators. Mr. Hem Sao, who Global W i m a and the Human Right gmup alleged to be
  eleetracutedby thebaton, WILSnoton the list ofthc rqmsmtative bsntho R t a hVihearhvince.
  An unidentifd personwas transported to thc Re& Ko~samakHospital, but diedon the wey and
   rho- who took him 10 the hospitaltold the hospital staff that he was dyjng fiom a heart anack.
   Somepeoplewere slightly injured due to congestionor slippery duringthe rain.

  On a different matter, 1 am pleased to inform you that following many meetings within my
  dcparcmmt and with manydonors, we have decided that more time is netdcd for the process of
  d e w of the concession plans. Ithcrcfon have instructed my staff that:

           (a) The periodunder which commentscanbe mcivedfrom the generalpublic be extended
               to January31,2003.

           @) The consultationswith the local comunhies behtIdfor as Iongas is necessary,which
               we have always propoecd in any case. flrcde consultationswill be done on the basis of
               work plansandt m sofr c f m c tpreparedbythe DFW.

   pl-c    accept,Mr.Director,the ~SSOT~UICOI ofourhighcansideration.
   cc:
   --Ministryof
   --MhliSLrYq
      OfIice oftheEconomyof Ministers;
                   Council
                           and Finance;
               Of h t d 0 G
      W s t    of EnVhOnmCnt;
   -Ministry of Information;
   -PhnomPdnhMunicipality:
   --- Departmentof
       YnspeotionDirectorstc;
                      ForcswyandWildlife
       DepartmantofAgriculturalLegislation.




                                           18/12    ' 0 2 i 9 : s o    TX/BX ~ 0 . 5 1 7 1        P I002          m
Cambodia                                                    Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project

On December 5'h, 2002 at 12:30AM there were approximately 50 people from Preah
Vihear, Rotanakiri,Mondulkiri,Stung Treng, Kok Kong, Kratie, Pursat, M p o n g nom,
 Siem Reap and Kampong Cham gathering outside the Department of Forestry and
 Wildlife demanding for organizing a workshop concerning forest management plans.
This gathering did not ask for the permission from the local and competence authority at
 any level.

 The illegal gatheringof those people has beenprolongeduntil 5:OO PM. At that time the
 protesters closed the gate of the Forestry and Wildlife department by not allowing the
 officials and staffs of the department to leave the office when the working hour was
 finished.The illegal activity of closing the gate of the Forestry and Wildlife department
 had continued until 6:30 PM. The Director the Forestry and Wildlife department had
 proposed competent authority to help the officials to be able to leave the offke and get
 back home.

 Acting upon on this proposal, Municipal Police and Military Police department had sent
 their officials to the Forestry and Wildlife department to help the department's officials to
 leave the offlce and get back home. When the Poiice and Military Police arrived, the
 protesters who were gathering outside the Forestry and Wildlife Department had
 dispersed themselves meanwhile it was raining. After that Forestry and Wildlife
 Department's officials were able to leave the office andgo back home peacefully.

 Inthis case, police andmilitarypolice that went to dispersethe crowdneither used'the
 electric shock batons nor acted any violence on the crowd. They just blew the whistles to
 facilitate the traffic jam outside the department. The batons which were used by the
 police andmilitary police at that time were all their everyday usednormalplastic batons.

 After this event, on the 6' of December 2002 the Global witness issued a statement by
 condemning police and militarypolice for committing violent beaten and using batons to
 the crowd o f which led to a dead of a protester, Hem Sao, from Preah Vihear. On
 December 12', 2002 the United Nations Special Representative of the Secretary for
 HLUIXUI  RightinCambodiahas issueda statementby pointing at Cambodian auth6ntyfor
 using electric shock batons in the rain which led to a dead o f a representative of forest
 dependent community. The above two statements, Global Witness's statement and U.N.
 Special Representative's statement, =e completely exaggerated and contradicted to the
 fact.




Cambodia                                                Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

The spokesman of the Ministry of Interior would like to inform national and intemational
opinions as the following:
- Throughthe video    tape reviewing received from the Global Witness, which showed the
entire activity of the protesters since the beginningtill the disperse, we have seen no any
activity of the police and military police beating or using electric shock batons to the
crowd.
-  Eyewitnesses of the event including NGO Fonun official who attended the
demonstration also affirm   that no any violent act o f the competent authority to the crowd
inthe e+ent o fevening ofDecember 5*, 2002.
- Mr. HemSao who was saidbythe GlobalWitness andHumanRightOrganization to be
"died because of the electric-shock baton" was not in the name list of the representative
of the forest-dependent communities from Preah Vihear province. The victim was taken
to Preah Kosamak Hospital. The people who brought the victim to a hospital told the
hospital staff that he died because of fainting spell and asked the hospital to preserve the
body for one night.
- For those who got minor injury inthe incidence were causedby squeezing together and
by slippingduringthe rainfall.

The Ministry of Interior has noticed that in the past few weeks there are some circles
intentionally makingpoliticalatmospheretrouble before the general election to come.

For example: the gun shot incident took place at Kampong Speuprovince on November
 16'h,2002 which led to dead of Tith Keo Monyroath, second deputy commune chief of
Sambo Commune, Samroang Tomg District. Just a very short time after the incident
happened; competence authority has actively investigated the case. When the competence
authority was investigating, some circles have usedthis incident for their political benefit
by calling this case as political motivated case. In contradictory, the result of the
investigation through forensics analysis and the confesses made by the offender--Tit Keo
Mony Roath's nephew- who accompanied the victim to join the wedding ceremony in
Krang Lear village Sabaur commune has indicated that he was the one who
predispositionthe gunhand's triggered andledto the death of hisuncle.

All activities of the above-mentioned circles have reflected that their intentionis redly to
poison the political atmospheres before the general election, the importance historical
event of the country, which will be heldinthe few coming month.

Once again, the interior ministry would like to reaffirm th
Cambodia, with real political good will and determination
and spare no efforts to ensure good atmosphere for free and
Interior has had strict order to investigate the cases, and
send to justice regardless o f criminal activities includi
party matters.                                                                                                   L




Cambodia                                                  Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

F
I                                  APPENDIX 1


I                    Description of the SatelliteImageryStudy
             Responseto a letter sent by Eva Galabru, GlobalWiness




             sou,rce: Forest Concession Mmaqmt. and control P i l o t Projedt           -   5th Quarterly Js
             Report, March - May 2003 (Pxoject Credit No. 3365-W)




     Cambodia                                  Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

     Dear Eva,

    Thank you for sending me your comments. Le! me address them one by one.

     I) "Thestudy will show mainly changes from forest to m"reSt, but not provide any indication on the
     condition of the forest": b We can't be more accurate than that insuch a short periodof time. "andin
     particular whether areas should remain underproduction":
         b The information provided by this Satellite Imagery Interpretation Study is only            one part of the
             information we are using to evaluate the SFMP. In other words, it is not because the satellite images
             do not reveal any degradation of the forest that it should remain under production (or the contrary).
             You seem to overlook that a consistent process has been developed by the DFW that we are
             assisting to review the SFMPs and ESIAs. Many tools are being used to analyze all the information
             provided by the companies, for example, to assess the quality and the reliability of the inventories
             carried out by companies.

     2) Thestudy purports to show where logging has occurred in the recent past by examining whether new
     logging roads have been built since 2000. The assumption behind this is that in order to carry out logging
     (whetherlegal of illegal) one requires roads, thereforenew roads are an indicator of logging. Theassumption
     is really only valid only if we are dealing with untouched,pristine forest areas. Whereasin Cambodia most
     forest areas are intersected by roads, tracks and paths, which are not necessarily detectable with remote
     sensing, but that nevertheless enable logging to take place. So the study will not show satisfactorily where
     past logging has occurred.
         b We have never said that we intendto detect all the placeswhere logginghas occurred.This is nota
             forest crime monitoring exercise. One of its primary purposes is to evaluatewhether the information
             provided by the companies in their SFMPs is reliable and relevant. As you said, it will not be possible
             to detect and to locate all the logged areas, but itwill enable us to identify the most recentand most
             extensive logging activities. These activities are certainly the ones that affect most of the resource
             and these activities should be described in the SFMPs.

     3) Thestudy is using late 2001, early 2002 images. TWO logging seasons have come and gone, as well as
     extensiveconversion of forestland in concession and other areas. In the last few months alone, 7,500
     hectares of forest have been cleared by a high-ranking governmentofficial in the Samlingconcessionin
     Snoul, most ofcoupes 3, 4 and 9 of Colexim have been sold and converted, the RCAF Division 12 in the
      TPPconcessionhave cleared almost all the evergreen forest at the foot of Eastern Phnom Tbeng Mountain
     and the former security of GAT lnternational have grabbed extensiveparcels of land in the Southern part of
     the Kompong Thorn concession. Surely the Concession Management and ControlPilot Proiect can affordto
     buy up-to-dateimages.
         F The logging suspension started from the beginning of 2002. Most the logging activities in forest
             concessions stopped at that time even though others are still going on. Thus, changes until early
             2002 should provide a rather good estimation of recent logging activities prior to the logging
             suspension. This can be easily demonstrated when looking at the road nelworks within different
             concessions: e.g.#Pheapimex       - Kompong Thom, Silverroad... Once again the objective is not to
             evaluate precisely the logged area, but to use the road network as a proxy indicator to evaluate the
             informationprovided by the concessionaire.
         b Ifsuch bigchanges happened during the last months, Iwould be very grateful if you would provide us
             with such evidence (maps). This would be very helpful to the TRT.
         b I would like to remind you that the former GATFores   International concessionan
                                                                      Con es io Ma            wasContralPiLtPr
                                                                                                  official1 cancelled in
    Cambodia June 2002 and that this cancelled concession IS no! Incfudet in        %%emen
                                                                                        evajuaton exercise. aoreover,
                                                                                                               ect

I

         the examples you give rather demonstrate that when legal logging is suspended, illegal logging
         seems to take over.
    F In many other tropical countries the forest cover is updated every 5 to 10years. Until now we have
         92-93, 96-97, and 2000 (only for concessions) forest Cover interpretationand we will soon have 2002
         interpretation. We have enough material to work on and I don't think that purchasing a new set of
         images will be of any significant help in the preparationof the managementplans. On the other hand,
         I agree that for your own activities of crime monitoring you should be able to work on updated
         images.

4) TheDFW GISRS staff prepared all the maps and GlS data for the concessionmanagementplans. It is
writtenon the maps submitted by the companies and has been confirmed verbally by concessionaires                - who
by the way complained rather bitterly about D f W's excessivefees. I believe it is unrealistic for anyone to
expect the DfW GIS/RS staff to produce for this On-gOhg study anything different from what they produced
for the concessionaires. Surelyyou do realize that this constitutes a classical exampleof conflictof interest.
     F Nobody has ever disagreed with the fact that the DFW GlSlRS Unit prepared the maps for the
         concessionaires. Even DFW GIS/RS staff recognize it.
     F Regarding the 'excessive fees" about which the concessionaires complained, I would just like to
         remind everybody that the concessionaires were not required to work with the GIS Unit. They could
         have worked with any one else (or by themselves...) for less cost.
     b The interpretation of 2000 Satellite Imageryby the DFWis certainlyof good quality and isdefinitelyof
         better quality than the 96-97 interpretation. That has been acknowledged by GIS and RS
         professionals. There is a competent team that has the capability to provide reliable work. Moreover,
         this team will be supervised by an independent specialistwho has neverworked in Cambodia before
         and he cannot be suspected of having any previous relationships with anyone in the country. I will
         also supervise some part of the work while the specialist is not in Cambodia. I have already looked at
         some preliminary results and I am quite pleased with the quality of the work. Indeed, I,myself, have
         checked the interpretation of the road networks in different concessions. It fits perfectly with the GIS
         Unit's interpretation. Even better, the road networks are sometimes wider on the GIS Unit
          interpretation inside and outside of the official coupes.

Iwon't repeat the limitations of this study, sinceVincent Fesneau,did that duringhis presentation. Iwould
just like to remind you that the objectives of this study are, in a very short Deriodof time,to:
-- develop
   evaluate the forest cover in Cambodia at the beginning of the year 2002;
             information on some general trends in the evolutionof forest cover from 96-97 to 2002 inside
-existing  concessions, cancelled concessions, and protectedareas; and
   provide an estimation of the logged area by using loggingroads as a proxy indicator at the beginningof
2002. This will be used by the TRT to assess the quality of the informationprovided by concessionairesin
their SFMPs.


--- provide
Ithink that it is important toremember that the objectivesof thisstudy are notto:
    evaluate the level of degradation of forest cover ;
    monitor illegal logging in Cambodia. (FRM/INDUFOR/SGS has no mandate to evaluate these activities); or
            a continuous survey of Cambodia's forests.

Best regards,

                                                             Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

The World Bank                                                    1818 H Street N.W.             (202)477-1234
!VTER.NATlONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT             Washington, D.C. 20433         Cable Address: INTBAFRAO
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                               U.S.A.                         CableAddress: INDEVAS




                                                                                                   May 21,2003

             Mr.Ty Sokhun
             Director General
             Department of Forestry andWildlife
             PhnomPenh, Cambodia


                          Subject: Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project

             DearMr.T y Sokhun:

                      Iwouldliketofollow-upwithyouondiscussionsyouhavehadwithMr.William
             B.Magrath of the Bank's Cambodia Country Office on how the recommendations of the
             recent Mid-TermReview Team's (MTR)report canbest be operationalized.
                                                                                         t

                      Mid-Tem Review Report. At the outset, Iwould like to say that Ifind that the
              MTR reflects a solid understanding of the project, its potential contribution and the
              limitations and constraints that have been faced. Ibelieve it could be the basis for
              improvedperformance and long lasting development impact and would like to work with
              you to see project performance improve as the team suggests. It's open acknowledgement
              of public mistrust and lack of confidence, even as these may not be fully justified, is an
              important messagefor the Department of Forestry and Wildlife to reflect upon.

                      Broadly read, the review is supportive of the basic thrusts of the project and of the
              technical quality of much of the work that has been completed. Nonetheless, there are
              some aspects of the MTR that appear to be in error. For example, the observation that
              three concession Strategic Forest Management Plans have been accepted and that the
              concessions are awaiting approval for a resumption of logging (p. l$ Given the
              sensitivity of this issue, Istrongly suggest that you provide public clarification on the
              status of these plans and logging approvals. In addition, some of the consultant's
              recommendations are not well advised in the view of the Bank. The World Bank cannot,
              for example, support the consultant's recommendation for temporary licensing o f
              concession operations that might in any way be outside of the procedures envisioned by
              the Sub-Decree on Forest Concession Management (p. 16). Iwould, instead, suggest that
              concessionaires be directed to pursue the established planning sequence as rapidly as
              possible consistent with good technical performance.

                      Application of 5-year Compartment Planning. The MTR refers to a decision by
              the Department of Forestry and WildIife (DFW)to enforce 5-year compartment planning
               as an integral part of the concession management system. As Iindicated in my letter of
              20 December 2002, Ibelieve attention to mid-range planning issues is essential, and a 5-
              year compartment plan would be an effective way for these to be addressed. Iam also
              convinced that the 2002 Forest Law permits the Department of Forestry and Wildlife

                                           RCA 24@423. I=pWUI 64145 P FAX (202)477-6391


       Cambodia                                                     Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

                                                 -2-                                  May 21,2003


   discretion to require concessionaires to pursue sound practice and particularly to require
   concessionaires to conform to the future planning sequence to which they have
   committed themselves in their Strategic Plans. As most, if not all concessionaires have
    indicated that they will prepare 5-year compartment plans if their long-term Strategic
   Plans are approved, Ibelieve that there i s no effective constraint to application of the full
    planning sequence. While Iunderstand that you may wish to consult intemally on this
    matter, Ibelieve that clear and public confirmation that the full planning sequence will
    be applied i s essential for the successfulimplementation of the balance of the project.

             Community Consultations. Ifully support the MTR recommendation that a
    Community Forestry Specialist be recruited under the project as soon as possible to
    ensure that adequate procedures and processes ape pursued in future concession planning
    and control work. To operationalize this recommendation, Isuggest that you consider
    preparation of something along the lines of a "Social Issues for Forest Concessions
    Sourcebook".     This would give concessionaires, the public and your staff practical
    guidance on incorporation of social issues into concession operations from the planning
    through to logging and post logging stages. This could build on the recommendations
    made in "Social Forestry Guidelines for Forest Concessions'' (Fortech, 1998) and could
    be based on a consultancy, training program and pilot activities that could be
    implemented in the next 5 months. Isuggest that you consider consulting systematically
    with interested NGOs and others on implementation of such a program.

             Field Patrols and Supervision. Similarly, I fully endorse the MTR proposal that
    project resources be used more aggressively and visibly to support the presence of the
    DFWinforest areas including bothongoing andcancelled concession areas. To thisend,
    it would be appropriate for DEW to assign project-financed vehicles, equipment and staff
    to work in the field with NGOs and others, including those with whom you are already
    working in partnership. In any case, it is important to be able to demonstrate that the
    project is enabling DFW to exert controls on resource use through a field presence. I
     suggest you consult with WildAid and Conservation International or others of your
    choice, andor develop your own program for field activities that the project can support
     and present it to the Bank as soon as possible using the MTR estimate of cost of mobile
     forest crime enforcement units (Annex 4) as a point of departure.

             Forest Estate Delineation and Boundary Setting. It is unfortunate that the MTR
     consultants were not able to utilize the results of the ongoing satellite imagery assessment
     of changes in forest cover and forest degradation. This could have added considerably to
     the authority with which the team was able to offer an opinion on the overall performance
     of the concession system and the role of this project in strengthening it. Itis, nonetheless,
     important that this ongoing work be completed and made available as part of the public
     debate on forestry in Cambodia. Looking further ahead, the current project should make
     every effort to support the data collection, mapping and other work needed to establish a
     workable permanent forest estate (including, but not limited to concession areas). In this
     direction, Isuggest that you consider carefully any possibilities of cooperating, with the
     resources available through this project, with other agencies of the Royal Government
     and particularly the Ministry of LandManagement on work related to forest mapping and
     demarcation. In addition, Isuggest that you make an effort to identify ways to ensure




Cambodia                                               Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project

                                                  -3-                                  May 21,2003


    that concessionaires shoulder a reasonable share of the burden of boundary demarcation
    as part of the concession planning and operations processes, and work with other
    concerned agencies of Govemment to establish procedures and protocols for the
    necessary mapping and field work. From the Bank perspective, costs for such activities,
    within eligible expenditure categories under the Credit, could be financed by the Credit if
     agreed in advance.   .  Also, even if an extension of the entire project i s not possible, it
    could be possible to extend the closing date for these specific activity if needed.

             Public Afuirs Capacity. Part of the mistrust and suspicion that characterizes the
     Cambodian forestry sector, Ibelieve, is due to the limited availability of timely and
     accurate information. in my opinion, the Department of Forestry and Wildlife has not
    received adequaterecognition for its efforts in this regard, for example, the disclosure last
     November of concession Strategic Forest Management Plans and Environmental and
     Social Impact Assessments. Nevertheless, more needs to be done. As proposed in the
     MTR, DFW should establish under the project a designated public affairs unit with terms
     of reference that include dissemination and disclosure of information and documentation
     on forest concession management and other forestry issues. This could be organized to
     be in line with and help fulfill obligations on the Forest Administration under Article 6,
     paragraph Dof the 2002Forest Law.

             Work Plan and Extension Program. These recommendations are summarized in
     the attachment to this letter and Ihope will help you plan your next steps. As an
     immediate step forward, Isuggest that your Department prepare a detail work plan,
     including key activities and anticipated delivery dates, estimated budget, procurement
     plan and consultant terms of reference, for the next 6 months of the project that addresses
     the specifics of the MTR recommendations, particularly those highlighted above. This
     would build on the already approved program for the Forest Crime Monitoring and
     Control component, which you might also wish to extend, especially with respect to field
     activities and the possible needto finance the services of a new Independent Monitor of
     Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting.

             We hope that you would be in a position to submit such a work plan to the Bank
     no later than 26 June 2003. As you know, Mr.Magrath is in Cambodia and i s available
     to work with you and your team on the necessary documentation requested above and to
     conclude an agreement with you on targets. Ihave also made plans for a World Bank
     Social Scientist and consultant Forester to visit Cambodia in June to help review your
     proposed work plan and to assist as necessary with Terms of Reference, consultant
     recruitment and other support as needed.

             On the basis of delivery targets inthe work program you submit, Isuggest that we
     consult further no later than 15 October 2003 to assess progress and to determine whether
     the project has begun to move forward satisfactorily and, if so, whether an extension of
     the closing date is warranted. This review would coincide with the scheduled work of the
     multi-donor Forestry Sector Review and would take into consideration the views of a
     broad range of stakeholders on the impact and performance of the project. As input to
     the Bank's consideration of an extension of the project, Iencourage you and your team
     to think as broadly as possible of the investment needs of the forestry sector as a whole




Cambodia                                              Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

                                                 -4-                               May 21,2003


   and submit by 15 October 2003 a proposed design for a one- or two-year extension of
   the project that would address the most important sectoral development constraints that
    you see facing forestry.

           1 suggest that your team move ahead immediately with assistance from your
    technical advisers with the ongoing work of the project, and at the same time undertake
    the suggested activities summarized in the attached table, including preparing for the
    Bank's review in June of the detailed work plan related to the key recommendations of
    the Mid-Term Review. Please let me know of any questions or concerns that you have or
    consult with Mr.Magrath at your convenience.
           Because of their interest and involvement in these issues, Iam taking the liberty
    of copying those listed below on this letter.


                                             Sincerely,




                                         MarkD.Wilson
                                              Director
                            RuralDevelopment and Natural Resources
                                            Sector Unit
                                  EastAsia andPacific Region




     cc.    H.E.Chan Sarun, Ministerof Agriculture, Forestry andFisheries
            H.E.Keat Chhon, Senior Minister ofEconomy andFinance
            H.E.hChhun Lim,Minister of LandManagement
            Mr.CheahSamAng,ProjectDirector, Department ofForestry andWildlife
            Mr.Urooj Malik, Country Director, AsianDevelopment andCo-Chair WGNRM
            Mr.Jean-ClaudeLevasseur,Representative,U.N.FoodandAgriculture
            Organization and Co-Chair WGNRM




Cambodia                                             Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project

                                                   -5-                                   May 21,2003


                   SUGGESTEDACTIONSTO OPERATXOli LIZERECOMMENDATIONS
   r                                   OF' EMID-TERM LEEVIEW
       Issuflopic   Suggested               MainProject    ProposedFirst                 Bank Support or
                     ActivitylProduct       Component      Step              Date        Participation

    5-year          Confirmationof         Planningand     Press Release     lune 1,
    Compartment      applicationof 5-year  lnventory       or other public   2003
    Planning         Compartment Plan                      statement
                     requirement

    Community       Pilot activities       Planningand     Terms of          June 10,    Bank Social
    Consultations    leadingto             Inventory       Reference         2003        Scientistto assist
                     "Sourcebook" or                                                     and review
                     other guidelines on
                     community/social
                     concerns in
                     concessionplanning
                     andoperations

                     Project-supported     ForestCrime     Terms of          June 10,    BankForestry
    and Supervision field patrols          Monitoring and Reference          2003        Specialist to
                                           Prevention                                    advise and review

                     Programfor project    Planningand     Terms of          June 10,    Assistance
    Delineationand   supported             Inventory       Reference         2003        availableunder
    Boundary         cooperation with                                                    Bank-financed
     Setting         other key land                                                      Land
                     agenciesfor setting                                                 Managementand
                     policy and giving                                                   Administration
                     operational                                                         Project
                     directionsto
                     Departmentof
                     Forestry and
                     Wildlife and
                     concessionaires

     Public Affairs  Designationof         Planningand     Terms of          June 10,    Assistance
     Capacity        responsibilityfor     Inventory/      Reference         2003        available from
                     public affairsand                                                   Bank's External
                     information           Concession                                    Affairs
                     dissemination         Control                                       Specialists
                     function within
                     Departmentof
                     Forestryand
                     Wildlife

                     Short-termwork        Project         Proposed          June 26,
     Extension       planand Terms of      Management      Budget and        2003
     Program         Referencerelatedto                    Consultant
                     the above                             Selectionand
                                                           Procurement
                                                           Plan

                     Plan for Project with Project         Proposed          October
   I                Extensionof Closing    Management      Budget and         15,2003
                     Date                                  Work Plan




Cambodia                                                Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

                                   QualityEnhancementReview
                                        CambodiaForestry

   Summary

   Since 1995 the Bankhas beenclosely associatedwith attemptsto reform the forestry
   sector inCambodia. This includes a forest policy assessment in 1996 andtwo lending
   operations, a SAC and a LILin2000. Despite tangible successes donor andNGO
   criticism o fthe Bank's work has been strong. Both groups have challenged the outcome
   o fthe Bank-Government work, as well as the processby which itwas carried out. The
   mainthrust oftheir criticismis that the Bankhasnotbrought adequatepressureto force
   reforms---we havebeentoo tolerant of foot-dragging by government. Critics
   acknowledge, however, that the Bank's presencei s critical to bringing about change.

   Successesinclude (1) a reduction by 4 million hectares of areainconcessions withreal
   progress toward good managementofthe remaining 2.5 millionand (2) a substantial
   empowerment of civil society and donors intheir battle to create a transparent forestry
   industryoperating withinthe public interest. Goodforest governanceis far from being
   achieved, however, andmuchwork remains to be done at boththe institutional level and
   inthe forest. While Donors andNGOsare impatientwiththe perceived slow rateof
   progress, the panel's judgment i s that reform inthis difficult areai s probably occurring as
   rapidly as can be expected, andwould not be movingat all without the Bank's
   involvement.

   Despite these successes, the Bank's image, and indeedthe Bank's effectiveness has
    suffered from the following: (1) the inability o fthe country team to coalesce around a
    shared strategy on substanceandonprocess, (2) the early termination o fthe FAO/UNDP
   Forest Crime Monitoring andReporting Project due to the breakdown o frelations
    betweenthe Forest Crime Monitor, Global Witness, and Government (3) not having in
    place a clear andwell-articulated vision o fhow the recently-liberated 4 millionhectares
    are to be occupied, and (4) an insufficiently well-articulated Bank commitment to non-
    concessionaire forest users, especially the ruralpoor inand near the forest. The panel
    concludes that the LIL and SAC have had limitations as instruments inaddressing the
    long-term structural nature o f Cambodia's forest governance problem. Nevertheless
    carefully selectedforest-related SAC conditionality, that are squarely onthe larger
    governance agendaandare completely under government control, should continue to be
    considered inforthcoming SACS,

    We recommend extending the LILandusing the remainingfunds to (1) carry out aerial
    andfield surveysto verify the current statusofthe forest and establisha clear baseline for
    additional work, (2) analyze options for non-concession landuse, witha focus on
    poverty, equity, traditional rights, and biodiversity protection(3) carry out a participatory
    ICR to work with stakehoidersto develop a consensusaround next steps, and (3)
    maintainpressure on concession reform.




Cambodia                                               Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

  Interms ofthe htureof the Bank's involvement inforestry we notethe forest sectoris of
  strategic importance to achieve gains on the top two agendaitems inCambodia,
  governance andpoverty reduction. Bank efforts inthese areas will require a commitment
  bythe regionalandcountry managementworking incooperationwiththe Task Teamand
  EXT inorder to develop andcontinuously refine a single coherent view on the substance
  andthe process ofour forest sector strategy, andto develop and implementa proactive
  communications andpartnership-building strategy.

  Successes

  "he Bank's 1995 Forest Policy assessmentprovideda soiid diagnosis o f tne state of the
  forest sector inCambodia and led to a correct focus on concessionpolicy reform and
  forest governance. Subsequent TA and lending was, therefore, appropriately focused on
  reformingthe concessionssystem and controllingillegal logging.
  The 1996 Forest Policy Assessment identifiedover 6 millionhectares under concessions
  from some.30 concessionaires. Over halfof these concessions hadbeen established in
   1995 and 1996under unclear criteria and amongwidespread allegations of cronyism.
  Actual concession implementation variedwidely. Inaddition to lack o ftransparency in
  allocation, no systematic control o f concessionmanagementwas inplace, harvest was far
  above sustainable levels and government was receiving only a small fi-action o f economic
  rent.
  Important progresshasbeenmade, although key elements couldbereversed at any time.
  Followingdiscussion with Bank and Government lawyers, it was decided that no matter
  how irregular the allocation andmonitoring system, existing contracts mustbe
  respected'. Conditionality inthe SAC and support to DFW under the LILfor the first
  timeputteeth inthe sustainability languageinthe contracts. This has reducedthe
   concession area from 6.2 millionto 2.6 million, with additional reductions pending. As
   remaining concessionaireshave not respondedina timely mannerto the requirements of
   government, a loggingbanwas imposed effective January 2002. While there is evidence
   that illegal logginghas continued on some concessions, and government has created a
   loophole through the economic landconcessions, there i s no doubt that other concessions
   have suspendedoperations and overall logvolume i s greatly reduced.
   Onthe institutional fi-ont anew forest law was drafted and passedthatallocated
   institutional responsibility for forest land and establishedprinciples supporting
   transparent management inthe public interest2.
   These Bank activities have significantly exposed and challenged the control o fvested
   interests and empowered civil society and donors to hold government accountable.
   Specific examples include the cancellation of concessions, public disclosure of
   concessiondocuments, and greatly enhancedtransparency includingthird party
   monitoring.

   'It is noteworthy that the decision of the Bankto respect these contracts was very unpopular with the
   Donor and NGO community, and contributedto widespread suspicionthat the Bank would not take on
   vested interests.
   * This law also createdthe legal figure o f community forests.




Cambodia                                                       Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

  Current Problems


  For the Bank's critics the glass is half empty. Illegal loggingi s widespread, including on
  cancelled concessions, there i s no clear plan for what to do with the landunder cancelled
  concessions, andthe government continues to be a hesitant partner. Because o fthe
  Bank's leadership inthe reform effort ittends to beheldresponsible for the glass not
  being full. Inaddition there is a widespread view among donors andNGOsthat through
  its emphasis onthe concessions model the Bankhas gotten too close to vested interests in
  government and the industry, failed to employ its remedies when appropriate, and not
  seriously entertained altemative community-based models. It should be noted, however,
  that both correspondencereviewed and conversationwith the representative o f Global
  witness indicate that despite criticisms of the Bank's performance, they indicated they do
  not want the Bank to exit.


  Diagnosis

  Inthe panel's judgment boththe image andthe effectiveness o fthe Bankisbeing
  seriously undermined bythe inability ofthe country team to develop andcoalesce around
   a shared strategy on substance andon process. This requires (1) a dynamic reform
   agenda that evolves as progress is made and, (2) a strategy to buildeffective and realistic
  partnerships with the critical stakeholders. The Bank's programhas come up short in
   both areas.
   Lack of evolution of the reform agenda. Althoughthe reform agenda started off
   right-there  was no alternativebut to work on concession reform in 1996-the          Bankhas
   fallen behind the curve as this agenda progressed. In particular, the Bank has not been
   fully preparedto discuss alternatives outsidethe concessions model as 4 millionhectares
   were removed from concessions as a result of the success o fthe concession reform
   strategy. On the other hand, the Bank's work program inthis area i s constrained as the
   Government has beenhesitant to take on the issue andpresently lacks the capacity to
   address it (apart from law enforcement). Although alternatives such as community-based
   models hadbeen discussedinternally and analytical work on social forestry issues has
   been ongoing through a PHRD TA grant, the Bank didnot keep pace with the demands
   andexpectations ofthe public, NGOanddonor community. Consequently, options were
   not fully developed and discussed with government andstakeholders. This inability to
   keep up with the demand by producing and disseminating substantive results inthis area,
   only strengthenedthe perception that the Bank was somehow too close to vested interests
   inthe area ofconcessions.
   Failure of the country team to develop and coalesce arounda shared strategy. The
   lack o fclarity on where we want to go has impeded agreement on how to get there, in
   particular how to deal with government, donors andNGOs. Widening the base of issues
   that the Bank is viewed to be working on inforest policy would create more points of
   contact with the substantial agenda o fpotential Donor andNGOpartners. Inadditionthe




Cambodia                                              Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

  Bankteam needsto agreeonhow to managerelationshipswithkey stakeholders: e.g.
  how to deal with the few skeptic NGOswho are not likemindedinterms o fprocess and
  outcomes; whenthe Bank i s to lead, when it should let others take the lead.

  Donors andNGOswant the Bank to take the lead on analytical work, and indialogue
  with government. The team needs to agreeon astrategyto generatebroad ownership in
  the former, and to better explain our limitations inthe latter. On analytical work
  especially, everyone on the team needsto understandthat inCambodia, even more than
  inother countries, theBankneedsto balancehighstandardsofanalytical rigor with a
  process that strengthenspartnerships.This also holds true for project implementation.
  Responsibility and accountability for this strategy and its implementation must be shared
  bythe countrymanagementteam andthe TTL. Their interest andparticipation inthe
  QERhas demonstrated ahigh-levelofcommitment to the work andsignals that the
  neededelements are comingtogether for this to occur.

  Failureo fthe environmental crimes project. The coherence o fthe Bank-ledreform has
  been badly damagedby the earlytermination ofthe FAO/UNDP Forest Crime
   Monitoring andReportingProject due to the breakdown o frelations between the Forest
   CrimeMonitor, GlobalWitness, and Government. This left a fundamental legmissing
   from the concessionsreformpackage. Inretrospect that Bank should have allocated
   moreresources to the project (see discussion o f instruments below) andadequately
   funded andensuredimplementation ofacomponent so fundamental to overall success3.

   Credibility. Doubts raised concerning the economic viability ofconcessions andthe
   Bank's downgrading of foregone revenue estimates have done some harmto our
   credibility. Thesereflect bothreduced timber prices since the 1996analysis, andbetter
   knowledge with regard to the productivity of the forest.
   Bankinstruments. The panel feels that the earlyESWandTA reports were o f generally
   highquality. As suggestedabove, our analytical work didnot adequately evolve as the
   concessionsituation changed. Bank work on the ground suffered from insufficient
   resourcesresultingfrom the choice o f a LILY  which inany case was not structured as a
   learning andinnovation exercise. As suggestedabove, the absenceo f Bank control in
   implementing the forest crimes component turned out to havebeena serious error. The
   use o fthe SAC to carry governance conditionality within the context of the forest sector
   was fully appropriate and coherent with the loans governance objectives. The link to
   general conditionalitythrough the development letter was amistake fully recognized by
   management.


   Recommendations.


   Stay involvedinthe forest sector inCambodia. This sector i s ofcritical importance
   both for institutional and governance reform and for povertyreduction. Forest sector
   reform is inmanyways critical to governance and institutionalreform. First, as well

   3




Cambodia                                              Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

  documented inthe Bank's 2003 WDR, the OED Forest Sector Review and the work of
  Paul Collier and others, poor governanceofnatural resourcewealth helps finance
  corruption and abuse of power inother segmentso fsociety, diverts entrepreneurial talent
  to "take not make", andpermits government to be less responsive to its citizens. Were
  the Bankto exit from the forestry sector at this time it would hurt the Bank's credibility
  and effectiveness not only inthe forest sector, but inthe overall countryprogram.

  ExpandESW on alternatives for the forest sector inCambodia, and includemajor
  stakeholders to the extent possible. This might include a learningICR for the LIL. In
  order to ensure ownership and to generateconsensuson the way forward this should be
  donejointly with our major stakeholders. Lnview o fthe ongoing reduction o fconcession
   land, and emerginginterest incommunity-based models, solid analysis is needed o f(1)
  the potential for communitybasedforestry and(2) alternative concession and community
  basedsystems. Current estimates are that 80-90 thousandhectares are under community
   forestry. Indicativecalculations by GTZ apparently indicate that nearly 9 million
   hectares (out o fsome 10-11million o ftotal forest) have potential for community forestry.
   Clearly much analytical work is needed.

   Use remainingresourcesfromthe extension of the LIL to establish a new baselineof
   forest conditionsand to strengthen partnerships. Carry out anaerial photography-
   based forest assessmentcomplemented with field measurementsandsurveys. This
   survey should includeidentification of logging activities, sample forest inventories, and a
   mapping o fcommunities. This would establish an updatedbaseline for considering
   future forest options. Its design and implementation should ensurethat information
   generatedi s ofhighquality and, inthe interests o f complete transparency, hlly available
   to the public, includingboth the sourcedata (air photos) andthe accompanying analyses.

    Keeppressureon concession reform. The Bank mustkeep pressureon concession
    reform. This includes ensuring through Bank no objections the highest international
    standardsinmanagement plans (including social and sustainability criteria), as well as
    fully professional monitoring and evaluation ofperformance.

    Continue to useAdjustment conditionalityto achieveimprovements in forest sector
    governance. Forest sector governance is critical to the largerissueso finstitutional
    development andnational governance. Adjustment conditionality should focus on very
    well-defined govemance improvements that are completely under the control o f
    government.

    Develop a strategic communicationsstrategy and implementit. The communications
    strategy needsto fidfill three functions: (1) communicate the Bank's strategic thinking
    effectively to stakeholders and help to manage expectations, (2) guarantee effective
    communication and dialogue betweenthe Bank and stakeholders to develop a coherent,
    sharedimplementation strategy, includinga better understanding o fthe limitations of
    each o fthe partners, and (3) to develop the incipient local civil society into an effective
    constituency for institutional change. The Bank needs to shift its alliances and dialogue




Cambodia                                              Forest Concession Management and ControlPilot Project

  from dependenceoninternational NGOsandDonorsto one involving an increasingly
  national constituency.




Cambodia                                   Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

From:   Steven N.Schonberger on 07/29/2004 07:13 PM ZE7
                  EASRD


To:     Perer Jipp/Person/Wor Id Bank@WorIdBank, Kimberly Versak/Person/Wor Id Bank@WorldBank
cc:     Mudita Chamroeun/Person/WorId BankBWorldBank, Hoonae Kim/Person/World BankBWorldBank,
        William B. Magrath/Person/WorId Bank@WorldBank,Nisha Agrawal/Person/World Bank@WorldBank,
         Peter L. Stephens/Person/World Bank@WorldBank,Ian C. Porter/Person/World BankBWorldBank
bcc:
Subject: Meeting with GW

Given the tone of the latest letter, Iwent t o see GW Mike Davis and Markus with Mudita.
                                                        -                          -

GW indicated following:

   0    They feel that "nothing has changed" despite assurancefrom Ianand NIsha that we would
        work in concert with the other donors and the results of the Indpt. Review
   0    Bank is trying t o salvage the concessionsystem as the main management system for
        production forests at all costs, in part at least t o justify the money we've already sunk into
        concessionsreform. While the concessions have been reduced this has nothing to do with
        the LIL (areas logged out) which is focusing on supporting continued concessions in the six
        concessionswhich represent virtually all of the commercially valuable areas.
   0    We have been pushing log transport independently of FA and the other donors
   0    The WB has endorsed that six concessions go forward through the LIL
   0    Our advocacy of the concessionsystem demonstrates that we are not sincere in our
        indications that we would work with the other donors based on the results of the indpt.
        review which recommendedstopping the concessionsystem

Iresponded:


   0    I n terms o f transport, we responded to a request from govt. and discussed this with the
        other donors. We were not asked for approval but for our views on how this could be done.
    0   I n terms of concessions,it is clear that we are not advocating this system for expansion but
        simply supporting an orderly wind down from the initial situation. This is confirmed by the
        provisions of the Subdecree on Forest Concessions (with which we have indicated our
        agreement) which stipulates that the cancelled concessions cannot be rebid out for forest
        concessions.
    0   IdisagreedthothesixconcessionsrecommendedbyTRTconstitutetheonlyviableareasin
        Cambodia. The fact that the TRT recommendedthe largest and politically most connected
        concesssion  - Pheapimex   - forcancellation is encouraging.
                                                     -
    0   We have worked in close collaboration with the other donors on all aspects including the
        proposedtransport and SFMP review As the lead technical donor in the sector, we are
        often in the position of presenting the situtation t o the group to clarify govt.'s position and
        suaqesting ways forward, but we do so with the expectation that others will challenge these




Cambodia                                                 Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

       views and this in fact does happen. We recognize that not all donors may be able t o fully
       capture the issues being discussedat the time or may reconsider afterwards, but in this
       case the donors concerned should indicatedtheir reservations or uncertainties as input t o
       the process rather than express outside the consultative process that they are not sure if
       they agree or not. This hardly constitutes major dissensionamongst donors.
        The disagreement in terms of concessions is now focused on whether it is reasonable to
       expect that any of the existing concessionaires will act or can be managed t o act consistent
        with sustainable forestry practices. WB believes that this is possible if the SFMPsare
        reasonably good, while GW does not believe this is possible given the types of abuses which
        these firms engaged in previously.
        We have not endorsed anything regarding the SFMPs. The technical review team works for
        government and our responsibility is to ensure good TORS,qualified applicants and a
        transparent selection process. We have under the LIL the right t o comment on the TRT
        results and we have chosen t o join the other donors in supporting an independent review of
        the SFMPs recommendedt o continue. We are awaiting these results before we indicate our
        agreement or disagreement with the TRT and have not reviewed the plans or the TRT
        comments independently at this point. I f we have concerns regarding the indpt. review, we
        will review directly the concerned plans.
   e    As regards the independent review, we agreed that our future engagement in forestry would
        be guided by the sector review, but not in the sense of following all recommendations but
        rather that this would be the basis for discussionand reaching concensus with other
        stakeholders on how we focus our future support. We are preparing comments t o discuss
        with others.

We se:ems t o haveagreed on the following:

   e    While focusing on concessionsas the key issuesome years back seemed the right way t o go,
        our own internal review agrees with the concerns of several stakeholders that we should
         have maintained a broader approach t o forest resource management, particularly as the
         issue of pose-concessionmanagement systems begant o emerge. This was highlighted in our
         internal QER and shared at the forest review workshop. We are expanding on the previous
         support for partnership type approaches including to WCS and Wild Aid. We hoped to also
         support FA0 community forestry but govt. did not agree t o use credit funds for this.
         We agree that moving forward the emphasis should be on alternative managemetnsystems,
         including experiments with partnership forestry, combined with efforts t o bring as much
         transparency and accountability t o the annual coupe system in the mean time.
          If doesnotprovideareasonableplanfortransportofexistinglogs,weshould
             Government
         indicate clearly that we do not support the proposed transport given the risks. If      govt.
         chooses not t o transport, we will all accept that decision. I n the case that govt. chooses t o
         transport, the Bank TA should focus, inter alia, on ensuring the royalty status of the logs.
   e     If ontheindpt.evaluationandourownreview,noneoftheSFMPsqualifyforrenewal,
            based
         the concessionsystem should be concluded. WB would consider the program succussful in
         supporting an orderly process, introducing practical mechanisms of transparency and




Cambodia                                                 Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project

         technical requrements which are pioneering in the Cambodia context and we would consider
         this sufficient accomplishment.

Where we may end up disagreeing:

    a    If proposesalogtransportplanwhichincorporatesthesuggestionsfromusandthe
            govt.
         donor working group, then we would be supportive and GW would remain opposed.
    0    If indpentreviewoftheTRTrecommendationsand/orourownreviewconcludesthat
            the
         some of the plans should go ahead, we will be supportive and GW wiii be opposed.

 As WB and GW are about the only agencies dedicating significant time to forestry, it behooves us to
work to help others clarify the areas where we disagree and why, rather than personalize the issue
 or imply there is some kind o f conspiracy going on which is frankly counterproductive. As the indpt.
 review emphasized, the primary dialogue and accountability should be with govt. and not between
 donors or donors and NGOs. The later simply distracts from focusing on the very difficult, big
 picture issues and frankly plays into the hands of the vested interests opposed to reforms.

 GW appealed that we not focus our efforts on trying t o fix what is already in place and bad
 (concessions, Tumring) which they feel is hopeless or easily deviated, but instead focus on
 introducing examples of new good alternatives which might gain momentum.

 While the meeting was often tense, overall there was a sense that we are on the same side but .
 there are still some specific issues over which we disagree and depending on how govt. acts. we may
 end up on different sides of these issues. I nthat case, we know that they will use their advocacy
 tools as they have, but emphasized that we will keep our eye on the bigger pictureand as long as
 they do as well there will be scope t o work together.

 The ride going forward will depend on what happens with the transport and SFMPs. Important that
 we keep our role relative t o govt. clear in our discussions with govt., donors and NGOs, as well as
 letters, aide memoires, etc. as GW really wants to paint this as all W8 unilateral decisions rather
 than WB responding to RGC initiatives which is what the donors still believe (accurately) t o be the
 case, If  some concessionscontinue, we'll just have to ride it out and meanwhiletake more
 leadership on the development of alternative management options and help lead the charge in
 insistingon transparency and accountability in the annual coupe process.

 Peter  - thiswas all based on my involvement in your discussions during the last missionand with Bill
 during the SFMP review mission. I f any major errors, let me know and I'llconvey t o GW.

 Regards




Cambodia                                                  Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

                                           Forestry ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project


                                            ANNEX5
                             DETAILED   CHRONOLOGY OF KEY EVENTS




 June 1997          Foregty studieitand                                    i Policy (2           nical
 1999               Assistance (TA) Proj




 July 1                   roj
 2000




,June 5,2000       "FCMCl?P Approved
 July 6, 2000       FCMCPPDevelopment Credit Agreement siqned
                     GOwnespondence d
                     one by WCS-withFA a
 October 20,2000
    ua                    Grant appioved                                                         ing
                           implementation
 February8,2001                                             ement in project activities




                                               113

       Cambodia




November 13,2002   Governmentoppositionpoliticianswrite to Bank President about forestry issues
                   NGO-ledWorkshops                                                                       ts of
                 . c,omments sub'mitted
December 5,2002    Crowdin front of FA building on SFMPlESlA consultations dispersed by police


December 19,2002




                   Bankvs&
                   concern
Julv 21.2003                     SFMPlESlA consultations




                                                                                            nt and consuitation

February 3,2005    Bank seeks complementary donor support to complete of Independent Review of SFMPslESlAs




                                                   114

                                         Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


                                          ANNEX6.
                CAMBODIA'SFQRESTMANAGEMENTREGULATORYREGIME

1.      A successful forest regulatory regime needs to provide managers and regulators
with the legal, regulatory, contractual and other bases on which to compel resource users
to abide by acceptable standards and practices in the conduct o f forestry operations in a
wide range of potential circumstances. Regulatory systems should avoid unnecessarily
rigid prescriptions and allow for flexible decision-making through well planned and
monitored adaptive management and research. Room must be made for practical
decisions to be based on local site conditions, the progress o f forest stand development,
needs o f local users, site-specific biodiversity conservation considerations, and technical
innovation. Guidance to regulators and operators must express clear expectations and
should be written in such a way as to reduce the chance of misinterpretation. In
developing countries, practical consideration must be given to: the skills and sensitivities
of operators and field regulatory staff; the communications, mobility and other logistical
capacities o f controlling agencies; the range and types o f equipment, forest types, terrain,
weather and other aspects of the local forest industry.Inlight o f the wide gap that exists
between conventional logging practices and acceptable standards in most developing
countries, regulatory regimes will need to be carehlly and pragmatically sequenced in
order to promote and encourage incremental improvement ina practical manner.

2.      Since 1997, the regulatory regime for forest management in Cambodia has been
developed incrementally through three linkedefforts:

    0   Forest concession management studies under the Technical Assistance Project
        (1997 to 1999);

    0   Asian Development Bank-supported Sustainable Forestry Project (2000 to 2002);
        and,

    0   Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project (2002 to the present).

3,      The regulatory regime consists o f six specific components: overarching national
legislation; legal regulations; legal standards o f sustainable forest management; a three-
tiered planning process; planning and operational guidelines that provide direction to the
forest planning process at all levels; and contracts, permits and licenses.

4.      Forest planning processes generally fhction at a number o f levels, reflecting a
range o f spatial scales and time horizons. Technical guidance embodied or reflected in
various reference material, as well as standard accepted forestry, engineering, social and
environmental practice, are usually not, in themselves, mandatory requirements but
become enforceable when stipulated inan approved license, plan, permit or contract.

5.      The components o f the regime are described below:




                                              115

Cambodia



  0   National Legidation. An "umbrella" forest law (RGC Forest Law 2002) that
      establishes the long-term intent o f forest management, and enables government
      to:

       0   create a permanent forest estate to be managed by a designated, responsible
           agent o f government (the ForestAdministration);
       0   define acceptable and sustainable uses o f forest resources; establish
           procedures for environmental protection and the conservation o f natural forest
           diversity;
       0   protect the traditional rights o f forest-dwelling people to access and use the
           forest;
       0   establish criteria andprocedures for the zoning and allocation o f forest lands;
       0 allocate    forest lands to different uses (ie.,       commercial concessions,
           community forestry, annual felling coupes, etc.);
       0 regulate and control forest use andharvest;
       0 collect fees and royalties onpublic use and harvest o f forest resources;
       0 define illegal activities inthe forest, and establish enforcement procedures and
           penalties for non-compliance; and
       0   regulate and control the transport, conversion and processing o f forest
           products.

   0   Legal Regulations. Legal regulations pursuant to the Act (Le., Sub-Decree on
       Forest Concession Management 2000, Sub-Decree on Community Forestry 2003)
       that establish:

       o broadmanagement direction for different uses;
       o procedures for application and approval to use the forest and forest resources;
       o legal contracts and/or agreements between government and forest users
           establishing enforceable terms and conditions for resource use (Le. model
           Concession Agreement);
       o standards for forest planning andmanagement; and
       o procedures for the monitoring o f compliance, and enforcement actions and
           penalties to be applied incases o f non-compliance.

   0   Legal Standards. Legal standards o f sustainable forest management for each
       major forest zone, establishing:

           long-term forest and ecosystemmanagement objectives for the zone;
           the nature and rates o f acceptable use, and royalty rates due to government;
           and
           mandatory forest management practices (i.e. silvicultural systems, rate-of-cut
           constraints) that apply nationwide.


   0   Planning Process. A three-tiered planning process, defined by planning
       guidelines (see below) and providing the basis for Government approval and
       permitting and for compliance monitoring and enforcement, consisting o f the
       following levels.



                                              116

                                     Forestry ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project



 o Long-term (25-year) strategicforest management plans, which include:
     -      broad sustainable forest management, environmental and social objectives

     -      for the concession;
            delineation of forest zones to define both protection areas (biodiversity
            reserves, protected area buffer zones and corridors, watershed protection
            areas, riparian reserves, fragile areas, traditional non-timber forest product
            areas important to local communities, and areas o f cultural or historical

      -     importance) andthe net operable working forest by major forest type;
            a scientifically calculated medium- and long-term sustainable yield on the
            net operable working forest;
      -     appropriate silvicultural systems and harvesting techniques for different

      --    forest andterrain types;
            environmental and social impact management and monitoringprograms;
            ongoing community disclosure, consultation and participation programs;

      -     and
            inventory, monitoring andevaluation programs.

 o "Rolling ''3-5year compartmentplans, which include:
      --    medium-termaccess planning, management anddecommissioning;
            more focussed community consultation leading to refined environmental

      -      and cultural resourcezoning; and
            medium-termsilviculture andsite rehabilitationoperations.

 o Annual coupe plans, guided by operational guidelines (see below), which
      describe:
      ------ harvesting methods and equipment;
             operational inventory results;
             tree numbersand volumes to be retained and removed;
             locationanddesign o f forest access;
             tree marking and log tracking methods;
             on-site environmental and cultural resource protection and biodiversity

      -      conservation; regeneration and stand-tending activities; and
             methods and results o f annual community consultation programs.

0 Guidelines. This comprises a set o f planning and operational guidelines that
  provide direction to the forest planning process at all levels-strategic,
  compartment and coupe. Guidelines have been developed to give direction to
  planning through a range o f field circumstances and site conditions, and thus not
  all of the prescriptions may apply to a specific area. InCambodia, guidelines have
  been prepared relating to planning, inventory, community consultation and
  participation, biodiversity conservation, watershed and riparian zone delineation
  and protection, reduced impact logging, access management (road design,
  construction, maintenance and de-commissioning), and forest engineering.
  Planning guidelines have now been consolidated in a Forest Planning Handbook
  covering all levels of concessionplanning-strategic,        compartment and coupe.




                                            117

Cambodia



     e  Contracts, Permits and Licenses. Linking the above elements into an operable
        control system i s rigorous and methodical documentation o f the controlling
        agency's evaluation and acceptance o f the operator's plans. This documentation
        mustrecordandverify the expectedadequacy of the proposed action, asjudged in
        light o fsite-specific conditions andthe overall objectives ofmanagement. For this
        reason, guidelines are not mandatory in themselves, but the prescriptions they
        contain become enforceable when stipulated in approved plans at the strategic,
        compartment and coupe levels.

6.      Environmental and Social Impact Assessment of Forestry Concession
Management. Environmental and social impact assessment o f forestry projects should be
integral to the underlying forest planning process. However, because o f obligations
mandated by the Law on Environmental Protection and NaturalResource Management, it
i s a separate process requiring parallel documentation. At a fundamental level, traditional
ESIA fulfills a number of functions that are not substantially different from those
required to develop a sustainable strategic forest managementplan:

     e  Scope potential impacts basedon an initial project design;

     8  Establish a reliable environmental and social baseline against which to measure
        future change;

     e  Establish environmental and social objectives, standards and performance
        indicators;

     e  Avoid or reduce impacts through early consideration inplanning and design;

     e  Identifyand quantify benefits andresidual impacts or risks (i-e., those that cannot
        be avoided or mitigated);

     8   Establish monitoring programs, with "thresholds" that will trigger management
         action;

     8   Consult with affected communities and accommodate their needs in the
        managementplan; and

     e   Provide guidance to more detailed planning which, in turn, will lead to
         operational approvals and implementation.

7.      Inlight of the foregoing, ESIA inforest resource management should focus less
on "academic" impact analysis, and more on ensuring that forest management planning
avoids or minimizes environmental and social impacts by:

         Settingclear and appropriate goals, objectives andprinciples for sustainable forest
        managementactivities;




                                             118

                                  Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


 Ensuring that government policies, legislation, regulations and institutional
  organization support and facilitate        sound, sustainable natural resource
 management;

0Ensuring that management activities directed at natural ecosystems are as
  consistent as possible with the ecological processesthat create and maintainthose
  systems;

0 Limiting site disturbance, soil degradationand watershed disruptionthrough good
  operational practices;

0 Incorporating long-term community co-management, planning and development
  programs into program designthrough constructive public consultation processes;

0 Providing potential beneficiaries with the skills and information necessary to
  participate effectively inthe project; and,

0 Establishing well-conceived environmental and social monitoringprograms.




                                        119


                                    Forestry ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project


                                ANNEX7 REFERENCES

Ashwell, David; Miller, Frank & Diimmer, Ignas. 2004. Ecology, Forest Cover and
       Quality. Chapter 1 of Cambodia Independent Forest Sector Review 2004. Phnom
       Penh, Cambodia: WGNRM.

Associates in Rural Development (ARD, Inc.). February 28, 1997. "Cambodia Forest
       Policy Reform Process." (TA Credit-2664-KH). Technical Proposal. In
       association with Ta Prohm Environment, Ltd.PhnomPenh, Cambodia: ARD, Inc.

       August 1997b. "Technical Assistance Project inForest Policy Review." Inception
       Report. Forest Policy Reform Project. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: ARD, Inc.

       May 1998. "Forest Policy Transition Paper for Cambodia." Forest Policy Reform
       Project. FinalDraft. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: ARD, Inc.

Butterfield,R. 1997.LandAllocations andCommunity LivelihoodsPolicy Issues. Phnom
       Penh, Cambodia.

       1997b. Community Livelihoods and Common Property Resources in Cambodia.
       PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

Cambodia Development Review (CDR). January-March 2002 edition. Volume 6. Issue 1.
       "Questioning Sustainable Concession Forestry in Cambodia." Phnom Penh,
       Cambodia: CDR.

Colexim Enterprise. 2003. "Timber Transport Proposal from Tumring Rubber Plantation
       to Colexim Enterprise." Cambodia: Colexim Enterprise.

Conservation International (CI). November 27, 2000. C I comments on the Concession
       Forest Management Plans and ESIA o f TPP Cambodia Timber Product Pty, Ltd.
       Phnom Penh, Cambodia: CI.

Cooperation Committee for Cambodia. November 2004. `"GO         Statement to the 2004
       Consultative Group Meeting on Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia, December
       6-7,2004.

Department o f Forestry and Wildlife (DFW). Undated, circa 2000. Guidelines for
       Sustainable Forest Management. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries.
       PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

       August 2000. "Forest Concession Management Planning Manual." Asian
       Development BarWWorld Bank supported Technical Assistance, Phnom Penh,
       Cambodia: DFW.

       January 2001a. First Year Report on Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting
       (November 1999-October 2000). Phnom Penh, Cambodia: DFW.




                                         121

Cambodia


      March 2001b. Forest Concession Management Planning Manual. Phnom Penh,
      Cambodia: DFW.

      November 2002a. "AnAssessment o f ongoing Community Forestry Initiatives in
      Cambodia - Implications for the Development of a Forestry Extension Strategy.
      Phnom Penh, Cambodia: DFW.

      November 2002b. Southern Cardamom Survey, July-September 2002. Interim
      Report. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

      December 2002c. Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
      Project. "Technical Review of the Strategic Forest Management Plan and
      Environmental and Social Impact Analysis." Everbright Company, Kratie-Stung
      Treng Concession.Phnom Penh, Cambodia: DFW.

      January 2003a. Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
       Project. "Technical Review of the Strategic Forest Management Plan and
       Environmental and Social Impact Analysis."       Mieng Ly Heng Company,
       KampongThom Concession.Phnom Penh, Cambodia: DFW.

       January 2003b. Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
       Project. "Technical Review o f the Strategic Forest Management Plan and
       Environmental and Social Impact Analysis." Kingwood Company, Kratie
       Concession. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

       February 3, 2003c. Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
       Project. "Introduction to Forest Concession Planning, Management and Control
       System inCambodia. Training Report 1.PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

       March 2003d. Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
       Project. "Trends inLand Cover Changes Detection between 1996/97 and 2002 by
       Remote Sensing Analysis. Prepared with the Technical Assistance o f the
       Consortium Fori3 Ressources Management in cooperation with INDUFOR OY
       and SociktC Gknkrale de Surveillance (SGS). PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

       March-June 2003e. Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
       Project. "Trends in Land Cover Changes Detection between 1996/97 and 2002 by
       Remote Sensing Analysis. Prepared with the Technical Assistance of the
       Consortium For& Resources Management in cooperation with INDUFOR OY
       and Sociktk GknCralede Surveillance (SGS). PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

       April 2, 2003f. Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
       Project. Mid-TermReview Mission, FebruaryIMarch 2003. Final Report. Phnom
       Penh, Cambodia: DFW.

       April 2003g. Report on Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting in the First
       Quarter of 2003. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: DFW.




                                          122

                                      Forestry ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project


      April 7, 2003h. Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
      Project. "Guidelines for Control and Monitoring o f Log Transportation. Case
      Study: Log Transportation from Tumring Rubber Tree Plantation Area to
      Colexim Company Sawmill. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

      May 2003i. Cambodia: Forestry Statistics to 2002. Statistics Section Planning
      and Accounting Office. Phnom Ped, Cambodia: DFW.

      September 2003j. Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
      Project. "Trends inLand Cover Changes Detection between 1996/97 and 2002 by
      Remote Sensing Analysis. Prepared with the Technical Assistance o f the
      Consortium Forst Resources Management in cooperation with INDUFOR OY
      and SociCtC GCnCrale de Surveillance (SGS). Phnom Penh, Cambodia: DFW.

Development Alternatives, Inc (DAI). September 1998. Findings and Recommendations
      o f the Log Monitoring and Logging Control Project. (TA Credit-2664-KH). Main
      Report & Annexes. FinalEdition. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DAI.

Embassy of SwedenDevelopment Co-operation Section, June 20,2000. Letter to H.E.Ty
       Sokhun regarding "Comments on the Draft Forestry Law." Phnom Penh,
      Cambodia.

FAO, UNDP. April 2000. Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting Project. Five Month
      ProgressReport. Executive Summary. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: FAO, UNDP.

       April 2000b. Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting Project. Amendment 1:
       Investigations and Preventions. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: FAO, UNDP.

Flora and Fauna International (FFI). November 30, 2002. Comments on Consolidated
       Environmental and Social Impact Assessment report as an Integral Part o f the
       Strategic Forest Management Plan for the Koh-Kong and Pursat Forest
       Concessions, March 2002 by Silveroad Wood Products Co. Ltd. Phnom Penh,
       Cambodia: FFI.

Forestry Administration (FA). June 2004(a). Document Set No. 1. Inventory Handbook.
       Prepared with the Technical Assistance o f the Consortium Foret Resources
       Management in cooperation with INDUFOR OY and SociCtC GenCrale de
       Surveillance (SGS). Phnom Penh, Cambodia: FA.

       June 2004(b). Document Set No. 2. Forest Planning Handbook. Prepared with the
       Technical Assistance o f the Consortium For& Resources Management in
       cooperation with INDUFOR OY and SociCtt GCntrale de Surveillance (SGS).
       PhnomPenh, Cambodia: FA.

       June 2004(c). Document Set No. 3. Guidelines for the Review of the Forest
       Management Plans. Prepared with the Technical Assistance o f the Consortium
       For& Resources Management in cooperation with INDUFOR OY and SociCtC
       GCnCralede Surveillance (SGS). Phnom Penh, Cambodia: FA.


                                           123

Cambodia


      June 2004(d). Document Set No. 4. Forest Systems Research and Modeling
      Handbook. Prepared with the Technical Assistance of the Consortium For&
      Resources Management incooperation with INDUFOR OY and SociCtC GCnCrale
       de Surveillance (SGS). PhnomPenh, Cambodia: FA.

       June 2004(e). Document Set No. 5. Training Material. Prepared with the
       Technical Assistance of the Consortium For6t Resources Management in
       cooperation with INDUFOR OY and Soci6t6 G6nCrale de Surveillance (SGS).
       PhnomPenh, Cambodia: FA.

Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting CMB/99/A05. "Reporting Protocols." Phnom
       Penh, Cambodia.

Fortech. June 1997a. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical Paper
       No.1 : "Introduction to Forest Management Planning for the Royal Government
       o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       July 1997b. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Information Item
       No.1: "The Objectives o f Sustainable Management for the Royal Government o f
       Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       July 1997c. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Information Item
       No. 2: "The Forestry Concession for the Royal Government o f Cambodia."
       PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       July 1997d. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Status Report No.
       1: "Inception Report for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh,
       Cambodia: Fortech.

       August 1997e. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Status Report
       No.2: "Inventory and Resource Assessment Requirement for the Royal
       Government o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       September 1997f. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
       Paper No. 2: "Procedures for the Identification o f Special Management Areas for
       the Royal Government ofCambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       September 19978. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
       Paper No. 3: "Guidelines for Special Management Area Management for the
       Royal Government o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       September 1997h. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
       Paper No. 6: "Guidelines for Social and Economic Survey of Communities
       Surrounding o f Forest Concession Areas for the Royal Government o f
       Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       October 1997i. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
       Paper No.4 : "Summary Paper on Provision for Identification and Protection of



                                          124

                              Forestry ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project


Special Management Areas within Forest Concessions for the Royal Government
ofCambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

December 1997j. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
Paper No. 5: "Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment of Forest
Concessions for the Royal Government of Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
Fortech.

February 1998a. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
Paper No.7 : "Site Visit Report - Kampong Thom, Mondulkiri and Kratie
Provinces for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
Fortech.

February 1998b. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
Paper No. 8: "Review o fthe Forestry Sector TrainingNeeds and Training Planfor
the Cambodian Forest Code of Practice for the Royal Government of Cambodia."
PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

February 1998c. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
PaperNo. 9: "Guidelines for the Evaluationo f Environmental Impact Assessment
for Forest Concessions for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh,
Cambodia: Fortech.

June 1998d. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Working Paper:
"The Three Tier Management Plan System for Forest Concession Management
for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

June 1998e. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical Paper
No.10 : "Monitoring and Regulation of the Cambodian Forest Code of Practice
for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

June 1998f. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical Paper
No. 11: "The Forest Concession Management Planning System for the Royal
Government o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

August 19988. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
PaperNo. 12: "Forest Extension Needs for Concession Management Training for
the Royal Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

August 1998h. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
PaperNo. 13: "The Identification and Management o f Special Management Areas
with Regard to the Code o f Practice for the Royal Government o f Cambodia."
Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

August 1998i. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
PaperNo. 14: "The Forest Revenue Systemin Cambodia - Recommendations for
Change for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
Fortech.


                                   125

Cambodia


      August 1998j. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
      Paper No.15 : "Monitoring and Regulation o f the Cambodian Forest Code o f
      Practice for the Royal Government of Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
      Fortech.

      August 31, 1998k. Discussion Paper No. 15: Montgomery, Phil. "The Forest
      Revenue System in Cambodia-Recommendations for Change." Forest Technical
       Services Ltd., PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       October 19981. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
       Paper No. 16: "Guidelines for Second Tier Forest Concession Management
       Inventory for the Royal Government of Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
       Fortech.

       December 1998m. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Part B:
       "The Technical Report for Forest Concession Management for the Royal
       Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       December 199811. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. "The
       Cambodian Forest Harvest Code o f Practice for the Royal Government o f
       Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       December 19980. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Manual
       No.1: "for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
       Fortech.

       December 1998p. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Manual
       No.2: "The Cambodian Forest Management Information System for the Royal
       Government o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       December 1998q. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. ManualNo.
       3: "Procedures for the Measurement o f Concession Logs for the Royal
       Government of Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       December 1998r. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. ManualNo.
       4: "Construction Guidelines for Forest Engineering Works for the Royal
       Government o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       December 1998s. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Manual
       No.5: "Procedures for the Use o fthe Cambodia Log Sales Database for the Royal
       Government of Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       December 1998t. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Manual No.
       6: "Procedures for the Identification o f Potential Forest Concession Areas for the
       RoyalGovernment o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.




                                           126

                                       Forestry Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


       January 1999. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Manual No. 7:
       "The Forest Concession Management Planning Code for the Royal Government
       o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       January 1999b. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
       Paper No. 17: "Guidelines for Forest Concession Management for the Royal
       Government of Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

Fox, J. 1997. Social Forestry as a Vehicle for Refreshing Resource Management
       Institutions inCambodia. Phnom Penh, Cambodia.

Fox, J. 1999. Customary Land-Use Practicesand ResourceTenure Systems among Krung
       and Tampuen Communities inNortheastern Cambodia. PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

Fraser Thomas, GFA-AGRAR, ANZDEC. April 28,2000a. Cambodia Forest Concession
       Review Report. Sustainable Forestry Management Project. Asian Development
        Bank (TA-3 152-Cam). Ministry o f Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, General
       Directorate of Forestry, Royal Government of Cambodia. Phnom Penh,
        Cambodia: Fraser Thomas, GFA-AGRA,ANZDEC.

        June 29, 2000b. Community Forestry Guidelines. Sustainable Forestry
        Management Project. Asian Development Bank (TA-3 152-Cam). Ministry o f
        Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, General Directorate o f Forestry, Royal
        Government of Cambodia. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fraser Thomas, GFA-
        AGRA, ANZDEC.

        July 18, 2000c. "Interim Forest Concession Management Planning Manual.
        Ministryof Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, General Directorate of Forestry,
        Royal Government o f Cambodia. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fraser Thomas, GFA-
        AGRA, ANZDEC.

GFA Terra Systems. August 2004. Cambodia. Results of the Independent Review of
        Strategic Forest Management Plans prepared by Concession Companies
        Operating inCambodia. Hinrichs, Alexander; McKenzie, Catherine. PhnomPenh,
        Cambodia: GFA.

Global Witness (GW). May 31, 2000. "Forest Crime Report: Concessions Serviced by
        "GATRoad''-Koh Kong." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: GW.

        June 22, 2000. "Forest Crime Report: Old Log Collection by Supenvood
        (PURSAT) andAssociated UnclaimedLogs. " PhnomPenh, Cambodia: GW.

        January 2001, "The Return of Large-Scale Illegal Logging. " A Briefing
        Document for the Post-CG Meeting on 29th January 2001. Phnom Penh,
        Cambodia: GW.

        July 2002. "Deforestation Without Limits." How the Cambodian Government
        failedto tackle the untouchables. London, UnitedKingdom: GW.


                                            127

Cumbodia



      November 30, 2002. Preliminary Assessment of Strategic Forest Management
      Plans and Environmental Impact Assessment Reports - Cambodia's Forest
      ManagementOptions for the Future.PhnomPenh, Cambodia: GW.

      November 2004. "Taking a Cut." Institutionalised Corruption and Illegal
       Logging in Cambodia's Aural Wildlife Sanctuary. London, United Kingdom:
       GW.

Government of Denmark. Agreement on "Provision of funds from The Royal Danish
       Government to Global Witness, London, United Kingdom of Great Britain. '' In
       Support of External Monitoring & Audits to validate forest related crimes being
       reported and reportedactionshave been accomplished. London, UnitedKingdom:
       DanishGovernment.

Grandalski, Richard (Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting- CMB/99/A05), March 30,
       2000. Letter to Mr. Ty Sokhun regarding Illegal Logs and Wood Exports to
       Thailand. PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

-(F      orest Crime Monitoring and Reporting- CMB/99/A05), December 1, 2000.
       Letter to Mr. Claus Mogensen regarding "Global Witness Independent
       MonitoringContract CambodiaForest Crime Monitoringand Reporting Project."
       PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

GTZ. An Assessment of ongoing Community Forestry Initiatives in Cambodia:
       Implications for the Developmentof a Forestry Extension Strategy. Phnom Penh,
       Cambodia: GTZ.

Kock, Andrew. October 2000. (NGO Forum on Cambodia). "The Development and
       Implementation of Forest Concession Management Planning Guidelines -
       BackgroundandProblems." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Kock, Andrew.

McKenney, Bruce and Tola, Prom. July 2002. Working Paper No. 23. Natural Resources
       and Rural Livelihoods in Cambodia. A Baseline Assessment. Cambodia
       Development ResourceInstitute. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: McKenney & Tola.

Ministry of Economy & Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries. June
       2003. Manual for ForestRevenue ManagementSystem. PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

Ministry of Economy and Finance. July 2002. Minutes on the Financial Audit at the
       Forestry and Wildlife Department.PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries; Ministry of Environment, FAO, UNDP.
       April 2000. Field Document 4. Report on Forest Crime Monitoring and
       Reporting.Grandalski, Richard. PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries. "Decision on Establishmentof Focal Point
       to follow-up reports of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries and
       Ministryof Environment." PhnomPenh, Cambodia.



                                           128

                                       Forestry ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project


       January 31, 2002. Letter to Mr. William Magrath regarding "Cambodia: Forest
       Concession." Attached are letters from the Minister of MAFF to Council of
       Ministers.

NGO Forum. November 30, 2002. NGO Forum Preliminary Submission on Forest
       Concession Management Plans.PhnomPenh, Cambodia: NGO Forum.

O'Connell, Stephen. April 2000. "New tiger-monitoring teams to patrol forests" Office o f
       the Council o f Ministers, Cambodia. 2001. Report on Forest Crime Monitoring
       and Reporting 2001. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: RGC.

Provincial Workshops on Land Allocation - Kampong Thom and Kratie Provinces,
       November-December 1997 (proceedings).

Ratanakiri NGOAO NRM Working Group. November 30, 2002. Public Comment on
       Management Plan and EnvironmentaVSocial Impact Assessment o f Logging
       Concession in Ratanakiri and Stung Treng Provinces. Gordon Paterson.
       Ratanakiri, Cambodia.

Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC). 2000. "Memorandum o f Understanding Forest
       Crime Monitoring and Reporting IndependentMonitor." PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

       July 26, 2002. "Statement of the Royal Government on National Forest Sector
       Policy. " Unofficial Translation. Phnom Penh, Cambodia.

Sarun, Chan (Ministry o f Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries), February 1, 2002.
       Notification regarding offsetting the royalty payments o f "Sun Ly Seng Co."
       PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

       May 24, 2002. Letter of response to Mr. Ian C. Porter regarding the "Structural
       Adjustment Credit (SAC)" andthe "Forest Policy Reformprocess inCambodia."

Seila. November 21, 2002. Pheapimex Forest Concession Management Plan and ESIA.
       PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Seila.

Sokun, Ty (Director o f Department o f Forestry and Wildlife), February 8, 2000. "Report
       o f Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting Activities inJanuary 2000." Report to
       H.E. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
       DFW.

Song, Chhea (Minister o f the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries), December
       23, 1999. "Report o f Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting Activities from 1'`
       November 1999 to 21St December 1999." With Respect to Samdech Prime
       Minister of the Government of Cambodia. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: MAFF.

       July 3, 2000. "Letter to Mr. William Magrath on "The Public Consultation of
       Forestry Law's Draft."




                                            129

Cambodia


The World Bank. August 14, 1996. "Cambodia: Forest Policy Assessment." Joint World
      Bank, UNDP and F A 0 report, Washington D.C.: The World Bank, UNDP &
      FA0.

      December 1998. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Management
       Supplement for the Royal Government of Cambodia. World Bank Mission Team.
      Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

      February 1, 1999. "Cambodia: A Vision for Forestry Sector Development." A
      Background Note. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

      February 7, 2000. Country Assistance Strategy, Cambodia. Southeast Asia and
      Mongolia Country Unit, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Report No.
      20077-KH, Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

      February 7,2000b. Report & Recommendation of the President, Structural Adjust
       Credit, Cambodia. Poverty Reduction & Economic Management Unit, East Asia
       and Pacific Region. Report No. 7359-KH, Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

       June 30, 2002. Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program, Global and Regional
       Initiatives Component.Completion Report. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

       September 9, 2002b. Overview Process for Reviewing and Evaluating Forest
       Management Plans.Flowchart for FMP Evaluation. Washington,     D.C.:    The
       World Bank.

       December 2003. Cambodia Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
       Project. "Quality Enhancement Review (QER)." Quality Assurance Group
       (QAG). Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

       February 2004. Reforming Forest Fiscal Systems. An Overview o f Country
       Approaches andExperiences. Chapter 1. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

The World Bank, UNDP, FAO. November 1995. "Cambodia: Forest Policy Assessment."
       Joint World Bank, UNDP and FA0 report. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank,
       UNDP, FAO.

The World Bank. FAO. March 27, 1996. Third Progress Report. "Forest Policy Reform
       Facilitation" in Cambodia. Joint World Bank and FA0 report. J. M. Lejeune.
       Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, FAO.

The World Bank, WCS. Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program, Global and Regional
       Initiatives Component. "Initiating Biodiversity Conservation in Cambodian
       Forestry Concessions: Testing the Guidelines for Managed Forests." Wildlife
       Conservation Society (WCS) Cambodia Program. A Final Report. Phnom Penh,
       Cambodia: The World Bank,WCS.




                                         130

                                     Forestry ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project


TPP Cambodia Timber Product PTE., Ltd. May 2004. Forest Concession Management
       Plan inSeamReap and PreahVihear Province. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: TPP.

UNDP. 2002. Cambodia's Report t WSSD. "National Assessment of Implementations o f
       Agenda 21  ." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: UNDP.

UNDP/FAO. January 2000. Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting. "Inception and
       Quarterly Situation Report." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: UNDPEAO.

United States General Accounting Office (GAQ). June 2002. "Cambodia: Governance
       Reform Progressing, butKey Efforts are Lagging. Report to the Chairman & to
                                                         "
       the Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Foreign Operations, Committee on
       Appropriations, U.S. Senate. Washington, D.C.: U S GAQ.

WildAid. SouthWest Elephant Corridor (SWEC). PhnomPenh, Cambodia; WildAid.

       November 29, 2002. WildAid comments on the Concession Forest Management
       Plans, TPP, Silveroad, and Samling. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: WildAid.

       May 19, 2003. Letter addressed to H.E. Chan Samn regarding Consulting
       Services: Independent Monitoring o f Forest Crime Reporting." Gauntlett,
       Suwanna. Phnom Penh, Cambodia.

Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS). March 2001. "A Wildlife Survey in Southern
       Mondulkiri Province, Cambodia." Walston, Joe; Davidson, Pete; and Soriyun,
       Men.PhnomPenh, Cambodia: WCS.

       March 2002. "Resin-Tapping in Southem Mondulkiri Province, Cambodia. First
       InterimReport. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: WCS.

       January 2003. "A Study of Resin-Tapping and Livelihoods in Southern
       Mondulkiri, Cambodia, with implications          for Conservation and Forest
       Management." Evans, Tom; Piseth, Hout; Phaktra, Phet; and Mary, Hang. Phnom
       Penh, Cambodia: WCS.

       November 2004. "Focusing on Cambodia's High Value Forests: Livelihoods and
       Management." McKenney, Bruce; Chea, Yim; Tola, Prom; and Evans, Tom.
       Special Report. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: WCS.

Working Group on Natural Resource Management (WGNRM), and Royal Government
       of Cambodia (RGC). 2004. Cambodia: Independent Forest Sector Review.
       Chapter 1. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: WGNRM. http://www.cambodia-forest-
       sector.net/




                                          131




