                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                      Report No: 39808




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                        (IDA-33650 JPN-26419)

                                                   ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION
                                (US$4.82 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                    KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                                FOR THE

     FOREST CONCESSION MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL PILOT PROJECT




                                               June 4, 2007




Rural Development, Natural Resources and Environment Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2006)
                                 Currency Unit: Riel (R)
                                R1.00 = 0.00026/0.000024
                                 US$1.00 = R3,921/4,225


                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 - December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB    Asian Development Bank
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
DANIDA Danish International Development Agency
DCA    Development Credit Agreement
DFID   Department for International Development
ESIA   Economic and Social Impact Assessment
FA     Forestry Administration
FAO    Food and Agriculture Organization
GEF    Global Environment Facility
GIS    Geographic Information Systems
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
IFSR   Independent Forest Sector Review
IPDP   Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan
LIL    Learning and Innovation Loan
MAFF   Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
MEF    Ministry of Economy & Finance
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR    Mid-Term Review
NGO    Non-governmental Organization
NOL    No Objection Letter
OD     Operational Directive
OP/BP  Operational Policy/Bank Procedure
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PDO    Project Development Objective
PHRD   Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PMU    Project Management Unit
SFMP   Strategic Forest Management Plan
SGS    Société Générale de Surveillance
TA     Technical Assistance
TRT    Technical Review Team
UNDP   United Nations Development Program




               Vice President:                  James Adams, EAPVP
               Country Director:                Ian Porter, EACTF
               Sector Manager:                  Hoonae Kim, EASRE
               Project Team Leader:             Peter Jipp, EASRE

                                                            Cambodia

                Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

                         Implementation Completion and Results Report




                                                             Contents


                                                                                                                                     Page No.
1. Basic Information................................................................................................................. 1
2. Key Dates............................................................................................................................. 1
3. Ratings Summary................................................................................................................. 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes...................................................................................................... 2
5. Bank Staff ............................................................................................................................ 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................................ 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................ 5
8. Assessment of Outcomes ..................................................................................................... 8
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.................................................................. 10
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance............................................................... 11
11. Lessons Learned................................................................................................................. 13
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.................... 14

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis.................................................................................. 17
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................. 18
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing ................................................................................... 19
Annex 4. Outputs by Component........................................................................................... 21
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)........... 24
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes...................... 25
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................... 27
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)........................................................................ 28
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)............................................... 29
Annex 10. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders............................... 30
Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................ 31

Map ........................................................................................................................................... 32

1. Basic Information
                                                                         Forest Concession
Country                        Cambodia          Project Name            Management and
                                                                         Control Pilot Project
Project ID                     P060003           L/C/TF Numbers          IDA-33650 JPN-26419
ICR Date                       10/20/2006        ICR Type                Core ICR
Lending Instrument             LIL               Borrower                Kingdom of Cambodia
Original Total Commitment SDR 3.6 million Disbursed Amount SDR 3.3 million
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agency:
The Forest Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:
None


2. Key Dates

    Process             Date                Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review       05/06/1999      Effectiveness            10/20/2000        10/20/2000
Appraisal            06/12/1999      Restructuring                  -           12/31/2003
Approval             06/15/2000      Mid-term Review                -           03/31/2003
                                     Closing                  12/31/2003        12/31/2005


3. Ratings Summary


3.1 Performance Rating by ICR


Outcome                                        Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                    Significant
Bank Performance                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                           Moderately Unsatisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators


Implementation Performance         Indicators         QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at
                                 Yes               Quality at Entry (QEA)              None
any time (Yes/No)
Problem Project
                                 Yes               Quality of Supervision (QSA)        None
at any time (Yes/No)
DO rating before Closing         Unsatisfactory




                                              1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                         Original           Actual
Sector Code (as percent of total Bank financing):
Forestry                                                    71                70
Central government administration                           29                30
                                                      Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary):
Biodiversity                                             Secondary        Secondary
Environmental policies and institutions                   Primary          Primary
Land administration and management                        Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                 Positions                         At ICR              At Approval
Vice President                               James Adams         Jemal-ud-din Kassum

Country Director                             Ian Porter          Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager                               Hoonae Kim          Geoffrey Fox

Project Team Leader                          Peter Jipp          William Magrath
ICR Team Leader                              Kariyan Mei                    -
ICR Primary Author                           Jeff Sayer                     -




                                            2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

6.1 Context at Appraisal

6.1.1 The project developed as Cambodia (one of the poorest countries in the region, with a per
capita annual income of US$290 in 2000), emerged in the mid-1990s from decades of war and
isolation. Its institutions were fragile, and both violence and social dislocation continued, with
disarray extending to all parts of the economy. During the second half of the 1990s and into this
decade, stability has increased, agricultural growth has been restored, rural incomes have grown and
rural poverty has been reduced (although not as quickly as in urban areas). However, governance and
the non-transparent allocation of natural resource exploitation rights have held back (and continue to
hold back) progress; access to natural resources (including land, forests and fisheries) upon which
local communities depend for consumption and much of their income is limited, and the number of
landless rural people in Cambodia is steadily increasing.

6.1.2 By the late 1990s, the government had begun an ambitious structural reform program with the
support of the Bank and other donors. The Bank's 2000 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS - Report
No. 20077-KH of February 7, 2000) for Cambodia discussed the governance challenges facing the
country, among them an awareness of the excessive role of the military in national life, the limitations
and weak capacity of the public administration, low civil service salaries and widespread corruption.
The CAS further proposed steps to build "... the foundations for sustainable development and poverty
reduction ... " as the Bank's main objective in Cambodia. The CAS also acknowledged the risks to
Cambodia of faltering political commitment to reforms in the face of powerful special interests and of
a return to social unrest and political instability. The effective management of critical natural
resources, especially land and forests, was seen as an important component of Cambodia's economic
reconstruction.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.2.1 The overall Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were: (a) to demonstrate and improve the
effectiveness of a comprehensive set of forest management and operational guidelines and control
procedures in forest concession areas; and (b) to establish an effective forest crime monitoring and
prevention capability. Key performance indicators included increasing forest sector revenue and
decreasing the prevalence of forest crime.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

6.3.1 No changes were made to the development objectives or the performance indicators during the
life of the project.


6.4 Main Beneficiaries

6.4.1 Participation by local people, through involvement in concession planning, was an important
feature of the proposed regulatory system and was intended to be an important aspect of the project.
Consultation, rapid rural appraisals and other participatory methods were used in the development of
sectoral reform programs. Other consultations have been carried out with the private sector
Cambodia Timber Industries Association, the concerned provincial governments and key non-
governmental organization (NGOs).



                                                    3

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

6.5.1 The project consisted of four components. The projected costs shown here included price and
physical contingency provisions.

        (a) The Forest Planning and Inventory Component (US$1.3 million) was designed to
            support the Forestry Administration (FA) in providing guidance to and exercising quality
            control over concessionaire preparation of detailed long- and short-term forest
            management plans. It included the conduct of field surveys and inventories, and
            assessment of management constraints, biodiversity and social issues, and the risks of
            timber theft.

        (b) The Concession Regulation and Control Component (US$2.04 million) was designed
            to strengthen the capacity of the FA to oversee concession operations and to ensure
            compliance of operations with plans and conditions.

        (c) The Forest Crime Monitoring and Prevention Component (US$1.11 million) was
            designed to strengthen the capacity of the FA and Ministry of Environment to monitor
            illegal logging regularly and to launch effective prevention activities. It introduced
            systematic data collection and analysis techniques, and provided equipment and
            contractual services, training and technical assistance.

        (d) The Project Management and Institutional Strengthening Component (US$0.97
            million) was designed to establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) in the FA,
            including construction of a small office building, and provision of equipment and staff
            training.

6.5.2 An Independent Monitor of forest crime (Global Witness) was initially supported by a parallel
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)/United Nations Development Program (UNDP) project
funded by the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA) and the UK Department for
International Development (DFID), but this funding came to an end in 2002. At that time, the
government requested that a new Monitor be chosen and in 2003 the Bank agreed that Credit
proceeds would be used to fund a commercial enterprise, the Société Générale de Surveillance (SGS),
to act as Independent Monitor.

6.6 Revised Components

6.6.1 The project was slightly modified in 2003 to address post-concession management issues by
sponsoring the Wildlife Conservation Society to undertake land use planning activities in conjunction
with local communities and protection activities in coordination with the FA and the Military Police
within a closed concession area; this modification did not require an amendment to the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA).

6.7 Other significant changes

6.7.1 The project was extended twice during implementation (for a total of two years). Initially the
project was extended for 18 months to continue the forest sector reform process, and later it was
extended for an additional six months to provide continued support to independent forest crime
monitoring.



                                               4

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

7.1.1   The Bank's willingness to engage in forestry in Cambodia despite the inherent risks was
explicitly commended by the Inspection Panel. Even though the forest concessions had been granted
by the Cambodian government before the project was conceived, the Bank's efforts to support
government oversight and regulations were interpreted as supporting concessionaires. During the
pre-project period, logging was authorized on the basis of plans prepared by concessionaires and
based almost entirely on processing capacity rather than forest potential. Logging practice by
concessionaires was generally poor, as were road construction, worker safety and other aspects. The
"without-project" scenario anticipated a near-total loss of forest cover within five years.

7.1.2   The project was developed as part of a broad effort under the 2000 CAS to help build the
foundations for sustainable development and poverty reduction, in particular strengthening good
governance through a more efficient and accountable public administration. Substantial analytical
work was done to support project design and a consensus among stakeholders was developed through
the Bank's Analytical and Advisory Activities, dissemination and dialogue. The project was designed
to complement and reinforce related operations that addressed community forestry, conservation, and
land administration (for example, the Asian Development Bank (ADB)-sponsored Community
Forestry Project; the Bank-sponsored Global Environment Facility (GEF) Biodiversity and the
Protected Areas Management Project and the Land Management and Administration Project). Within
this broader context, the project was focused on supporting the government's efforts to reform the
most immediate threat to forests (i.e., unregulated concession operations).

7.1.3   Project preparation was constrained by the urgency all partners felt for the project to be
operational and to increase capacity to manage and control concessions. In retrospect, a focused
Social Assessment specific to the project at the time of preparation would have benefited the project.
For example, an assessment summarizing social issues in the forestry sector would have been able to
assess the indiscriminate logging of resin trees and its impact on local communities. However, a
detailed pre-project inventory of resin trees and site-specific surveys for all concessions would not
have been feasible. Such inventories were to be included in the Economic and Social Impact
Assessments (ESIAs), but the ESIAs prepared by concessionaires for the government's consideration
and public comment turned out to be of poor quality containing little data and weak analysis.

7.2 Implementation

7.2.1 Criticism of the Bank during implementation focused on the fact that the project was
perceived as endorsing the government's decision to proceed with the reform of existing
concessionaires even though many of them were known to have operated in gross violation of their
agreements and to be deeply involved in a range of illegal activities, including human rights abuses.
The Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) team concluded that there were two
elements to the controversy about concessions:

        (a) There was a small but influential lobby opposed to industrial and concession forestry in
            any form although international experience has shown that in situations where regulatory
            institutions are weak concession management can provide a viable and more socially
            responsive alternative for the management of extensive areas of natural forest.




                                               5

        (b) Many critics perceived that the concessionaires operating in Cambodia in the late 1990s
             were incompetent and corrupt and would never achieve acceptable levels of forest
             management. It is clear that several of the concessionaires were very weak. With the
             benefit of hindsight, there can be little doubt that it would have been better to encourage
             the government to cancel most or all of the concessions in 2000 and to proceed to a new
             concession allocation system with international competitive tendering restricted to
             competent operators. It is difficult now to establish whether this was a realistic option at
             the time. Some of the concessions were attributed to companies with a reasonable track
             record in other countries and some were based upon inter-governmental agreements
             (between the government of Cambodia and the governments of the countries in which the
             concessionaires had their bases). A number of concession companies had significant
             investments in extraction and processing capacity in Cambodia. The conclusion of this
             ICR is that a total renewal of the concession system was not seen as a realistic option.

7.2.2 The basic approach adopted by the Bank was to attempt to move the concessions from a state
of extremely poor social and environmental performance toward meeting international standards
within a short space of time and through a process that was highly dependent on a parallel
improvement in the capacity and performance of the FA. This approach has worked in similar
situations in other countries where governments, working in close collaboration with responsible
conservation organizations and relying heavily on international technical assistance, have successfully
improved concession management performance. However, in the case of this project, the Bank has
acknowledged that it over-estimated the government's commitment to the successful implementation
of project objectives and that the project should have done more to encourage the active involvement
of local communities and indigenous people in project design, preparation, and implementation
consistent with the requirements of the government's own sub-decree.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

7.3.1 The inclusion of provision for independent monitoring of the legality of forest operations was
innovative and was one of the strengths of the project concept. However, there appears to have been
a lack of clarity throughout the project about the exact role of the independent monitors. In the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) they are described as having the primary role of assisting the
government and helping to strengthen law enforcement capacity. It is also implicit in the PAD that
they would focus on concession operations. There are numerous international companies with the
capacity to provide independent oversight of forest concessions; many of these are accredited by the
Forest Stewardship Council and therefore, have international credibility. Grant funding from
DANIDA and DFID supported the independent monitor operating during the first three years of the
project. Services were provided by Global Witness, a United Kingdom-based group that specializes
in detecting, investigating and publicizing natural resources crime in developing countries.

7.3.2 There was an immediate tension built into the design of the independent monitoring role.
Global Witness is not an accredited certification body and did not have a comparative advantage in
building capacity of government counterparts to address the specific needs of concession regulation.
As a result the project's requirements for strengthening the capacity of the FA to apply forestry
regulations began slowly and were only partially met. In late 2003, SGS was appointed as the new
independent monitor; however, at the time all forestry operations were nominally suspended and SGS
never had the opportunity fully to deploy its skills in working with concession systems. The result is
that the fundamental objective of strengthening the capacity of the Legal and Litigation Office was
not fully attained.




                                                6

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

7.4.1 In February 2005, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection by the NGO Forum
of Cambodia acting on its own behalf and on behalf of affected local communities in three provinces.
The Panel subsequently investigated the project and presented its findings to the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors in March 2006. The project was criticized by the Panel for its failure to comply
fully with the Bank's safeguard policies dealing with indigenous peoples, natural habitats and
environmental impacts (see paragraph 7.5.1). It appears that in this project, and in at least one other
project supported by a Bank loan approved for Cambodia in 1999-2000 (the Northeast Village
Development Project), the project team decided to address the safeguard issues during
implementation of Learning and Innovation Loans (LILs), rather than at the preparation stage. This
was an "unsatisfactory" element of the Quality at Entry. Had the provisions of the safeguard policies
(especially OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment; OP 4.36 Forestry; and OD 4.20 Indigenous
Peoples) been applied during project preparation, they would have revealed sensitive issues relating
particularly to forest-dependent and indigenous people.

7.4.2 In particular, failure to meet the requirement to develop an Indigenous Peoples' Development
Plan (IPDP) during preparation was unsatisfactory. These issues have been the source of much of the
controversy surrounding the project. Adequate attention to social and biodiversity issues during
project preparation would, for instance, have resulted in a shift in the balance in the project technical
assistance team in favor of specialist advisors on social and biodiversity issues and conventional
forestry operations. However, it should be noted that at the time of preparation is was not at all clear
to which of the concession areas the government would be giving precedence, and therefore
completing an IPDP and detailed environmental studies for the entire forested areas of the country
might have been a disproportionate investment for such a small project. The framework approach
available under the new Indigenous Peoples Policy (OP/BP 4.10) was not available under the
applicable policy (OD 4.20) at the time of project preparation.

7.4.3 It was already known in 1999 that many concessions were inoperable simply because they
lacked the timber resources needed to support a commercial concession operation. Adequate studies
of local peoples' issues would have revealed that other concessions were inappropriate for industrial-
scale operation precisely because of the large numbers of people already exploiting the forests for
non-timber products. Had adequate studies been conducted, the project would have been led rapidly
to focus on a much smaller number of forest areas where industrial-scale concessions were the
appropriate approach. The project could then have diversified its approaches to address the needs of
forest management in the more densely settled, poorly-stocked or highly bio-diverse forests.


7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

7.5.1 In response to the Panel's findings, the Bank's Management prepared an Action Plan that was
approved by the Executive Directors in June 2006. Plans for continued engagement in the forest
sector in Cambodia and for the adoption of an integrated approach to natural resources management
have been described in detail in the Action Plan and a draft Natural Resources Management
Partnership Framework (Annex 11). The Bank Management's response to the Panel's findings
included several actions, including:

        · Launching a review of the application of safeguard policies, including those related to
            Indigenous Peoples' issues in the forestry portfolio Bank-wide.
        · Engaging the Cambodian government and other donors in a high-level dialogue on key
            issues and obstacles to improved natural resources management.



                                                7

         · Proposing guidelines for improving community consultation in the production forests.
         · Signing a Japanese Social Development Fund grant for support to community forestry
             that will be launched in early 2007.

The continuing dialogue places emphasis on increasing coordination across sub-sectoral operations
in forestry, land and biodiversity conservation.

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

8.1.1 The PDOs consistent with the CAS in place at the time of project appraisal in 2000. They
addressed the issues of enhancing rural development and natural resources management, reducing
poverty (through employment creation) and strengthening institutional capacity. They were also
consistent with the government's first five-year Social and Economic Development Plan that aimed at
rural development and attracting investment.

8.1.2 The project was designed and initiated at a time when the forest sector in Cambodia was in
crisis. A number of forest concessions had been hastily awarded in the mid-1990s and were being
exploited in an anarchic and unsustainable fashion by companies that had little knowledge of or
experience in forestry. The situation at the time was described in an ADB report as constituting "total
system failure" and the report went on to indicate that the proposed Bank project was therefore
needed. The government was capturing little of the revenue from this exploitation, and forestry
operations were causing considerable social and environmental damage. The project was established
to assist the government to rein in this process and to put in place a proper institutional and regulatory
framework for forest concession management. Its second major objective was to assist the
government to counter the lawlessness prevalent in the sector. Given the uncertainties surrounding
the sector, the project was designed as a LIL to enable new approaches to concession management
and law enforcement to be tested and adapted. It addressed the issue of weak regulatory capacity
within the FA.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

8.2.1 The PDOs have only been partially achieved. Substantial progress was made in developing a
comprehensive set of sustainable forest management and operational guidelines (at the output level)
but implementation of these guidelines to demonstrate their effectiveness (outcome level) has not
progressed due to the suspension of commercial logging. Some limited progress was made in the
establishment of an effective forest crime monitoring and prevention capability but sustainability of
this outcome is uncertain.


8.3 Efficiency

8.3.1 No economic analysis was carried out for the project at appraisal.




                                               8

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

8.4.1 Despite the effective imposition of a moratorium to stem anarchic logging and ensure
concessionaires' compliance with sustainable forest management planning requirements, the overall
outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory. For reasons related to the optimism of the original
assumptions, changing external conditions and failures to adapt and innovate, few of the original
objectives were met. The original concept of the project relied heavily on "learning by doing". The
suspension of all legal concession logging operations during the project meant that practical
experience and opportunities for learning were severely limited.

8.4.2 The project yielded benefits in the forest sector in areas outside the original objectives. The
project contributed to the discussions that led to the December 2003 Forest Law and had some
influence on the Sub-Decree on Community Forest Management. The Bank's involvement also
added to the pressure to suspend the concession system in 2002 and to introduce a ban on logging and
the transport of logs. The Bank was an instigator of and contributor to the Independent Forest Sector
Review (IFSR) in 2003-2004. The Bank has been a prominent contributor to the continuing forest
policy discourse in Cambodia. Bank involvement probably helped to introduce forest issues into the
broader policy debate on natural resources, decentralization and governance.


8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

8.5.1    The project sought to institutionalize procedures to include affected communities in decision-
making and to improve public access to information and dispute-resolution mechanisms. It built on
background studies that documented the extent of social exclusion in the concession system, the
attendant risks and the harm that was occurring. Consistent with the Sub-Decree on Forest
Concession Management, the project aimed to develop and enforce planning requirements that would
include environmental and social assessment, preparation of plans and other documentation, and
appropriate scrutiny and public disclosure before being permitted to advance to actual field
operations. The project envisaged that detailed site planning, building on a consultative process with
affected communities, would be undertaken during implementation by qualified consultants hired by
the concessionaires, but for the most part this did not happen. Consultations were insufficient both in
form and substance and had little discernable impact on the Strategic Forest Management Plans that
were produced by the concessionaires.

8.5.2    As noted in the Management Report and Recommendation in response to the Inspection
Panel's findings, the Bank (in consultation with the government) should have played a more proactive
role in encouraging early and sustained involvement of local communities in project design and
implementation. In retrospect, many crucial issues might have been more effectively addressed at an
earlier stage (e.g., overlapping claims on timber/resin trees, lack of effective concessionaire controls
over sub-contractors, and restriction of access to livelihood resources) lowering tensions and
apprehensions on all sides and speeding the process of reform. The Bank might have worked more
closely with the implementing agency to ensure the appropriate identification of affected
communities, the associated area of impact and appropriate third parties (free from conflict of
interest) to carry out environmental and social impact assessments. Mechanisms for monitoring
compliance with planned consultation procedures might also have been agreed in advance, and results
of monitoring efforts made public.


                                                9

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

8.5.3 The project was moderately unsatisfactory in its impact on the institutional development of the
FA. However, the project laid the foundation for a broad range of forestry options in the future and
the Implementing Agency has highlighted the capacity-building impacts of the project on enhancing
staff skills. The manuals, guidelines, laws and sub-decrees that were produced during the project
lifetime constitute a basis for proceeding with a diversity of approaches to sustainable forestry.
However, in December 2001 both logging and log transport were suspended by Ministerial order
(with support from the Bank) to ensure the full compliance of concessionaires with planning
requirements. This suspension led to the fact that the project was unable to test its approaches in
practice on the ground and this lack of practical application was a serious constraint to progress. This
lengthy suspension of field operations though essential in the circumstances has imposed a huge cost
on the institutional capacity and integrity of the FA.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

8.5.4 To respond to concerns that had been raised by NGOs and others about the possibility that
changes in forest area and conditions might have significantly undermined the management potential
of large areas of forest, the Bank urged the government to undertake an update of forest cover data as
a contribution to the Mid-Term Review (MTR). The FA proposed assigning this work to its Remote
Sensing Unit with international technical assistance provided by the Japan Policy and Human
Resources Development (PHRD) Grant. The study aimed to provide current information about recent
land-cover trends as a basis for discussion of forest management issues nationwide. The study
produced detailed maps of forest cover, forest cover changes and tabular estimates of changes by
major forest type for each concession and each park and protected area in Cambodia. Survey results
raised controversy among stakeholders who expected higher rates of loss and were concerned over
the potential political uses of the study's results.


8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

8.6.1 No briefing survey or stakeholder workshop was carried out.


9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome


Rating: Significant

9.1.1 The achievements in the field were significant in the sense that the rapid and uncontrolled
losses of forest resources were brought under control in part due to project interventions and related
policy dialogue. Practical field experience was limited by the suspension of logging activities;
however, the manuals and guidelines produced by the project can be expected to have a long "shelf-
life" and can be adapted to whatever strategies the government eventually chooses for forest sector
development. The project has also, albeit painfully slowly, led to new concepts and approaches to
forestry being much better and more widely understood in Cambodia. The senior staff of the FA is of
the strong opinion that improvement in the capacity of its staff was a sustainable benefit of the
project.

9.1.2 The logging ban appears to have stopped the worst excesses of previous anarchic logging
practices but the actual impacts of the ban on the condition of the forest resource base is uncertain.
True progress in achieving sustainability would require that the forests be brought under some form


                                                10

of management. The policy debate provoked by the project has helped to improve thinking and has
laid the groundwork for a wider range of more decentralized management approaches, and thus may
help take Cambodia through a difficult policy transition. This difficult process was probably
necessary if Cambodia was ever to move from a patronage-based forest management system to a
more equitable and sustainable system based on the rule of law. The issues that the project exposed
and that were at the center of the controversy surrounding it were the very ones that constituted the
main obstacles to progress in the sector.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank


(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

10.1.1    The project's overall "Quality at Entry" is rated as having been moderately unsatisfactory.
Project design was innovative in its inclusion of provision for an independent monitor and responsive
to the government's request for urgent assistance in improving capacity to regulate forest
concessions, but the design overestimated both borrower capacity and commitment and
underestimated the difficulties and inherent conflict of interest in assigning ESIAs to concessionaires.

10.1.2 As pointed out by the Inspection Panel, the project design did not adequately recognize the
existence of critical natural habitats; the decision to postpone active social assessment and
consultation procedure until the preparation of ESIAs by concessionaires was not consistent with
Bank policies, and an IPDP should have been prepared for this project. In general, the "design
created a structure likely to lead to inadequate levels of local involvement, community consultations,
and social and environmental assessments".

10.1.3 With hindsight, Management has acknowledged in the response to the Inspection Panel that
the government's commitment to the successful implementation of the project was over-estimated.
Management has also recognized that the project could have done more to involve local communities
and indigenous peoples in project design, preparation, outreach and implementation.


(b) Quality of Supervision


Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

10.1.4 Despite a significant investment in time and effort by the Bank, repeated attempts failed to
convince government counterparts to address the many outstanding issues with project management
and in particular to use the TA component of the project to address key issues as they emerged. The
problem was most evident in the failure to convince government quickly to address the need for
professional facilitation and conflict-mediation to defuse the polarized situation that developed with
critical activist NGOs. The fact that the policy dialogue that resulted from the controversy
surrounding the project was allowed to proceed in a way that minimized Cambodian involvement
(either from the FA, the government in general or Cambodian civil society) was also an issue that
should have been addressed during supervision.




                                                11

10.1.5 A Bank-led multi-donor supervision mission proposed to coincide with the government's
MTR was cancelled because of criticism by several NGOs of the mission's terms of reference. NGOs
sought Management's endorsement that the MTR explore alternative approaches to forest
management beyond concessions. A small Bank supervision mission was later fielded to discuss the
MTR findings in May 2003. In response to calls for a review of alternatives, the Bank supported a
multi-donor Independent Forest Sector Review (IFSR). Curiously, the IFSR appears to have seen the
donor community and the activist NGOs as its primary audience. Although the IFSR contains a
wealth of facts and good analysis of forest sector issues it is clear that the government feels no
ownership of its report. The donor community (with the exception of DFID and DANIDA) has also
been relatively little influenced by the IFSR.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance


Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

10.1.6 While the Bank made consistent efforts to press both the government and concessionaires to
improve forest management planning processes and to ensure compliance with the applicable laws
and guidelines, these efforts are seen in retrospect as insufficient given the magnitude of the
controversy and concerns about continued illegal logging and potential future harm to livelihoods
from continued concession operations.

10.2 Borrower


(a) Government Performance


Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

10.2.1 It is difficult to ascertain the quality of the Borrower's contribution towards project
preparation. The Borrower clearly had difficulty in implementing certain aspects of the project
(social and environmental issues in concession planning, for example) and might have been expected
to opt for more targeted technical assistance in this area at the time of preparation.

10.2.2 The government's performance during implementation is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.
The government was slow to put into place alternative management strategies for cancelled
concessions or to protect those that were threatened. Communications between the Borrower and the
concession management planners appear to have been inadequate, and it appears that the
concessionaires never fully understood what was expected of them.


(b) Implementing Agency Performance


Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

10.2.3 The FA as implementing agency engaged effectively in the review and formal approval of a
comprehensive set of forest management and operational guidelines under the project (though they
left much of the work of preparing these guidelines to the Technical Assistance team) but performed
poorly in terms of carrying out its mandates with regard to implementation of these guidelines and in
the establishment of a forest crime monitoring and prevention capability. The Forest Administration
has pointed out that there were several reasons for delays in the initial years of project



                                                12

implementation, citing: (a) the expanded scope of the project which was originally intended to focus
on only a small group of concessions; (b) the lack of prior experience with and training in Bank
procurement procedures; (c) delays in securing Bank's no objection letters; and (d) the politically
sensitive nature of decision making in forestry with many competing stakeholders. In recognizing
these challenges it must still be pointed out that some activities that were fully under Forest
Administration management and control were delayed for reasons unrelated to the aforementioned. In
particular, slow and incomplete implementation of the PHRD grant activities contributed to the poor
quality of consultations with communities, ultimately undermining the credibility of the concession
system. The FA's grudging responses to calls for greater public accountability and sharing of
information contributed to a steep decline in public confidence in the forest concession reform process
and in the relationship with the Bank.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance


Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

10.2.4 The government failed to move decisively to follow-up on the numerous policy studies that
were carried out during the project, most notably on the IFSR. The government also failed to act on
the recommendations of its own Technical Review Team to "stop" several concessions and failed to
respond to written recommendations from the Bank to take decisive action holding concessionaires to
account for poor performance under their existing contracts and within the limits of existing laws.

11. Lessons Learned

11.1.1 Several lessons were learned in the course of the project cycle that have specific relevance to
similar projects in this sector, both in Cambodia and other countries (the lessons outlined here were
developed independently by the ICR preparation team and should be read in conjunction with the
lessons outlined in the Management Report to the Board (pages 23-24; Annex 11):

        (a) The project design was based on optimistic views of the speed with which the Borrower's
             performance could be enhanced. At the time of effectiveness, the FA had very little
             capacity to provide the manpower and skills to operate the project successfully.
             However, a relatively simple concession system was probably the best option in a
             situation of exceedingly weak regulatory capacity.

        (b) The project's design under-estimated the difficulties of working with private sector
             partners (concessionaires) who had signed contracts with the government before the
             project was conceived. The concessionaires entered into agreements with the government
             expecting that there would be little oversight or control placed on their operations.
             Concessionaires were never able to meet the planning requirements introduced by the
             government under the project. However, some of the concession operators could have
             moved towards more sustainable operations if they had actively adopted a "step-wise,"
             progressive approach. For weaker concessionaires, moving to international standards of
             best practice was not possible.

        (c) When the original basis for consensus amongst partners in a very difficult and sensitive
             sector erodes - for any reason - it is better to pause and work to rebuild some level of
             consensus than to charge ahead in the absence of that agreement.




                                                13

        (d) The potential for technical assistance to lead to rapid improvements in practical capacity
             in the field for forest managers was overestimated. It is clearly very difficult to mobilize
             technical assistance personnel who combine the technical and language skills needed for
             this type of project and who can participate in competitive bidding for short-term
             contractual work in difficult conditions. A technical assistance package supported by
             grant funding and implemented by an international technical agency with a strong track
             record of working in the sector in difficult countries (and with headquarter capacity to
             provide solid back-stopping) might be the preferred formula for forestry loans in
             countries with weak institutions.

        (e) The problems of working with a borrower agency whose staff did not have appropriate
             incentives to pursue project goals were under-estimated. This is a widespread challenge
             in projects of this type, and both donors and lenders have struggled to find credible
             solutions to the problem.

        (f) The difficulties of applying learning or introducing innovations in a LIL of this type were
             under-estimated. M&E should have been given more prominence and should have been
             used more pro-actively as the primary tool to adapt the project and address its weaknesses
             early on. A properly functioning M&E system might have provided the basis for a
             stronger dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower, and might have been developed
             more pro-actively as the "learning and innovation" tool.

        (g) Cambodia was and remains a "forest-rich" country and, as the Operation and Evaluation
             Department (2000) report on implementation of the 1991 Forest Strategy has pointed out,
             in forest- rich environments "... poor governance, corruption, and political alliances
             between various segments of the private sector and ruling elites, combined with minimal
             local and regional enforcement capacity, all have played a part in environmentally
             damaging and socio-economically inequitable exploitation of natural capital. The
             situation can improve only if countries develop broad-based participatory institutions
             that offer equal voice to local constituencies, especially the vulnerable, and only if they
             can find the resources to forgo the short-term exploitation of forest. ".



12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

12.1.1 An ICR workshop was held in Phnom Penh on February 5, 2007 to share the findings of
the draft ICR with government counterparts and to receive the government's comments on the
draft report (which was shared in advance of the workshop).

12.1.2   Comments from Ministry of Agriculture Forestry and Fisheries (MAFF)

During discussions, H.E. Lim Sokun, Secretary of State, MAFF, raised the following points:

· MAFF also recognizes we have unsolved problems with forest concession management. We
    were not quite sure how to manage forest concessions effectively and efficiently after closing
    the concessions. We still have questions or wonder whether the closure of the forest
    concessions could benefit us or not because we have found that illegal logging still existed.




                                                14

· Referring to suspension of the forest concessions, we would like to receive more information
   from the Bank. We should not leave the issues in this current situation. We are concerned
   how to manage the forest sector effectively. We look forward to working together with
   development partners to strengthen and improve the current situation of the forest
   concessions. We have good laws, but there were still gaps between law enforcement and
   actual implementation, so that we have to cooperate with the Bank and other development
   partners in this area.

· In addition to the above, he also commented that MAFF has worked to develop a social and
   economic land concession program; that they had learned many lessons from economic land
   concessions; and that government was concerned about big economic land concessions.

12.1.3  Comments from implementing agency (Forestry Administration)

· As an implementing agency, we disagree with the performance rating by ICR that the Bank's
   performance was rated as Moderately Satisfactory while the Borrower's performance was
   rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory1. This assumption was not fair to the Borrower. In case
   of unsatisfactory of the outcomes, it should be both Bank and Borrower's performance were
   rated because we were both work closely in the same boat on implementation and most of the
   tasks were inter-related.

· The ICR attributes slow implementation of the project to the implementing agency (the
   Borrower) alone which is not a fair judgment in this particular case. Slow or delayed project
   implementation has many causes, notably (1) late in the design stage the project scope
   increased from a focus on improving performance in two or three concessions only under the
   framework of pilot project to all forest concessions through out the country. This is one of
   the main reasons that delayed the implementation from three to five years, (2) Rules of
   procedures of the Bank and the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) were not yet
   available at that time. The project staff based on the existing complicated rules which
   sometime caused duplication of work. Most of the staff have not been trained well in
   advance, (3) the process of requesting for NOL from the Bank as well as MEF for
   procurement of goods or selection of consultants were lengthy and too complicated to follow
   that lead to time consuming, generally it took half to one month to get approval or even more
   in some cases, (4) the Forest Concession Management Project is a sensitive project since it
   was dealing with natural resources which have been depended upon by local people for
   subsistence. The project was interested by too many stakeholders including civil societies,
   Donor, development partners, local communities, and relevant government agencies.

· The Bank was not considered FA as partner on forestry development. It seems that
   ownership was not likely happen in Cambodia due to forcing from the Bank from time to
   time.

· FA staff including the Technical Review Team (TRT) had performed well with less
   incentive. The national staff worked very hard but received bad reputation from this report
   instead. During implementation there was no complaint raised by international independent
   consultants or experts at all. The assumption that the national staff inability in technical
   evaluation of the Strategic Forest Management Plan (SFMP) and negative collaboration



1This rating was subsequently changed as part of the Bank's internal review.


                                                15

    between Technical Assistance (TA) and FA staff were not true.

· All equipment procured under this project was distributed for use in accordance to its
    functions. However, the lowest price-selection policy of the Bank has impact negatively to
    the quality of the goods procured under the project.

· Although the outcomes of the project were rated Unsatisfactory by the ICR, we, as
    implementing agency considers that capacity of government staff had been built in forest
    concession management and control. The manuals, guidelines, contributions to laws and sub-
    decrees were seen as major achievements.

· Many obstacles which attributed to FA were obviously seen as threat to the implementation
    of the project. Thus the FA did not have the mandate to move more rapidly to put into place
    alternative arrangements for suspended and cancelled concessions.

· As an outcome of project implementation, big scale illegal forestry activities have been
    shifted to small picture and in small quantity which is only for supplying of local-market
    demands. However, the issue of forest land encroachment yet is seen as the culprit for not
    dealing with this problem more effectively. Forest land encroachment is a problem that can
    only be addressed by higher levels of government.


(b) Co-financiers

12.1.4 There were no co-financiers or other external partners involved in the implementation of
the project. However, there was parallel financing of the Independent Monitor for the first few
years through a related FAO/UNDP-funded project.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders

12.1.5 Please refer to the Inspection Panel review documents on file.




                                              16

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The overall project development objectives were: (a) to demonstrate and improve the
effectiveness of a comprehensive set of forest management and operational guidelines and control
procedures in forest concession areas; and (b) to establish an effective forest crime monitoring
and prevention capability.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)


No changes were made to the PDOs during project implementation.

(a) PDO Indicator:


                                                                                     Actual Value

  Indicator       Baseline Original Target Values (from        Formally Revised       Achieved at
                   Value         approval documents)            Target Values       Completion or
                                                                                     Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Area currently under forest concession in Cambodia
                           No specific target; reduction was
Value            over 6    based on concessionaire
(quantitative or million   performance in preparation of plans
qualitative)     hectares  and available unencumbered
                           resources.

Date achieved    06/01/1999 06/30/2005

Comments


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator:
                                                                                     Actual Value

  Indicator       Baseline Original Target Values (from        Formally Revised       Achieved at
                   Value         approval documents)            Target Values       Completion or
                                                                                     Target Years
Indicator 1 : Final decisions on Strategic Forest Management Plans
Value
(quantitative or No

qualitative)     decisions All decisions final
                 taken


Date achieved 06/05/2000 06/30/2005

Comments




                                                 17

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)



Restructuring     Board        ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed at      Reason for

    Date(s)      Approved      Restructuring  Restructuring in US$ Restructuring & Key
               PDO Change       DO       IP         million          Changes Made

12/31/2003                       S        U           2.41




                                       18

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Category (in US$ million equivalent)


           Category              Appraisal Estimate         Actual          Percentage of
                                   (US$ million)          (US$ million)      Appraisal
Civil works                             0.49                 0.79                160
Goods                                   1.30                 1.35                104
Consultants' services and
                                        1.84                 2.06                112
training
Operating costs                         0.93                 0.48                51
Unallocated                             0.48                 0.00                 -
Total Project Costs                     5.04                 4.68                 -
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00                 0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                 0.00               0.00
Total Financing Required                5.42                 0.00                 -


(b) Financing


                                                Appraisal      Actual/Latest
      Source of Funds           Type of                                       Percentage
                             Co-financing     Estimate (US$     Estimate
                                                 million)      (US$ million)  of Appraisal

Borrower                                          0.60              0.26           43
International Development
                                                  4.82              4.68           97
Association




                                          19

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            20

Annex 4. Outputs by Component


Component A. Forest Planning and Inventory

4.1 The project performance was satisfactory in producing the forest management manuals and
guidelines specified in the PAD. However, the existence of these documents was not translated
into a capacity for forest planning and inventory within the FA. The weakness of the
management plans prepared by the concessionaires must be attributable, at least in part, to a lack
of guidance and technical support from the FA. Several concessionaires made considerable
investments in preparing management plans, but they either did not understand what was
expected of them or considered that their plans were unlikely to be submitted to scrutiny. FA's
efforts to review the community consultations undertaken by concessionaires did not add value to
the planning process. The international technical assistance does not appear to have succeeded in
communicating the real needs and objectives of socially and environmentally sustainable
management planning to the staff. It must, however, be recognized that the few well-trained
foresters working for the FA at that time and deployed in support of management planning had
come from conventional forestry backgrounds and several had been trained in countries where
social and environmental issues were not yet prominent in forestry education.

4.2 An important expected output of the project was an improved capacity of FA to conduct
forest inventories. The inventory data included in the management plans lacks credibility, and
there is no evidence of capacity to undertake this work within the FA or the concessions.

4.3 A second important output of this component was a strengthened capacity to use remote
sensing and Geographic Information Systems (GISs) to support management planning. Very few
project resources and minimal technical assistance appear to have flowed to this component, and
the only output is a 2002 forest cover map of the country. No remote sensing images were
provided by the FA in support of management planning. The one example of mis-procurement in
the project concerned equipment for the GIS unit, and the subsequent canceling of this order
further weakened an already weak component.

4.4 The problems of addressing the issues of people living in and around concession areas have
been controversial in the project since its early days. It has been a continuous issue of tension
between Bank supervision missions and the government. It has to be recognized that there were
fundamental cultural issues that made it difficult for the largely urban-based concession managers
to communicate with the isolated forest-dwelling communities. There was no tradition of this
sort of consultative process in the recent, post-conflict history of Cambodia. Many of the
consultants engaged by the concessionaires to support management planning came from countries
where such social processes are weak. In most countries in the region, forest management
planning has until very recently been understood as the process of conducting inventories,
calculating allowable cuts and making logging plans. A recent study commissioned by the Bank
assessed the extent to which consultation processes had taken place in twelve villages around the
three remaining concessions that are at the top of the list in terms of the acceptability of their
plans. The study showed that although 80 percent of the villages had been contacted by the
logging companies in the process of preparing plans only two percent considered that their
interests had been adequately addressed by the planning process.




                                                21

Component B. Concession Regulation and Control

4.5 Funds for civil works, acquisition of equipment, purchase of vehicles, construction of
training facilities and provision of training programs and technical assistance were disbursed.
Some new buildings were constructed in Phnom Penh and in the regions. Vehicles and
Information Technology equipment were provided. Material support to the FA in Phnom Penh
improved working conditions for FA staff, and may have improved motivation, but operations in
the field that the material was intended to support did not take place so there was an inevitable
mismatch between materials supplied and field needs.

4.6 The TA provided to the project yielded the manuals and planning methodologies required.
However, there appears to be little "ownership" or understanding of these products amongst FA
staff. It appears that the TA and the FA staff did not operate as a team. The FA staff assigned to
the project did not have adequate technical backgrounds in the subject areas and were few in
number. The technical advisors appear to have had difficulty developing effective working
relations with the FA technical staff. This was a result of weak language skills amongst some FA
staff, the lack of advanced skills in some of the subject areas required, and the competition for the
services of those few skilled staff who had language skills. A number of the better-qualified FA
staff who might have worked on the project left during the project to work for international
projects, NGOs, etc., and this further depleted the ability of the FA to provide counterpart
support.

Component C. Forest Crime Monitoring and Prevention

4.7 A data-base and monitoring system for tracking forest crime is in place. It appears to be
operating adequately although at present there is no independent monitor in place to provide
verification. During the project period an independent monitor was able to review and report
publicly on the performance of the government-managed monitoring system. In terms of the
specific objectives of the project, this component performed satisfactorily. However, such
monitoring systems are only useful if they are linked to a crime suppression capacity on the
ground. It is not apparent that the monitoring system has strengthened this field capacity. It
should be noted that field activities of FA staff supported by international conservation
organizations have yielded greatly improved law enforcement in some parts of the country.
Materials, funds and technical support from the Bank have been important in allowing this to
happen.

4.8 A Forest Law Enforcement and Governance study recently prepared by the Bank concluded
that the Bank should place emphasis on macro-level measures to improve governance. It
suggests that the Bank, as well as other donors and lenders, should work with the Prime
Minister's office to stamp out corruption at the national level. Such global efforts to address the
problems of weak governance are desirable, but this does not detract from the need to have
international support for practical actions to secure forest resources at the more local level.
Experience in other countries suggests that in a society where patronage systems predominate in
resource allocation progress towards more equitable systems is often very slow. The important
forest areas in Cambodia (both as economic resources and for biodiversity conservation) are well
known. Even modest efforts to secure the conservation and sustainable use of these areas will
certainly yield immediate benefits. This was the fundamental approach of the project in 1999,
and the conclusion of this ICR is that this remains the best opportunity for short-term progress.




                                                22

Component D. Project Management and Institutional Strengthening

4.9 A PMU was established under this component. After some initial problems, procurement
and financial management functions appear to have been performed satisfactorily. The original
intention that this component would provide the secretariat for a National Committee for Forest
Policy has only been partially fulfilled. The project did serve as a secretariat for the Forestry
Working Group and this has provided an interface between the FA and the donor community.
The FA could still take the lead on a National Forest Program and this would be consistent with
the original intentions expressed in the PAD. Experience in other countries suggests that there is
limited scope for real operational coordination between donors who have their own independent
programs and project strategies and objectives. However, a central capacity to facilitate the
emergence of a shared vision of desirable medium-term scenarios for forests and forestry in
Cambodia would be useful in helping to harmonize policy signals from donor projects.

4.10 Under Component D, the PAD mentions establishment of an M&E capacity for the project
within the PMU, but this was never fully implemented, in part because concession operations
were suspended as a result of the logging moratorium. M&E as outlined in the PAD Annex 1
focused on the review of project reports and planning documents prepared by the concessionaires.
Monitoring in the form of the detailed review of SFMPs prepared by concessionaires was
coordinated by the PMU through the Technical Review Team, but the regular review of forest
crime was largely delegated to the Independent Monitor with little or no analysis of data
contained in the case tracking system or the strategic deployment of crime control efforts in
response to the findings of the Independent Monitor.




                                              23

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

5.1 No economic or financial analysis of the project or its components was carried out at
appraisal or during the ICR preparation.




                                           24

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members:
         Names                        Title                   Unit  Responsibility/Specialty

Lending

William Magrath        Lead Natural Resources Economist EASRD

                                                                    Environment and
John Dick              Consultant
                                                                    Biodiversity Conservation


Supervision/ICR

William Magrath        Lead Natural Resources Economist   EASRD

Peter Jipp             Senior Forestry Specialist         SASAR     ICR Team Leader

Mudita Chamroeun       Rural Development Officer          EASRD

Chinnakorn Chantra     Procurement Specialist             EAPCO

Kannathee Danaisawat   Financial Management Specialist    EAPCO

Lars Lund              Social Scientist                   EASSD

                                                                    Environment and
John Dick              Consultant
                                                                    Biodiversity Conservation

                                                                    Social Forestry and
Karen Augustat         Consultant
                                                                    Community Consultation

Saroeun Bou            Communication Associate            EACSF     Strategic Communications

Kimberly Versak        Communication Officer              EACTF     Strategic Communications

Kariyan Mei            FAO staff                                    Economist

Jeff Sayer             Consultant                                   Principal Author

                                                                    Social Forestry and
Juergen Fichtenau      Consultant
                                                                    Community Consultation

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived             DO                     IP         Actual Disbursements
                                                                        (US$ million)

1    06/15/2000          Satisfactory             Satisfactory               0.00

2    12/27/2000          Satisfactory             Satisfactory               0.00

3    06/25/2001          Satisfactory             Satisfactory               0.30

4    12/20/2001          Satisfactory             Satisfactory               0.37

5    06/19/2002          Satisfactory             Satisfactory               0.62

6    12/20/2002          Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory             1.11

7    06/17/2003          Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory             1.53




                                             25

9   06/15/2004             Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory              3.07

10 06/29/2004              Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory              3.07

11 12/21/2004              Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory              3.88

12 06/24/2005              Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory              4.45

13 06/30/2005              Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory              4.55

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget only)

              Stage of Project Cycle                                  US$ thousands
                                             No. of staff weeks    (including travel and
                                                                     consultant costs)

Lending

                      FY99                                                 82.47

                      FY00                                                 92.21

                      FY01                                                 0.27

                      FY02                                                 2.24

                      FY03                                                 0.00

                      FY04                                                 0.00

                      FY05                                                 0.00

                      FY06                                                 0.00

                      FY07                                                 0.00

Total                                                                     177.19

Supervision/ICR


                      FY00                            1                    1.98

                      FY01                            7                    34.53

                      FY02                            4                    22.98

                      FY03                            4                    39.49

                      FY04                            22                  120.01

                      FY05                            29                  173.88

                      FY06                            -                   200.92

                      FY07                            -                    4.68

Total                                                 67                  598.47




                                          26

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance


        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower           Ratings
Ensuring Quality at  Moderately                              Moderately
                                           Government:
Entry:               Unsatisfactory                          Unsatisfactory
Quality of           Moderately            Implementing      Moderately
Supervision:         Unsatisfactory        Agencies:         Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank         Moderately            Overall Borrower  Moderately
Performance:         Unsatisfactory        Performance:      Unsatisfactory




                                        27

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)


As this was a core ICR, no beneficiary survey was carried out as part of the ICR preparation.




                                            28

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

As this was a core ICR, no stakeholder workshop was carried out as part of the ICR preparation.




                                            29

Annex 10. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

There were no co-financiers or other partners.




                                             30

Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents

Independent Forest Sector Review, 2004
Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 20465-KH, June 2, 2000
Development Credit Agreement
Management Letter November, 2005
Management Report May, 2006
GFA Review of Strategic Forest Management Plans, 2004/2005
Assessment of Community Consultations, May 2006
Quality Enhancement Review, 2003
Draft Natural Resources Management Framework, 2006




                                          31

