  InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
          International Development Association




MANAGEMENT REPORTAND RECOMMENDATION

                INRESPONSETO THE

 INSPECTIONPANELINVESTIGATIONREPORT




CAMBODIA: FORESTCONCESSIONMANAGEMENT
          AND CONTROLPILOTPROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 3365-KH AND TRUST FUND.26419-JPN)




                       May 16,2006


              MANAGEMENT REPORTAND RECOMMENDATION
                                       INRESPONSETO THE
          INSPECTIONPANELINVESTIGATION REPORTNO. 35556

             CAMBODIA: FORESTCONCESSIONMANAGEMENT
                            AND CONTROLPILOTPROJECT
              (CREDIT NO. 3365-KHAND TRUST FUND.26419-JPN)


                                                     CONTENTS
Abbreviations andAcronyms ............................................................................................            iv
List of Operational Policies, Operational Directives,
Operational Manual Statements, and Operational PolicyNotes........................................                                vi
I. Introduction.............................................................................................................       1
11.     Project Descnption..................................................................................................
        Background.............................................................................................................    1
111.                 . .                                                                                                           4
IV.     FindingsandObservationsofthe Panel..................................................................                       6
V.      Key Issues...............................................................................................................  8
VI.                                                                                                                               22
        Management Action Plan......................................................................................
        Lessons Learned....................................................................................................
VII.
VIII. Conclusion............................................................................................................      25
                                                                                                                                  29


Tables
Table 1. Supervision Costs


Boxes
Box 1.     Draft Community Consultation Guidelines


Annexes:
Annex 1. Findings, Comments andActions
Annex 2. Sub-Decreeon Forest ConcessionManagement
Annex 3. Informationon Supervision
Annex 4. November 2005 Letter on ForestManagement inCambodia
Annex 5. List o fKeyDocuments andReferences


Maps:
Map 1.     IBRDNo. 33865 Cambodia ConcessionAreas - 1997to present




                                                             ...
                                                            111

Cambodia Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project



                             h3BREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

               ADB             Asian Development Bank
               BNPP            Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program
               BP              BankProcedures
               CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
               C I             Conservation International
               CTIA            CambodiaTimber Industries Association
               DANIDA          Danish International Development Agency
               DFID            Department for International Development (United
                               Kingdom)
               DFW             Department of Forestry and Wildlife
               EA              EnvironmentalAssessment
               EAP             East Asia andthe Pacific Region
               ESIA            Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
               FA              Forestry Administration
               FA0             Food andAgriculture Organization o fthe UnitedNations
               FCMCPP          Forest Concession Management Control andPilot Project
               ICR             ImplementationCompletion Report
               IDA             International Development Association
               IFSR            Independent Forest Sector Review
               IPDP            IndigenousPeoples Development Plan
               IPN             InspectionPanel
               ITTO            International Tropical Timber Organization
               LIL             LearningandInnovationLoan
               MAFF            Ministry o f Agriculture, Forestry andFisheries
               M O E           Ministry o f Environment
               MTR             Mid-Term Review
               NGO             Nongovernmental Organization
               NRM             Natural Resources Management
                O D            Operational Directive
                OED            Operations Evaluation Department
                OP             Operational Policy
                OPN            OperationalPolicyNote
               PAD             Project Appraisal Document
               PHRD            Japan Policy andHumanResources Development Fund
               Prakas          Regulationissuedby a Government office or officer, also
                               known as a Ministerial Order
                QACU           Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit
                QER            Quality Enhancement Review
                SAC            StructuralAdjustment Credit
                SDR            Special DrawingRights
                SEA            Strategic Environmental Assessment
                SFMP           Strategic Forest Management Plan
                SGS            Soci6t6 g6n6rale de surveillance (General Surveillance So-
                               ciety)
                TFT            Tropical Forest Trust


                                              iv

                           Management Report and Recommendation


TOR   Terms ofReference
TRT   TechnicalReviewTeam
TWG   TechnicalWorkingGroup
UNDP  UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgramme
USD
wcs   UnitedStates Dollar
      Wildlife ConservationSociety
WWF   WorldWildlife Fund




                   V


Cambodia Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project



LISTOF OPERATIONALPOLICIES, OPERATIONALDIRECTIVES,                             OPERATIONALMANUAL
                        STATEMENTS, AND OPERATIONAL POLICY NOTES

       OPDP 4.01                    EnvironmentalAssessment, January 1999
       OPDP 4.04                    NaturalHabitats, September 1995
       OD 4.20                      IndigenousPeoples, September 1991
       OP 4.36'                     Forestry, September 1993
       OP 8.40                      TechnicalAssistance, October 1994
       OP/OB 10.00                  InvestmentLending: Identification to BoardPresentation,
                                    June 1994
       OPN 11.03                    Cultural Property, September 1986
       OD/OP/BP 13.05               Project Supervision, January 1996/ July 2001
       World BankPolicy onDisclosureofInformation, 2002
       President's Memorandumon Adaptable Lending, 1997 and subsequent directives
       on Learningand InnovationLoans (LILs).




'OP 4.36 (Forestry) issuedin September 1993 applies to this Projectbecause the Credit financing the FCMCPP was
approvedinJune 2000 while the current BankPolicy OPBP 4.36 (Forests) was issuedinNovember2002.


                                                      vi


                                I. INTRODUCTION

1.      On February 4, 2005, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection,
IPNRequest RQ05/1 (hereafter referredto as "the Request"), concerningthe Cambodia
Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project (FCMCPP), Credit No. 3365-
KH, financed by the International Development Association (IDA). The Request was
submitted by NGO Forum o f Cambodia acting on its own behalf and on behalf o f
affected local communities living in the districts o f Tbeng Meanchey in Preah Vihear
Province; Siem Bok and Sesan in Stung Treng Province; and Anlong Veng in Oddar
Meanchey Province, Cambodia (hereafter referredto as the "Requesters").

2.      The Executive Directors and the President o f IDA were notified by the Panel o f
receipt of the Request. Management responded to the claims in the Request on March 8,
2005.

3.      In its Report to the Board, the Panelfound the Request eligible andrecommended
that the Executive Directors authorize an investigation. The investigationwas authorized
bythe Executive DirectorsonApril 14,2005.

4.      OnMarch 30,2006, the Panelissued its report outlining the findings o f the inves-
tigation. Management appreciates the Panel's thorough presentation o f its findings. This
report, responding to the findings o f the Panel, is organized inseveral sections. Section 11
is an overview o f the forestry sector in Cambodia at the time the project was being pre-
pared. Section I11provides a description o f the project. Section I V contains the findings
and observations o f the Panel. Section V outlines the key issues inpreparing and imple-
menting the project. Lessons learned are presented in Section VI and the Management's
Action Plani s provided inSectionVII. SectionVI11contains the conclusion. The Panel's
findings, along with Management's responses, are described in detail in Annex 1. An-
nexes 2-5 provide additional supporting documentation.

                                 11.     BACKGROUND

5,      Governance in Natural Resources Management (NRM). The project developed
as Cambodia, one o f the poorest countries in the region (USD 290 per capita annual in-
come in2000), emerged inthe mid-1990s from decades o f war and isolation. Its institu-
tions were fragile andviolence and social dislocationwere ongoing, with disarray extend-
ingto all parts of the economy. Duringthe second halfo fthe 1990s andinto this decade,
stability has increased, agricultural growth has been restored, rural incomes have in-
creased, and rural poverty has come down (although not as quickly as in urban areas).
However, corruption and non-transparent allocation o f natural resource exploitation
rightshave heldback andcontinue to holdback progress with access to natural resources
(including land, forests, and fisheries) upon which local communities depend for con-
sumption andmuch of their income being limited, and the number o f landless farmers in
Cambodia steadily increasing.

6.      Bythe late 1 9 9 0 the Government hadbegunan ambitious structuralreformpro-
                            ~ ~
gram, with the support of the Bank and other donors. The Bank's 2000 Country Assis-



                                              1

Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project


tance Strategy (CAS) for Cambodia discussed the governance challenges facing the coun-
try, amongthem awareness of the excessive role ofthe military innational life, the limi-
tations and weak capacity o f the public administration, low civil service salaries, wide-
spread corruption, and other problems. The CAS further proposed steps to build "the
foundations for sustainable development and poverty reduction" as the Bank's main ob-
jective in Cambodia (CAS, p. v). The CAS also acknowledged the risks to Cambodia o f
faltering political commitment to reforms in the face o f powerhl special interests or a
return to social unrest andpolitical instability. The effective management o f critical natu-
ral resources-especially landand forests-was          an important component o f Cambodia's
economic reconstruction.

7.       Bunk Approuch to Forestry Sector. The Bank's work in forestry in Cambodia
was strongly influenced by the evolving thinking on forestry issues at an institutional
level, as reflected in the Bank's Forest Sector Policy Paper (1991), Forestry Policy
(1993), and Forest Strategy (2002). The broad goals o f the Bank's Forest Sector Policy
paper were to prevent or significantly reduce deforestation and to stimulate plantations
and creation of additional forest resources. It recognized the role o f forestry in poverty
reduction, emphasized preservation o f intact forest areas and included a Bank commit-
ment not to finance commercial logging in primary moist tropical forests. OP 4.36 on
Forestry, introduced in 1993, reflected the strategic content o fthe 1991paper.

 8.      During 1999-2000, the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) undertook a
review of experience with the strategy and policy, which found that implementation had
 fallen short o f objectives, with a "chilling effect" on Bank support for forestry sector ac-
tivities, andthat lendingfor self-standing forestry sector operations that traditionally dealt
with key forest policy and management sector issues had stagnated. Among many rec-
 ommendations, OED advised that the Bank should "address the risky and controversial
 issues of the forest sector." Inparticular, OED stated that "Illegal logging needs to be re-
 duced by actively promoting improved governance and enforcement o f laws and regula-
tions.. . helping Bank Borrowers improve, implement, and enforce existing laws and
 regulations." To do so "will also require that national stakeholders (especially civil soci-
 ety and the private sector) demand, implement, and monitor improved governance prac-
 tices.¶¶

 9.      The Bank subsequently conducted a two-year process o f analysis and consulta-
 tion, resulting in a revised Forest Strategy that was approved by the Executive Directors
 in2002 and incorporated inrevisions to OP 4.36. This Strategy mandates active Bank
 engagement in the sector to promote three equally important and interdependent objec-
 tives-harnessing    the potential o f forests to reduce poverty; integrating forests insustain-
 able economic development; and protecting the vital local and global environmental ser-
 vices and values provided by forests. The Strategy identified, as a priority, the need to
 address illegal logging and corruption and reform forest concession policies. Concerning
 concessions, the Strategy committed the Bank to promote use o f regulatory frameworks
 for timber concessions to enhance the contribution o f forests to economic and social de-
 velopment as well as environmental protection. The Strategy also committed the Bank to
 encourage governments to engage independent third-party certification bodies in per-
 formance-based monitoring o f forest harvesting andmanagement operations.


                                                  2

                                                               Management Report and Recommendation



10.      The Bank and Foresfty Management in Cambodia. Inthe mid-l990s, the Bank
undertook a detailed and comprehensive program o f sector work inCambodia to help fo-
cus attention on critical ingredients for environmentally sustainable and equitable re-
sources development, including the diverse values o f forests, the need for robust systems
of governance, and the participation o f communities and the private sector. More re-
cently, the Bank has worked closely with the Government o f Cambodia to ensure a sus-
pension o f logging, promote disclosure and transparency, and formalize a regulatory
process to anticipate andmitigate risks o f fbture harm.

11.      In1996, the Government, the Bank and others engaged inanintensive examina-
tion o f forest policy following a sector analysis by the Bank, United Nations Food and
Agricultural Organization (FAO), andUnitedNations Development Programme (UNDP).
That report, "Cambodia: Forest Policy Assessment" (Report No. 15777 ISH), laid out the
enormous economic, social and environmental potential o f the forest resource and identi-
fied serious weaknesses inthe Government's approach. Concessions stood out as a criti-
cal constraint to the emergence o f sustainable, diverse and socially responsible forestry in
Cambodia. Illegal logging was also seen as a serious threat to the sector. The Bank, FA0
and UNDP recommended a strategy involving development o f an improved regulatory
and legal framework, re-examination o f concession contracts, trade policy reform for log
and forest products and other measures. Subsequent studies estimated 3-4 million cubic
meters o f illegal logging in 1997-1998 and showed a continued pattern o f grossly inade-
quate fiscal returns (Development Alternatives, Incorporated, 1998; Fraser Thomas,
2000b). It was anticipated that at that rate o f exploitation, the forest would be exhausted
infive years. Analytic work on forestry bythe Bankwas carried out inclose association
and collaboration with other agencies, including multilateral agencies-Asian                      Develop-
ment Bank (ADB), as well as FA0 and UNDP-and bilateral donors and civil society
organizations.

12.      Although the Bankhad serious concerns about Cambodia's forest concession sys-
tem, and shared its views with the Government, the Bank recognized the dominant role
that concessions had in the sector and the severity o f the ongoing damage that virtually
uncontrolled concession operations were inflicting. The fact that concessions covered
most o f the forest area outside of the Protected Areas system, including land with limited
commercial potential, while also presenting serious risks to local communities, among
them Indigenous Peoples, was raisedby the Bank with the Government on numerous oc-
casions both in reports and in ongoing discussions.'. While working to reduce the most
egregious performance deficiencies in some concessions through terminations, the Gov-
ernment remained committed to a concession system as a means o f mobilizingrevenues
from forest resources and introducing effective management and protection through pri-
vatization via concessions o fmanagement operations that were beyond the scope o f Gov-
ernment capacity. This strategy is recognized and employed inmany countries for forests
as well as other resources, but requires intum specific kinds o f regulatory and safeguard
capabilities that, while recognized in Cambodia law and regulation, needed to be devel-

'See, for example, "Cambodia: ForestPolicy Assessment" andbackground paper entitled "A Vision for Forestry Sec-
tor Development" presentedto the 1999 Consultative Group Meeting (World BanMUNDP/FAO, 1996, World Bank,
1999).


                                                     3

Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project


oped at the operational level. The Bank, therefore, employed a three-pronged strategy in
Cambodian forestry issues to: (i) the Government in rationalizing the concession
                                         assist
system; (ii) assist in strengthening the regulatory system for the remaining concessions;
and (iii) contribute directly to the development o f alternative forest management ar-
rangements, such as community forestry andProtected Areas systems.

                               111.     PROJECTDESCRIPTION

13.     Overview. The emergence o f Cambodia from a post-conflict situation, the de-
pendency o f the country's poor on land, forests, and fisheries resources, the particular
challenges o f governance, and the country's long-term involvement in concession log-
ging all posed substantial risks inmoving forward to reform the management o f natural
resources. By the time the project was approved, there was an urgent need to address
overexploitation of timber resources andillegal logging inthe concession areas.

14.     TheProject. The IDA Credit o f SDR 3.6 million (USD4.82 million equivalent at
the time o f approval) for a Learning and InnovationLoan (LIL)was approved on June 5,
2000. The legal agreement was signed July 6, 2000 and the project became effective on
October 20, 2000. A Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD)
Grant o f USD 240,000 was provided for technical assistance during implementation.2
The project was originally scheduled to close on December 31, 2003. The Closing Date
was extended at the request o f the Borrower to June 30, 2005 to finance the contract o f
the Independent Monitor, SociCtCgCnCralede surveillance (SGS), when other donors did
not come forward. The project finally closed on December 31,2005 after two extensions.
As o f Closing, a total of USD 4.82 million was disbursed out o f the IDA Credit o f
SDR 3.6 million equivalent (USD 5.1 million, reflecting SDR appreciation against the
USD).

15.     Project Objectives. The overall project development objectives (Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement) were to demonstrate and improve the effectiveness o f a
comprehensive set o f forest management and operational guidelines and control proce-
dures inforest concession areas, andto establish an effective forest crime monitoring and
preventioncapability. The project was formulated with the expectation andunderstanding
that greater knowledge was needed about Cambodian forestry and about the ways in
which reforms could be advanced. As a LIL,the project was specifically expected to gen-
erate better understanding o f efforts to maintain the Government's commitment to sus-
tainable forestry, support the private sector, and, through learning from experience, better
understand how regulations could be made more effective inthe face o f difficult working
conditions (inefficient operations, low salaries, corruption, etc.).

16.     Project Components. The project consisted o f four components (Project Ap-
praisal Document [PAD], p. 5):




 The PHRD grant to the Government (June 2001) providedadditional technical assistance duringimplementation. This
Government-implemented grant focused on social and environmental assessmentand collaborative efforts to design the
CommunityConsultation Guidelines.



                                                      4

                                                         Management Report and Recommendation


        Forest Planning and Inventory Component (USD 1.3 million). This supported the
        Forestry Administration (FA) inproviding guidance to and exercising quality con-
        trol over concessionaire preparation o f detailed long- and short-term forest man-
        agement plans. It included the conduct o f field surveys and inventories, and as-
        sessment o f management constraints, biodiversity and social issues, and risks o f
        timber theft.

        Concession Regulation and Control Component (USD 2.04 million). This com-
        ponent was designed to strengthen the capacity o f the FA to oversee concession
        operations andto ensure compliance o f operations with plans and conditions.

        Forest Crime Monitoring and Prevention Component (USD 1.11 million). This
        component was designed to strengthen the capacity o f the FA and Ministryo f En-
        vironment (MOE) to regularly monitor illegal logging and to launch effective
        prevention activities. It introduced systematic data collection and analysis tech-
        niques, and provided equipment and contractual services, training and technical
        assistance.

        Project Management and Institutional Strengthening Component (USD 0.97 mil-
        lion). This component established a Project Management Unit inthe FA, includ-
        ing construction o f a small office building, and provision o f equipment and staff
        training.

The project was subsequently modified in2003 to address post-concession management
issues; this modification didnot require an amendment to the Development Credit Agree-
ment.

17.     The project complemented similar efforts by the Bank and donors to protect wild-
life, support community forestry, build institutional capacity, and address land use and
rural poverty reduction. The February 2000 Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) included
conditionalities for addressing a set o f policy actions to support a more orderly and trans-
parent management system o f forestry resources and establish an environmentally sus-
tainable, socially responsible and economically viable forest sector. It focused on: (i) for-
est crime monitoring, including developing a program for forest crime monitoring and
publishing a quarterlyreport on forest crimes; (ii)   concession management, including un-
dertaking a review of concession contracts and o f alternate mechanisms for timber royal-
ties with more transparent and market-based pricing principles, and preparing a sub-
decree that would define a community forestry policy following appropriate consultations
with stakeholders; and (iii)preparing a draft forest law for submissionto the National As-
sembly that would strengthen enforcement efforts and public accountability. Inaddition,
the Bank and GEF prepared a Biodiversity and Protected Areas LIL and the Bank pre-
pared a Land Administration project. A joint FAO/UNDP project, working in tandem
with the FCMCPP andthe SAC, also addressed forest crime monitoring.

18.     Overall Progress. There were a number o f delays in implementation. The forest
crime component o f the LIL had to await the resolution o f audit and procurement delays
affecting the FAO/UNDP project. It took some time for the Government to hire a project



                                               5


  iuntilc~repara~ionQP 4.04 and OD 4\20?which r e ~ earfy~
    ~    l u QP~4.0t,
              d   ~ ~of ESiAs by ~ n c e ~ s ~ o n18notr ~ $n ~ i $ ~withnBank ~ ool incsi ~ S ~
                                                     ~ ~ e               e    t
                                                                  ~ ~ ~~ $pu l ~ t iandfor
  $u~eysinth@prepara~ionphase.



- tent withdec~si~n ESlAs
  ronmen~l$a~eguardsnot app~~edp ~ p earea and ~ p4.20.i a ~ ~This.is not consis.
                                       to          r              u        o n

  Bank%      the appiica~l~Bank policieas~OP4.01 and ODand
                    to p ~ sactivesocial~sse~sme~t~ o ~ s # l ~ a~t ~ o n~ e d u r p
                                     ~ ~ ~ n ~


- untilp r ~ p a ~afaOP 4,04by~~nc~s$ion~iresis not ~ o nr s i swith ~
                         ~ i ~ ~                                        ~ e ~Bankp~l~c~e$,
  sinciudingOP 4.01,
     u ~ e inthe ~repara~ionpand s e ~
                                     OD 4.20, which r e ~ ~ ieariy~ons~lta~andfor
                                                                   e                  i ~ n s
             y ~                    a
  Panelnoteas ~ a ~ a g e ~ae n ~ s gement that a f~a~#workindi~enousP e o p l ~ ~
  and finds that in linewith iOD4.20, an~iPDPshuuid have been ~repar#d
  ~eveiop~entPian~              wo P        been~more~a~propria~eduring projpct design,
                                                                                  far this pro-
 ject.
= ~ s s ~ ~ofn~#$~on$ibili~~ ~ n s uwith~lnd~~~nous
                     ~ e ~ t for                   ~    i n ~       P~opiesto the ~ n c e s ~
  s i o ~ a i ~who ~are planning to logthe for@Stsusedby the lndigen~u~~eopies~ledto
                @ ~



I ~~ o ~kor~l ~~n~ge~~ ~ni ~g m e n ~ .
     a nis in~ ~ p l i a nwith para~rap~ of OP 4.3% b e ~ a uitsdid not~ n a n ~ e
                              c e           ?(a)                            ~




- This does not:~
  ~~ ~ iBankdid nat~inan~eha~estingof ~highvalue ~ ~ r a $ittdid~identi~iedInearly
  v o l ~ e ~ ~e n ~o~ ~~ n~p~ ~ u~ ~ andsocial s ,
                                           ~a t ii ~ n~andenvironrnentai ~ssess~ents~
                          ~with OP 4.318l andother Bankpoli~ies.
            l e                                                        S notens~mthat
  years of projectlend ~ aPlans~
     ~ @ nhighi ae~oiogica~value
              ~
  gic For@&~ ~ n a ~ e ~k ee n t :
                                 into                                     t of ~ e l e Strate-~ ~
                                                                                        v ~

  Bankwas frequen~l~msintrees,of ~
  nitlesdue to c u ~ of~degaware Bank`s~failureto con$~derand ~nveSt~ga~ethese
                                                    ~~ ~e p l~a iofn harmsto local~ m r n u ~
                                                                    u ~ss
                              ~



  videdfor in the Bankpoii~y~was carriedout as part of the project. To leavedetermi-
  ~nation^e l o anddp r e $ ~ ntheirdSFMPsfor a p ~to~ v aisfnot
     e v   about spiritf o ~ ~~to~~~ncessionaire$~includewithin their ESiAsIS thay
                                 $   S
                ~ ~                                            , con$i$~~n~OPN with
- 1if ,03.
  Procedur~usedbythe projectto              fy i ~ p o ~cul~uralprope~~e$refiedonthe
                                                                 ~
  con~s$ianairesto includethem
  ate ~peci~l~sts~This doesi nut comply with the ~
  provi$ionfor r e ~ ~their~e~iStenceto appropria~@n~levelc orei ~~ ~ l u ap~ropri-
                                    g        their p r o ~ saaendmeann a~~ e ~pian$,dwi~~~~ogut
                                                                               e n ~

                                                         i         ~ of~~rotec~ionanden-
                                                                            u    ~



I
- ~ o ~ $ iwith ~ e13.05, ~~~kf ~ ~~ u itsetechni~ias~ias~ance bu~ld~ng
  ity of the~FAti, a ~ ~d~~ veee~ o of mF~MnP~~by c o top ~ n i ~ s ,
                  ~ OP ~ t                      S                           on           capac
                                              ~        s       ~
  ~ a n k pa~ici~a~ionin di$cu$s~on$about ~ech~ni$msallow logs~ i r ~ acutyto bc
              s                                                                         d


  Paneln ~ ~this
- was not alwa~s~ o ~ ~ iwith~O~/BP13.05.
  Supe~isi~nthe forest;cover seun~~was~inade~ua~eand did not compl~with OP
                 # $a ~ ~ n a wsi
                of                           e
- 13.05.
  Panelcouidnotflnd inthe praie~tdo~u~entsan eva~u~t~on              or dis~~sSionwhe~~ei
                                                                                    of
  SGS~ui~fls~ ~ erela~edto in~ependencefor i~dependentforest monitor.This is
                c ~       r i a




                                    7

- The Panel finds that in the project`s focus on concessions,other aspects that were importanlto the Bank

                                                        Management Report and Recommendation


23.    Management notes the Panel's commendation and agrees that engaging in Cam-
bodia's forestry sector entailed considerable risk. The project was part o f a broad effort
under the 2000 CAS to help buildthe foundations for sustainable development and pov-
erty reduction, in particular, strengthening good governance through more accountable
public administration. The FCMCPP specifically came out o f the Government's request
for Bank assistance inconcession management as part o f an urgent effort to address over-
exploitation of timber resources andillegal logging and to improve resource use andpro-
tection inthe concessions. Management acknowledges that the project did not succeed in
adequately addressing the concerns o flocal communities andIndigenousPeoples.

24.     The project sought to assist the Government to regulate effectively the forestry
sector and promote equitable and sustainable use o f forest resources. Consistent with the
Government's Sub-Decree on Forest Concession Management (see para. 26 below and
Annex 2), the project was designed to support the process by which the Government es-
tablished planningrequirements-including      environmental and social assessment, prepa-
ration o fplans and other documentation, and appropriate scrutiny andpublic disclosure-
that were to be met by concessionaires prior to their being permitted to advance to more
detailed planningphases and approval o f any operations. The Bank's role was to advise
Government on the development and implementation o f policies and to encourage the
adoption o f sustainable and socially responsible forest management. This may have con-
tributed to the Panel's observation that the role o f the project and the role o f the FA had
become conflated inthe minds o fmany observers (Panel Investigation Report, para. 334).

25.     At the time concessions were granted (prior to the Bank's engagement) the Gov-
ernment had no systematic approach for planning, monitoring or controlling concession
operations. Annual logging permits were issued to concessionaires based almost entirely
on their logprocessing capacity, not on the productive potential o fthe forest, and without
regard to impacts on forest productivity or customary and livelihood rights o f affected
communities. Logging practices by concessionaires were generally poor and scant atten-
tion was paidto social and environmentalissues.

26.     The Sub-Decree on Forest Concession Management, enacted in February 2000,
defined the roles and responsibilities for concession management and supervision and set
out the key principles to guide concession operations. These principles aimed to provide
protection to local communities and the environment, restrict harvests to sustainable lev-
els, facilitate revenue collection and generally increase transparency and accountability.
However, the response from concessionaires to these new directives was much less than
expected.

27.     The Government o f Cambodia requested the Bank's assistance in concession
management as part o f an urgent effort to address overexploitation o f timber resources
and illegal logging. The Bank decided to assist the Government through the FCMCPP,
the SAC, and related projects (see para. 17) after considering that other donors were not
taking on the challenge posed by the concession system. The project's substantial risks
were discussed during appraisal. Nevertheless, at the time o f project preparation and ap-
proval, the Bank and other donors were optimistic about what was seen as a way forward
to improve forest management and regulation. Management acknowledges that, inhind-



                                              9

CambodiaForest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


sight, it overestimated the Government's commitment to the successful implementation
of the project. Management further recognizes that the project could have done more to
involve local communities and IndigenousPeoples invarious aspects o f the project (e.g.,
design, preparation, outreach, implementation), per the requirements o f the Sub-Decree
(for more information, see section below on safeguards).

LendingInstrument

28.      ThePanel states that the main aim of the loan was to support a legal and regula-
tory program on the basis of which long-term concessions were to be granted. ThePanel
considers that the project cannot easily be regarded as a "learning and hypothesis-
testing" exercise. ThePanel adds that elements conditioning use of LIL instrument do not
apply convincingly to the project. The Panel states that LILs may not be appropriate
when policy framework is poor and Borrower commitment and ownership especially
weak, The Panel considers that these two conditions were present at time of design of
project andprovidefurther indication of problems of using a LIL as aframework for the
project.

29.      Management considered that, given the risks, a LILwould allow the Bank to en-
gage inthe forest sector in Cambodia, learn valuable lessons about forestry management,
and still allow for an explicit exit option. A technical assistance loan, which would have
allowed for a longer and more detailed preparation process, was another option for an
approach that was less "pilot" innature and, inhindsight, may have been more effective
inaddressingtheparticularly challenging circumstances oftheproject.

30.      At the time the project was being considered, LILswere a relatively new instru-
ment. Management considered the LILan appropriate instrument to address the Govern-
ment's request for urgent Bank assistance in forestry concession management, allowing
the Bank to engage inthe regulatory aspects o f the forestry sector without undertaking a
riskier investment operation. The project would thus pilot promising approaches and ini-
tiatives; it would also help assess the Borrower's capacity to develop locally based mod-
 els for development-through     consultations with stakeholders-that    could be scaled up.
 The LIL was risky, but, given its relatively small size (USD 5 million) and simpler exit
 strategy, it was seen as more manageable than an investment credit..

 EnvironmentalCategorizationofthe Project

 31.     ThePanel states that given the very serious potential impacts, and close associa-
 tion of theproject with these impacts, theproject should have beenplaced in Category A,
 and afull EA should have been carried out. Byfailing to do this, the Panelfinds that the
Bank did not comply with OP 4.01.

 32.     Management carefully considered the appropriate environmental categorization o f
 the project, given its broader impact, and sought guidance based on the operational poli-
 cies and best practice. The Bank decided to classify FCMCPP as a Category B project
 because the project provided technical assistance to improve the management o f forest
 concessions. It also proposed specific interventions, such as providing technical assis-



                                             10

                                                         Management Report and Recommendation


tance to develop improved planning and inventory management systems, strengthening
Borrower capacity for concession regulation andcontrol, and forest crime monitoring and
prevention. The project design anticipated that management plans and environmental im-
pact assessments would be prepared addressing specific sites, once they were identified,
consistent with Bankpractice.

33.     The choice o f Category B for this project took into account the project's potential
impact on sites yet to be identified and was consistent with the classification o f other
similar forestry technical assistance projects. Given the range o f issues identified with
respect to the classification o f projects, including technical assistance projects, the Qual-
ity Assurance and Compliance Unit (QACU) issued "Guidelines for Environmental
Screening and Classification" in December 2005. Management will review the Guide-
lines and update them to provide additional guidance on classification and appropriate
safeguards methodology for technical assistance projects concerning natural resources
management, including the use o f Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEAS) andpro-
cedures for the preparation and review o f environmental documentation for subprojects.
(see SectionVI, Lessons Learned).

Environmental and Social SafeguardIssues

34.     ThePanel states that theproject's design created a structure likely to lead to in-
adequate levels of local involvement, community consultations, and social and environ-
mental assessments (OPs 4.01 and 4.36). ThePanelfinds that the PAD and other project
documents did not contain adequate analysis of environmental issues; theproject design
and planning did not adequately recognize the existence of natural habitats (OP 4.04);
and there was no social assessment. ThePanelfinds that the illegal logging of resin trees
has had major negative consequenceson the Requesters and local people; an assessment
or inventory of resin trees should have been part of a proper EA and should have been
the subject of a participatory survey and inventory at an early stage of the project, per
the requirements of OPs 4.01 and 4.36. ThePanel states that theproject should have in-
cluded an IPDP,per OD 4.20. ThePanel states that there also was inadequateprotection
of spiritforests, per the requirements of OPN11.03.

35.     The serious environmental and social implications o f logging operations were
well known to the Bank before the project was approved. The project aimed to address
these impacts by ensuring that forest harvesting proposals and management plans in-
cluded assessments o f environmental and social impacts. Some o f this work required a
level o f effort and technical capacity that could not have been achieved during prepara-
tion (e.g., an inventory o f resin trees) and was, therefore, made integral to implementa-
tion. Management recognizes that the concessionaires' ESIAs were o f poor quality and
provided little additional information and analysis. Management also acknowledges that
the project would have benefited from better information-gathering about areas o f high
ecological importance, a social assessment, andmore focused public consultations during
preparation that would have captured issues such as the indiscriminate logging o f resin
trees, andthat the project didnot fully comply with the Bank's policy on Indigenous Peo-
ples.




                                                11

CambodiaForest ConcessionManagement and Control PilotProject



36.     The Government o f Cambodia had virtually no environmental or social safe-
guards measures inplace and little capacity to monitor and mitigate the widespread im-
pacts o f logging practices. The project aimed to address these shortcomings through en-
suring that site-specific forest management plans and forest harvesting proposals were
prepared, assessing environmental and social impacts; and ensuringthat the Government
had adequate capacity and procedures for reviewing and monitoring compliance with the
plans and proposals. The project's focus on reforming the concession management sys-
tem included measures to introduce regulations and procedures to significantly enhance
the consideration of environmentaland social issues inconcession management planning.
Box 1outlines the design o f project support to the development o f community consulta-
tion guidelines.

                        Box 1. Draft Community Consultation Guidelines

andThe   Forest Concession Managementand Control Pilot Project (FCMCPP) aimed at "testing
     demonstrating, through implementation, a comprehensive set of forest planning and man-
agement guidelines and control procedures and establishing an effective forest management
compliance monitoring and enforcementcapability."
    Among the sets of guidelineswas the PlanningHandbook,which recommendedthat a sepa-
rate and specific document be prepared with regard to the social issues of the Forest Conces-
sion planning process in order to makethe process comprehensive.
    At the national level, there was a strong consensus among the FA, the donors and the NGO
communitythat the needs and concerns of the local communitieswho mainly depend on the for-
est must be integrated into forest management planning. Forest-based livelihoods and cultural
values need to be protected and communities should benefit from any commercial use of their
forests.
    The FA and the World Bank therefore began developing an applicable procedure of Com-
munity Consultations in Forest Management Planning for Cambodia and started to train related
stakeholders. The community consultation guidelines seek to provide a step-by-step approach,
which will enable all partners to follow the process. The purpose of this document is clearly for
the benefit and use of FA agents, concessionaires' staff, local communities and all other stake-
holderswho will be involved in any kind of forest management planning process in Cambodia.
    The guidelines explain the participatory approach to forest management planning, describe
the role of facilitators, lay out the community consultation procedure step by step, and address
mediation and possibilitiesfor conflict resolutionand the role and support of "third parties."



37.     Management recognizes that safeguard aspects o f project preparation could have
been strengthened. For example, the state o f knowledge regarding areas o f high ecologi-
cal importance could have been better documented as part o f the environmental review o f
the project. The Government also would have benefited from more explicit guidance on
management plans that took into account both production and conservation objectives.
SEAScould have been useful in providing more information on the baseline environ-
mental context for proposed forest concessions.

38.     Project preparationwas constrained by the urgency all partners felt for the project
to be operational and increase capacity to manage and control concessions. Inretrospect,
a focused Social Assessment, specific to the project, at the time o f preparation, would
have benefited the project. For example, an assessment summarizing social issues inthe
forestry sector would have been able to assess the indiscriminate logging o f resin trees


                                             ,   12

                                                                       Management Report and Recommendation


and its impact on local communities3 However, a detailed pre-project inventory o f resin
trees and site-specific surveys for all concessions would not have been feasible. Such in-
ventories were to be included inthe ESIAs, but as explained above, the ESIAs prepared
by concessionaires for Government consideration andpublic comment turned out to be o f
poor quality, containing little data and weak analysis (see also para. 45). Management
acknowledges that the Bank was not infillcompliance with OD 4.20 andthat Wher dis-
cussions on how to address Indigenous Peoples should have taken place during project
preparation. The Bank will continue dialogue with the Government on the legal frame-
work for indigenous and customary rights over forest resources (see Action Plan).4With
respect to cultural property, the Community Consultation Guidelines will explicitly refer
to the legal framework in Cambodia and provide guidance regarding archaeological
"chance finds."

39.      There was some public consultation duringproject preparation, mostly inthe form
of information dissemination and outreach. The Bank insisted, with some success, that
consultations take place during all levels o f planningto identify and protect community
resources. The Bank also encouraged and facilitated efforts to improve the quality and
impact o f consultations related to forestry law. In hindsight, more focused feedback on
project design andprovisions would have been desirable from selected key stakeholders,
including representative local communities potentially affected by the project. This
would have helped clarify opportunities and challenges inherent inthe implementation o f
the Government's proposed system, facilitated more explicit understanding o f Indigenous
Peoples' concerns, and identified possible measures to avoid potential adverse social im-
pacts andenhance benefits5

B.       PROJECT       IMPLEMENTATION

ConcessionPlanning

40.       The Panel notes that suspension of issuance of loggingpermits to remaining con-
cession companies, until approval of new forest concession management plan consistent
with laws and regulations, was a significant event. The Panel adds that the Bank's par-
ticipation in discussions about mechanisms to allow logs already cut to be transported to
processing plants was appropriate and consistent with policy. The Panel states that su-
pervision of the Borrower's actions related to the log transport ban could have been bet-
ter pe$ormed to ascertain whether the Borrower implemented the project with due dili-
gence. The Panelfurther states that the Bankfailed to consider and investigate numerous
complaints of harm due to cutting local resin trees.


  Duringimplementation, the Bank supporteddetailedstudiesbyWCS onresin tapping(see Annex 5).
'ForMarch2006,
      excerpt fromthe draft ConsultationGuidelines, refer to footnote 4, underItem 12 ofAnnex 1.
  In              Managementauthorizeda community consultationassessmentto facilitate learning from the experi-
ence of communityconsultationunder the project and as an input to the ImplementationCompletion Report. The as-
sessmentreviewedthe processand outcomesof communityconsultations inthree concessionareas and confirmedthat
consultationwas inadequateinmany respectsand also inconsistent with the governing Sub-Decree on ForestConces-
sion Management.For example, in sampledvillages there was no indication that independent consultationteams were
formed or participated in organizing or implementing the consultations (although this was called for in the Sub-
Decree); most village level meetingswere one-timeevents (with no follow-up); and CommunityConsultationCommit-
tees (required under the Sub-Decree) were establishedinless than 20 percentof sampledvillages.



                                                          13

CambodiaForest ConcessionManagementand Control Pilot Project


41.      Management notes the Panel's comment regarding the suspension o f issuing log-
gingpermits andthe Bank's participationindiscussions about transporting cut logs. Pro-
ject supervision on all aspects, including logging, was intensive, and the Bank was exten-
sively engaged with the Government in addressing overexploitation o f forest resources,
including resin trees. The Government order to suspend logging remains in effect and no
concessions are currently operating inCambodia.

42.      InNovember 2001, a Bank supervision mission advised the Government on a
draft Prakas (a regulation or Ministerial order) on enforcement of the planningand other
requirements of the Sub-Decree. In December 2001, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
andFisheries (MAFF) issued a Prakas suspending logging and log transportation for con-
cessions that were not hlly incompliance with the requirements o f the Sub-Decree as o f
January 1, 2002. The Prakas created a much needed incentive for concessionaires to
comply with their management planningobligations and simultaneously contributed to a
reduction inthe scale of both legal and illegal logging associated with the concessions.

43.      The Prakas remains in effect, a marked contrast to the essentially uncontrolled
operations that were routinely approved prior to the project. Illegal logging is known to
have occurred, however, and is likely continuing within ongoing concession areas, can-
celled concessions, parks and Protected Areas and inother forested areas. Landclearance
inareas slated byGovernment for conversion throughitspolicies of"economic landcon-
 cessions" also involves logging andcommercial extraction.

44.       The Bank was actively engaged with the Government and communities on the
issue of protecting and managing resin trees, for example, in encouraging the Govern-
ment to enforce its laws andregulations with respect to those concessionaires who were
not complying with their contracts. Inhindsight, a more categorical ban on cutting trees
may have been appropriate. Resin trees are addressed in the draft Community Consulta-
 tion Guidelines (see Box 1above), which the Bank has offered to assist the Government
 to finalize.

 45.      Duringthis time, concessionaires have pursuedplanning and forest management
 at their own cost and risk. Although management planning guidance and proper incen-
 tives are inplace, concessionaires have failed to prepare SFMPs that are consistent with
 their obligations under Cambodian law and applicable policies. As a result the process of
 concession reform has stalled in recent years. The Bank has repeatedly urged the Gov-
 ernment of Cambodia to: enforce its rights in conformity with existing contracts; protect
 its interests under current contracts; and establish a robust system for planning, manage-
 ment,andprotectiono fpost-concession areas.

 ManagingSFMPIESIAPreparation,SubmissionandDisclosure

 46.      The Panel recognizes that some Management and staff consistently pressed the
 Government to improve theplanning process and topress concessionaires to conform to
 guidelines for preparing SFMPs. The Panel confirms that technical assistance was pro-
 vided to the FA, not companies. In the Panel's view, however, Bank supervision was in-
 adequate. The Panel considers that SFMPs and ESIAs were deficient in almost all re-



                                              14

                                                                        Management Report and Recommendation


gards, from process to content. The Panel states that SFMPs and ESIAs are especially
inadequate because they did not ensure that: local communities would not be adversely
affected by project-supported activities; appropriate consultation occurred; appropriate
and effective environmental guidelines were in place; and concession operations could
be carried out to achieve long-term sustainable managementof Cambodia'sforests.

47.       Management concurs with the Panel's observations regardingthe multiple defi-
ciencies found in SFMPs and ESIAs preparedby concessionaires. Indeed, the Bank has
registered its concerns with the Government that none o f the SFMPs/ESIAs provide a
satisfactory basis for continuing with planningor operations. The Bank has been actively
andconsistently involved inadvising the Government on the overall framework provided
to concessionaires regarding their planningand development o f SFMPdESIAs. The Bank
has also insisted that the SFMPdESIAs be disclosed, thus strengthening the Govern-
ment's accountability with respect to their review.

48.       At the core of theproject hasbeenthe Government's establishment o fa system to
guide preparationand review o f a sequence o f concessionaire forest management propos-
a h 6 Under Cambodian regulations, concessionaires are required to prepare and submit
25 year SFMPsESIAs for review, consideration and approval by FA, MAFF and MOE.
Following delays, draft SFMPs and ESIAs were made public in November 2002, with
provision for public comment. The Bank made its Public Information Center in Phnom
Penh available for disclosure and monitored distribution o f copies to provincial and
commune offices. In2003, the FCMCPP concluded its first technical reviews o f the con-
cessionaire plans and solicited comments from the Forestry and Environment Technical
Working Group of the Consultative Group (TWG).

49.       Inassociation with the TWG, the Bank contracted an independent consultant,
GFA Terra Systems, to consider the Technical Review Team (TRT) reviews, focusing on
six concession plans that were recommendedby the TRT to advance to the compartment
(5 year) planning level. Between August 2004 and August 2005 GFA provided detailed
reviews o f all six concession SFMPs and ESIAs and suggested significant additional
work in all cases. Results o f the GFA review were shared with MAFF, concessionaires,
other donors and civil society. On the basis o f the GFA reviews and consistent with the
Development Credit Agreement, the Bankprovided comments to Government in a letter
issued inNovember 2005 (see Annex 4). Inthe November letter, the Bank advised Gov-
ernment to demand appropriate performance from concessionaires, to enforce relevant
Cambodian laws, to hlly exercise its rights under the existing contracts (including any
rightithadto terminate them), andto bringthe unsatisfactorysituation to a quick conclu-
sion. To date, no concession operations have been approved, but neither has Government
cancelled any additional concessions. Concessionaires have expressed uncertainty about
proceedingwith further planningor consultations until Government's intentions are made
clear.




 Forest management planning has been designed as a three-tiered system covering 25 year (strategic), 5 year (com-
partment), and one year (annual, or coupe) intervals. At each ofthe three tiers the planningprocess is intended to assess
social, economic andbiophysical viability.



                                                           15

Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement and ControlPilot Project



50.     The unequal power relations between concession staff and local communities
were among the key social issues recognized duringproject preparation and noted inthe
PAD. Responsibility for consulting with affected communities (including Indigenous
Peoples) was governed by Cambodian legislation (Sub-Decree on Forest Concession
Management) and concession contracts. As previously mentioned, these laws and con-
tracts require concessionaires to develop proposals addressing all aspects o f forest man-
agement, including social issues, and to seek Government approval before proceeding to
the next level ofplanningor operations.

51.     During the period o f plan preparation, the Bank insisted on disclosure o f draft
SFMPs and ESIAs, creating an opportunity for the first time for public comment and
scrutiny o f concession proposals. Followingpublic disclosure, the FA received substan-
tial public comments from numerous stakeholders, including community groups and
NGOs. Management believes that this served to enforce the accountability o f Govern-
ment regarding its diligence in SFMPESIA review. As noted previously, the Govern-
ment has not permitted any concessionaire to proceed to operations and the Panel has
confirmed that the Bank has not endorsed any concession plans.

Forest Crime Monitoring

52.      ThePanel notes the importance of having an Independent Monitor, which was a
project objective. The Panel is concerned, however, that provisions of the Terms of Ref-
erence (TOR) preventing the monitor from independently initiatingJield investigations,
and making the release of the monitor's report subject to Government veriJication, con-
flict with the objective stated in the PAD of having "an independent monitor toprovide a
check on the accuracy of Government reporting." The Panel observes that information
about SGS was readily available from various sources at the time that SGS was ap-
pointed. However, the Panel could not find in the project documents any evaluation or
discussion on whether SGSfu@lls the criteria related to independencefor an independ-
entforest monitor. This is not consistent with OP 13.05.

53.     Management concurs with the Panel on the importance o f an independent moni-
tor, and the Bank did advise the Government on ways to ensure the independence and
transparency o fthe position.

54.     For manyproject stakeholders, inparticular the Bank, NGOs and concessionaires,
one of the most difficult issues was forest crime. While some progress had been made
under very difficult conditions to address illegal logging, the Government's approach in
dealing with an independent monitor was problematic. Global Witness, the first Inde-
pendent Monitor, was supported by the parallel F A O W P project on forest crime
monitoring and reporting. However, the FA0 project was unable to deliver because o f
numerous disputes about contracts, reporting, access to information, and Government en-
dorsements. InDecember 2001,a Bank supervision missionnoted that the problems FA0
was encountering in delivering assistance were a major obstacle to moving forward with
the FA0 project, the FCMCPP, and reform. An FA0 review mission in early 2002 rein-
forced these observations andprovisions were made for additional technical assistance up
to the close o fthe FA0project inDecember 2002.



                                             16

                                                       Management Report and Recommendation


55.     Inthe aftermath of a December 2002 incidentbetweenpolice anda group of for-
est-affected communities (who were petitioningFA officials to discuss recently disclosed
management plans) and other allegations o f humanrights abuses leveled by Global Wit-
ness, the Government announced that it would no longer recognize Global Witness as the
Independent Monitor and requested donor assistanceinmakingalternative arrangements.
When no other donors were available to support an alternative, the Bank, after consulta-
tion with members o f the TWG and others, proceeded with the Government's request to
select a new Monitor through an international competitive process using proceeds o f
FCMCPP. Ultimately, inNovember 2003, the Government awarded a commercial enter-
prise, SGS, a contract as Independent Monitor.

56.     The Bank,per its procedures, issuedno objections to the TOR for the Independent
Monitor, the shortlist, and the bid evaluation report. The appointment has been met with
opposition fi-om some NGOs, who believe that the Bank, as well as other donors, aban-
doned key principles by acceding to the Government's request. As part o f its regular su-
pervision process, the Bank has beenreviewing the performance and independence o f the
Independent Monitor. A recent Bank mission (March 2006) also reviewed forest law en-
forcement and governance more broadly with the Cambodian authorities. The mission
examined the TOR for the Independent Monitor and recommended changes to ensure
greater independence, and new reporting arrangements to ensure increased transparency
andavoid conflict o finterest.

Forest Cover Survey

57.     The Panel, while recognizing the limitations of the forest cover survey's short
timeperiod for the work, short period of supervision by an international consultant, lim-
itedjkancial resources, and the inherent problems with carrying out this type of survey,
deems that there is suficient evidence to suggest that work was not carried out to the
standards expectedfor such an exercise. Supervision of theforest cover survey was in-
adequate.

58.     Management notes the Panel's findings concerning the forest cover survey. The
forest cover survey addressed a range o f technical issues, employed valid methodologies
for analysis, was carefblly supervised by the Bank and was considered technically sound
bybothBankandexternalindependent experts.

59.     To respond to concerns that had been raisedby NGOs and others about the possi-
bility that changes inforest area and conditions might have significantly undermined the
management potential of large areas o f forest, the Bankin2002 urged the Government to
undertake an update of forest cover data as a contribution to the Mid-Term Review
(MTR). The FA proposed assigning this work to its Remote Sensing Unit with interna-
tional technical assistance provided by the PHRD Grant. The Bank arranged for external
reviews o fthe TOR andproposedmethodology andprovided its non-objection.

60.     The Forest Cover Survey (Department o f Forestry and Wildlife [DFW], 2003e,
"Trends in Land Cover Changes Detection between 1996/1997 and 2002 by Remote
Sensing Analysis") was prepared by the FA with assistance fi-oma qualified international



                                             17

CambodiaForest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project


consultant. The study aimedto provide current information about recent landcover trends
as a basis for discussion o f forest management issues nationwide, including estimation o f
areas affected by logging and other recent disturbance. The technical report described the
approach and methodology, the extent o f ground truthing o f the satellite imagery and the
results of that ground tr~thing.~          It provided detailed maps o f forest cover, forest cover
changes and tabular estimates o f changes by major forest type for each concession and
each park and Protected Area inCambodia. To estimate the degree to which logging was
occurring, the study used the extent o f road development as a surrogate measure. The
study concluded that trends in forest cover loss over the period 1996/1997 to 2002 pro-
ceeded at a rate o f 0.5 percent to 1.2 percent with loss o f evergreen and semi-evergreen
forest o f around 325,000 hectares (1 percent for these forest types). These results raised
controversy among some stakeholders who expected higher rates o f loss andwho became
concerned over political uses o f study results. No alternative studies have been conducted
to dispute the results or to challenge the methodology andtechnique.

61.      Supervision o f the Forest Cover Survey included Bank sponsorship o f workshops
and consultations on methodology and study design and presentation o f preliminary re-
sults. Bank technical specialists and independent experts were asked to review study de-
sign and assess the validity o f image interpretation technique and data analysis and pres-
entation, including use o f adjustment factors applied to the estimated deciduous forest
area. Specialists viewed the approach employed as a valid sensitivity analysis that was
appropriately described and documented inthe survey report and which didnot affect the
value of the estimates o f evergreen and semi-evergreen cover.

 Stakeholder Engagement

62.      ThePanel states that project supervision should have aimed at ensuring that the
unraveling of relationships which became apparent during the early years of the pro-
ject's implementation was addressed explicitly and quickly; theproject should have had
the capacity to develop a broadly based constituency embracing donors, Government and
NGOs to advanceforest sector reform.

 63.     Management believes that good faith efforts were made to maintain relationships
 and open communication with various partners throughout project implementation, al-
though there were strong differences o f opinion among the stakeholders on project focus
 and consultation processes. Management agrees that more direct engagement by Bank
 staff in social aspects o f forest management planning could have helped gain broader
 support for the project and sectoral reform process. The Bank's participation inthe Inde-
pendent Forest Sector Review (IFSR) process was an effort to encourage other donors to
take greater leadership roles.

 64.     The Bank began its work in forestry in Cambodia in a collaborative mode, work-
 ing closely with other donors and in close consultation with civil society. Work that led
up to the project was harrnonized with related ADB efforts on concession management

 'Of 88 ground truthing points, 67 (76%) matched with the image interpretationresults. Misclassifications were all
 among the deciduous, other forest and non-forest categories. No errors were ddtectedwithin the evergreen and semi-
 evergreentypes.



                                                         18

                                                       Management Report and Recommendation


reforms, and the planning guidelines that were developed with ADB support were
adopted as the basis o f the FCMCPP program. Work on forest law enforcement grew di-
rectly out o f Global Witness involvement in the earlier technical assistance studies and
the FCMCPP component anticipated ongoing Global Witness involvement and co-
financing with FA0 and UNDP, based on United Kingdom and Australian resources.
Workshops and discussions involving Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS), World
Wildlife Fund (WWF), Tropical Forest Trust (TFT) and others were supported by the
Bank and, insome cases, ledto grant finance o fcomplementary activities.

65.       Forestry reform was painfully slow, and the Bank, other donors working on the
sector, and NGOs were frequently fkustrated with the lack o f progress on the part o f the
FA. Members o f the Working Group on Natural Resources Management and the NGOs
often disagreed among themselves and with each other over the differing approaches to
forestry reform. These tensions eventually affected progress on forest sector reforms and
law enforcement systems, contributed to the breakdown o f collaborationbetween FA and
Global Witness, and deepened the mistrust and lack o f confidence o f many NGOs and
others inthe Government's commitment to reform. Physical attacks on NGOs andreports
o f force used to disperse community petitioners were noted with great concern by the
Bank,which expressed its disapprovalto the Government.

66.       Inan effort to help lessen controversy and tension, the Bank and other members
o fthe TWG initiated inMarch2003 an IFSR, to provide a fresh look at the entire forestry
sector. The IFSR report' (2004) provided a potentialbasis for a constructive dialogue and
offered a large number o f recommendations, including some with a direct bearing on the
FCMCPP and the Panel's concerns over community issues, Indigenous Peoples' land
rights, and biodiversity. One specific IFSR recommendationwas to close the forest con-
cession system and to move toward a system o f local government control over forest re-
sources decision making, referred to as "Partnership Forestry." The Bank noted that the
IFSR provided a potential basis for constructive dialogue on forestry in Cambodia. On
the "Partnership Forestry" concept, the Banknoted issues inneed o f fbrther policy analy-
sis and development, including allocation o f land to Protected Areas and other uses,
community forestry policy, other mechanisms for public timber sales, forest law en-
forcement andadministrative arrangements for the sector.

67.       Despitethe atmosphere o f tension andconflict, several bilateral donors andNGOs
have also continued to work and collaborate closely with the FA-for        example, Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA), United Kingdom Department for Inter-
national Development (DFID), Government o f Japan, WCS,Conservation International
(CI), and WildAid-but the Bank's high profile and explicit effort to help address con-
cession issueshave drawn considerable attentionand criticism.

Adequacyof Supervision

68.
if theproject
          The Panel states that many issues raised by the Requesters might not have arisen
                had received better supervision. The Panel commends Managementfor rec-


  http://www.cambodia-forest-sector.net



                                              19

Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project


ognizing the existence of signijkant problems and doing a Quality Enhancement Review
(QER). ThePanel also appreciates Management's efforts to identifL lessons learned and
considers that this effort contributes constructively topromoting effective design and im-
plementation of developmentprojects.

69.     Management notes the Panel's commendations regarding the Bank's efforts to
address the project's challenges and identify lessons learned. As stated earlier, the project
was carefully supervised, not only by senior technical experts inthe field, but by the re-
gional management and the Bank's senior management. The project's supervision ratings
on both development objectives and implementation progress reflected Management's
concerns about project performance and development impact.

70.     From approval o f the project in June 2000 to Closing in December 2005, Bank
staff conducted eleven formal supervision missions, including the 2003 MTR. The Bank
also held a QERof Bank-wide experts in2003 to provide guidance on the complex issues
facing the project. Inaddition, there were specifically organizedworkshops and consulta-
tions that included policy dialogues with key stakeholders through the TWG. One notable
workshop took place on October 9, 2003, where donors, civil society, international
NGOs, various ministries, and a sizeable Bank delegation participated. The workshop
resultedina recommendation that the Bank should remain engagedinthe forestry sector.

71.     Overall, the project was intensively supervised by the country and project team
and received management attention not only from the Country and Sector management
but also from East Asia and the Pacific ( E M ) regional and senior management as well.
The current status and outcome o f the project i s certainly not due to a lack o f effort or
level o f engagement by the team and Management. Inaddition, the Task Team Leader
was based in a neighboring country during the preparation and early implementation pe-
riod o f the project, and in Cambodia from August 2002 until December 2003. This al-
lowed regular on-time and face-to-face communication with the Government, donors, and
other partners. A senior technical Bank specialist participated in numerous supervision
missions andprovided support on environmental and social issues.

72.     During implementation, supervision ratings reflected the concerns o f the Task
Team and Management about faltering project performance and diminishing prospects
for lasting development impact. As the FA was implementing a World Bank project for
the first time, the early work o f the project revolved around establishment o f the project
implementation organization, selection and mobilization o f technical assistance and lim-
itedprocurement of supplies and equipment, and overall results were considered satisfac-
tory over the first two years of implementation. As explained earlier, significant problems
were first observed in the Forest Crime Monitoring and Prevention Component in the
first halfo f 2002 andwere considered largely a reflection o f difficulties encountered with
delivery o f technical assistance from the FAO/UNDP project, which, while beyond the
control o f either the FA or the Bank, was having serious negative impact. Despite other
concerns, which were noted and discussed with FA, the overall ratings were based on
substantial progress in mobilizing technical advisers and in agreements reached in June
2002 to publicly disclose draft SFMPs and ESIAs.




                                              20

                                                                    Management Report and Recommendation


73.      Duringthe balance of 2002, conditions seriously deteriorated and were reflected
inadowngrading of the projectratings for bothdevelopment objectives andimplementa-
tion progress to "unsatisfactory." The FA'Sreversal on disclosure o f SFMPS (corrected in
October 2002) andits plan to deviate from the requirement that concessionaires prepare 5
year compartment plans subsequent to the 25 year SFMP, the violent incident involving
villagers at the FA Headquarters inDecember 2002, and the break inindependent moni-
toring that arose fiom Government's decision to drop recognition o f Global Witness were
among the major reasons for lowered ratings for development objectives and implemen-
tation progress, which continueduntilDecember 2003                  .'
74.      The Government undertook the MTR o f the project in February 2003 (DFW,
20039. The MTR recognized serious problems that had arisen during implementation,
suggested that the FA redouble its efforts to utilize project resources and proposed ex-
panded use of project resources for forest concession control, forest law enforcement
work, and reinstatement o f compartment-level planning, which the Government had
abandoned. The MTR highlighted the lack o f trust and credibility that was facing the FA
andproposed establishment o f a Public Affairs Unitunder the project. Duringthe MTR,
the FA also suggested an arrangement for the resumption o f logging. The Bank advised
against this ina Management Letter from the Rural Sector Director to the FA Director on
M a y 21,2003.

75.      At the request of the Bank's EAP Region, a QERwas organized by the Quality
Assurance Group in October 2003. The QER was conducted by senior Bank managers
and technical specialists with wide experience inforestry and natural resources inseveral
regions, including EAP. Key findings included the challenges affecting the pace o f re-
form, the Bank's own difficulties             inpreparing a coherent strategy, not only to address
concession management, but also independent monitoring, community forestry, and envi-
ronmental protection; and the role of lending, including conditionality, in addressing the
forest governance agenda.

76.      The QERrecommended extending the Closing Date o f the Credit and using the
remaining funds to carry out aerial and field surveys to verify the current status o f forest
lands and establish a clear baseline for additional work; analyze options for non-
concession land use; carry out a participatory Implementation completion Report (ICR)
to work with stakeholders to develop a consensus around next steps; and maintain pres-
sure on concession reform. The results o f the QER were discussed at a workshop with
donors, NGOs and the Government in Phnom Penh inNovember 2003, when the Bank
consulted stakeholders prior to releasing the final tranche o f the SAC and extending the
project.

77.      InDecember 2003 the development objectives rating was upgraded to "satisfac-
torf' inview of the restoration o f an independent monitoring arrangement, agreement by
FA to reinstate the compartment planning requirement, and agreement on a partial re-
structuring to incorporate activities onpost-concession management to be implemented in


  The supervision ratings for the SAC were also downgraded inAugust 2002 and May-November 2003, due to forestry
issues and one other issue.



                                                       21

      Table 1.SupervisionCosts(`050)
Source    I 2002    2Q03 2004    2OQS 7"
BB      35     23      39  120    I12   329
TF      41     113     37    Q      0   190
Total   75     136     76  720    112   519

                                                        Management Report and Recommendation



sions that have not yet been formally cancelled. It has strongly conveyed its concern to
the Government about the fate o f forests andlandresources following concession cancel-
lation andhas highlightedthe urgentneed to establish a robust systemfor planning,man-
agement andprotection o fpost-concession areas.

                               VI.    LESSONSLEARNED

81.     Management has reflected on the experience with implementation of FCMCPP
and has identified a number of lessons that will be important for the Bank's future dia-
logue in Cambodia on natural resources management (NRM) issues as well as inthe de-
sign o f future operations. These lessons may also have applicability inNRMand forestry
operations more generally in the region. The lessons identified here have been reflected
inthe proposedManagement Action Plan.

    e   Effective NRM Governance.Corruption and conflict have impededprogress inthe
        NRM sector. The contribution to governance of work on forestry concession re-
        form can be valuable because it involves a wide range o f complex technical, so-
        cial and institutional variables and actors. Projects and technical assistance inthe
        NRMsector shouldbeparticularly diligent inemphasizing transparency, account-
        ability, effective monitoring, and sound dispute resolutionmechanisms. Efforts to
         strengthen the capacity o f the central Government to manage natural resources
         should be complemented by similar efforts at the local level.

    e   Assessing Government Commitment and Implementation Capacity. It is difficult
        to measure Government commitment to sustainable forestry. The project experi-
        ence demonstrated that commitment was incomplete and not shared across the
        range of Government agencies and this led to delays and contributed to contro-
        versy and criticism. A step-wise and phased approach, which monitors perfonn-
         ance inrelation to knowncapacity to deliver, is a practical andpragmatic strategy
         for dealingwith uncertainty.

         Shared Vision and Engagement with Other Stakeholders. Inprojects that address
        NRMissues, it is important to map stakeholders' varying and, at times, conflict-
         ing interests and engage them early and throughout implementation. Advisory
         groups could be useful for ongoing feedback and guidance. Interactions with
         stakeholders should be managed with great care-ensuring       expectations are clear,
        materials are available early and in an appropriate format, neutral facilitators are
         employed if needed, and existing mechanisms such as technical working groups
         are used for ongoing dialogue with a range o f stakeholders.

    e   Role of Local Communities, including Consultations with Affected Communities.
         The Bank should play a proactive role in encouraging early and sustained in-
         volvement o f local communities in project design and implementation. Inretro-
         spect, many crucial issues might have been more effectively addressed at an ear-
         lier stage-overlapping claims on timberhesin trees, lack o f effective concession-
         aire controls over subcontractors, restriction o f access to livelihood resources-
         lowering tensions and apprehensions on all side and speeding the process o f re-



                                             23

Cambodia Forest Concession Management and ControlPilot Project


      form. When project implementation involves community consultation, the Bank
      should work with the implementing agency to ensure appropriate identification of
      affected communities, the associated area o f impact and appropriate third parties
      (free from conflict o f interest) to carry out environmental and social impact as-
      sessments. Mechanisms for monitoring compliance with planned consultation
      procedures should also be agreed in advance, and results o f monitoring efforts
      should be made publicly available.

   0  Ensuring Donor Coordination and Integrated Approaches. Forestryprograms and
      donor support need to be well positioned within a broader NRM framework that
      recognizes inter-linkages across forests, biodiversity protection, agricultural land,
      water, fisheries and other landuses. The Bank does not need to be a principal do-
      nor inall o fthese areas, but needs to work with the Government, other donors and
      NGOs to ensure that the inter-sectoral linkages in policy and management com-
      plementarities and tradeoffs are generally acknowledged, and that sufficient sup-
      port is being provided to ensure the integrity o f the overall management frame-
      work.

   0  Promoting Environmental and Social Safeguards. Under conditions where there is
       a limited history o f applying environmental and social safeguards, the Bank
       should work with the Government to identify opportunities for mainstreaming
       safeguard issues and approaches into national guidelines, procedures and legal
       frameworks where appropriate. For example, the Bank is continuing its dialogue
      with the Government on the legal framework for indigenous andcustomary rights
      to forest resources. Where there are capacity issues the Bank should adopt a step-
      wise approach toward progressive, incremental improvements and monitor pro-
       gress.

   0  Independent Monitoring. The role of an independent monitor is particularly de-
      manding.For independent monitoring to be successful, it is important that the in-
       dependent monitor i s technically qualified, professional, and willing to pursue
      rigorously matters within the mandate o fthe position. A major challenge is ensur-
       ing the right level o f independence, and objectively including clarity on how the
       independent monitor i s contracted andbywhom.

   0  Proactive Communications Strategy. Clear, consistent communications are essen-
      tial inchallenging governance environments. Teams should first clarify the formal
       linkbetweencommunications, political analysis, andoperational decisions to en-
       sure external information and questions are fed back into operational decision
      making. The implementation o f a communications strategy that is discussed and
       endorsed by the entire project team-and      shared with the larger country team-is
       essential. The strategy should include: a proactive disclosure policy (including
      press briefings at agreed intervals); mechanisms to promptly identify and correct
       errors and misperceptions; and plans and resources to translate information into
       local language anddisseminate it through a variety o fmedia.




                                             24

                                                        Management Report and Recommendation



    0  Role of Private Sector. Experience with private sector concessionaires was disap-
       pointing; it suggests the difficulty o f identifying and providing appropriate sup-
       port to firms; and underlines the significance o f avoiding Bank interference in
       specific commercial transactions and ongoing contractual relations o f Govern-
       ment. Modest investments by some concessionaires in good technical advice
       could have delivered quality plans and credible agreements at the local level that
       would have garnered public support rather than opposition. The Bank in collabo-
       ration with the TWG should support Government efforts to identifyopportunities
       for responsible private sector enterprises. The Bank and TWG also should con-
       sider supporting analytical work to highlightpositive global experience with pub-
       lic-private partnerships, focusing on socially, environmentally, and economically
       sustainable forest management, such as the guidelines and procedures emerging
       from the Extractive IndustriesReview.

                        VII. MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN

82.    This section i s divided into two parts: The first, Specific Actions, addressesmeas-
ures arising specifically from the project and broader institutional actions that Manage-
ment could apply to other similar projects inthe Bank. The second part, Approach Mov-
ing Forward: NRMFramework, outlines a longer-term approach to dealing with forestry
andother naturalresources inCambodia.

A.      SPECIFIC  ACTIONS

83.     The project raised a number o f important issues related to its design, analytical
tools, and environmental and social assessment, which the Paneladdressed inits findings.
Drawing from lessons learned and specific commitments that could be undertaken, even
though the project has closed, Management proposes to do the following (a) across the
Bankand(b)withinthe Region(EAP):

    Across the Bank:

    0   Review and update the "Guidelines for Environmental Screening and Classifica-
        tion" issued by QACU in 2005 to provide additional guidance on classification
        and appropriate methods o f undertaking environmental and social safeguard re-
        lated actions in technical assistance projects. This would include guidance to
        Bank staff on appropriate analytical approaches and procedures for consultations
        required for projects that support "process oriented technical assistance" in the
        naturalresources management sector.

    0   Promote the use o f SEAS and related methodologies to support the preparation
        and implementation o f selected NRM projects to provide more information on
        baseline environmental and social trends and conditions.

    0   Take steps to ensure that approaches, such as landscape levelbiodiversity man-
        agement, best management practices for Protected Areas, andinformation-sharing




                                             25

Cambodia Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


        (e.g., mapping, gap analysis, review o fthe Protected Areas system) are introduced
        infuture projects ofthistype.

    Within the Region ( E M ) :

    0   Support the finalization o f the draft Community Consultation Guidelines inCam-
       bodia; also ensuring that the Guidelines explicitly include a reference to the legal
        framework in Cambodia andprovide guidance regarding the appropriate authori-
        ties to informwhen "chance finds" occur.

    0   Recognizing the urgency o f securing landandresource rights for Indigenous Peo-
       ples, make a strong and immediate effort (including providing technical assis-
        tance) incollaboration with other donors and Government under the TWG for
        Land, to finalize, as amatter o fpriority, the legal andenabling implementingpro-
        cedures required for makingthe provisions o fthe LandLaw a reality for indige-
        nous communities inCambodia.

B.      APPROACH     MOVING    FORWARD: FRAMEWORK
                                           NRM

84.     Governanceand N M . InMay 2005, the Board endorsed a new CAS for Cam-
bodia. Drawing on extensive consultations with the Cambodian authorities, NGOs, and
civil society, this new CAS focuses on governance, improving donor coordination and
partnerships, and results. As with the previous CAS, the focus o f this CAS on governance
includes specific efforts to improve the management o f natural resources, especially land
and forests. The proposed program consists o f a USD 10 million IDA grant for a Land
Allocation for Social and Economic Development Project (scheduled for FY07) that aims
to provide land and/or greater security o f tenure and agricultural services to the poor and
landless. Inaddition, the Bank is preparing a USD 10million IDA grant for a LandMan-
agement and Administration Project 11(LMAP 11, FY08) as a follow-up to the current
support for landtitling from the first LMAP (approved inFY02) that is providing around
25,000 landtitles per month. Project work i s being complementedby Analytical and Ad-
visory Activities (MA)on land, forestry and agrarian structure issues that aim to build
consensus among all concerned stakeholders (government, donors, civil society, and
communities) on the way forward inthese critical areas o fNRM.Annual Poverty Reduc-
tion Support Operations (PRSOs), commencing inFY07, will provide momentum to re-
forms, not only in the natural resources sector, but in governance, private sector devel-
opment, andpublic financial management.

85.     Building on the strategy outlined inthe CAS as well as the experience with the
FCMCPP, the Bank's November 2005 letter to the Government o f Cambodia outlined a
strategy for going forward inthe forest sector, including concession management, moni-
toring, and a range o f forest management options. Considering the complexity o f issues
related to sustainable forest, land and biodiversity management in Cambodia, the Bank
has initiated a process o f engagement with the Government o f Cambodia, donors, local
stakeholders, and civil society representatives ina sustained dialogue on poverty allevia-
tion andNRM.




                                               26

                                                                       Management Report and Recommendation


86.       InMarch 2006, at the Consultative Group meeting for Cambodia, donors agreed
that, while significant progress had been made on several governance issues, reforms
needed to be stepped up ina number o f areas, including NRM.Onthe one hand, the pace
o f land titling has picked up, and transparency o f information regarding economic land
concessions has improved following the concerted efforts o f the donor community. On
the other hand, however, land grabbing by the rich andpowerful continues unabated and
the Government does not seem to have the political will to enforce its own laws on keep-
ing the size o f economic concessions to a maximumo f 10,000 hectares, as required by
the Land Law. Currently, for example, it i s reported that the Government is considering
awarding a concession o f 60,000 hectares to a Chinese company to start a rubber planta-
tion, which would be in violation o f the Land Law. The Inspection Panel report high-
lighted the problems the Bank has faced inthe forest sector, and given the lack o f politi-
cal will to fight forest crimes, a consensus has yet to emerge on a clear way forward.

87.       NRM Framework. Drawing on lessons learned not only from the project, but
from other lending andpolicy activities, an NRM framework is being put together that is
based on the general Governance Framework in the CAS and focuses on the following
three pillars:

     0    Transparency. Bank engagement will promote increasing public participation in
          decision making and improve public access to information insupport o f account-
          ability.

     0    Decentralization and Local Empowerment. Bank engagement will include support
          at sub-national levels: (i)       to expand community and commune level planning and
          management o f natural resources; and (ii) strengthen the voice o f local stake-
                                                                   to
          holders inthe governance o fnatural resources.

     0    Partnerships. The Bank will work closely with partners in developing program-
          matic approaches and integrating forest management decisions into broader NRM
          planningandimplementationefforts. Partners will include TWGs for land; fisher-
          ies; agriculture and water; and forestry and environment; as well as the private
           sector, the media, local andinternational NGOs andother civil society representa-
          tives.

PHASEI:       DIALOGUETO BUILD CONSENSUS

88.       Inorder to reach a common understanding on the way forward, a major dialogue
with the Government andother stakeholders on forestry andrural development options is
already underway and drawing, where appropriate, on recent analytical work undertaken
by the Bank and others." This dialogue now needs to be deepened and would proceed
with the explicit aim o f exploring boththe short-term imperative to address concerns re-
lated to access to natural resources by the rural poor, illegal logging andforest land en-


loSeveral related and partially overlapping studies have recently been completed and a summary and synthesis to cap-
ture main messages and convey these in a concise form to policy makers are needed. Examples include IFSR, GFA
 1&2, International Tropical Timber Organization (ITTO) Land Studies, Rural Investment and Local Governance Pro-
ject studies, Seila studies, and Cambodia Development Resource Institute studies.



                                                          27

Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project


croachment, and continuingforest loss and the longer-term optionsfor sustainable man-
agement of forest resources and will attempt to balance the competing objectives o f bio-
diversity conservation and expanding opportunities for economic growth.

89.     The proposed dialogue will touch on several keyissues including:

   0    Improving the availability o f information on natural resources and their manage-
        ment (addressing the quality, completeness, and frequency o f data collection, and
        improving the transparency o f mechanisms for monitoring and reporting, includ-
        ingpublic disclosure and dissemination).

   0    Development o f a national vision statement buildingon the existing Forest Policy
        Statement o f the Government o f Cambodia and preparation o f a National Forest
        Plan to guide implementation o f the existing legal framework, to identify viable
        and sustainable forest management options, and to foster a broader national con-
        sensus onpriority actions inthe short and mediumterm.

   0    Integrating forestry into NRM planning and implementation (through ongoing
        processes andpilots at both local andlandscape levels).

    0   Appropriate conferral o f use and/or tenurial rights inthe context o f ongoing land
        use planning anddemarcation o f apermanentforest estate."

    0   Development o f more robust forest law enforcement via enhanced independent
        monitoring; strengthened accountability mechanisms; strengthening Government
        enforcement capacity; use o f remote sensing; prosecution case tracking; prosecu-
        tor training; and strengthened court capacity.

    0   Mechanisms to foster inter-ministerial coordination and strengthen governance o f
        natural resources and efforts to clarify roles and responsibilities among central,
        provincial, and commune level authorities.

90.      Consideration o f renewed and expanded engagement on the part o f the Bank
would only commence once there was a clear understanding and commitment on the part
of relevant authorities within the FA, the MAFF, and other Ministries with overlapping
mandates (Land, Environment), andupon consultations with other stakeholders.

PHASE11:POTENTIALPRINCIPLES, APPROACH FOR--ENGAGEMENT

91.     Depending on the outcomes o f the aforementioned dialogue and on any new na-
tional consensusthat may emerge, the Bankwould consider a new operationwith forestry
inCambodia. Any significant expansion ofBankengagement wouldbebasedonup-front
analytical work and/or piloting adequate to ensure that there is a shared understanding of
policy issues, constraints, andopportunities to informproject design.


  Consistent with existing sub-decrees on demarcation and state land managementand focusing on the identification
and strengtheningof legal claims to common property resources by Indigenous People and other forest dependent
communities.



                                                       28

                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


92.   Lending for projects or project components under the proposed engagement
would only take place for designs that are consistent with the following principles;

      Active and Informed Participation of Primary Stakeholders (those most directly
      affected by implementation). Development and dissemination o f clear and concise
      guidelines for community consultation to ensure mutual understanding o f over-
      arching objectives and rights and obligations consistent with the existing legal
      fiamework.

      Conferral of Secure Rights to Land and Other Natural Resources. This includes
      associated responsibilities for conservation and sustainable use to communities
      and or households consistent with and supportive o f a developing role for local
      government.

      Collection and Wide Dissemination of Information. Information disseminated in
      Khmer on program objectives andproject desigdimplementation at local, provin-
      cial, and national level to increase transparency and build public understanding
      andconfidenceinthe sector.

      Focus on Integrated NRM Planning. Effective protection and sustainable use o f
      forest resources though integrated planning and development o f new sources o f
      income for forest fringe communities through improved productivity and eco-
      nomic returns from forests, agriculture, livestock, andfisheries.

      Community-based and Entrepreneurial Approaches. Adoption o f approaches that
      encourage communities and entrepreneurs to develop skills to harvest sustainably,
      process, and sell produce directly in domestic markets and where appropriate to
      seek private sector partners to identify and access international marketing oppor-
      tunities.

                                VIII. CONCLUSION

93.   InManagement's view, the Bankhas made every effort to apply its policies and
procedures and to pursue its mission statement in the context o f the project. It is Man-
agement'sjudgment that the Lessons Learned and the proposedAction Planappropriately
addressthe issues identified inthe Panel's report.




                                            29


                                 1"AND REG          DATION
                                 N PANEL IN         ATION REFQRT ON

            REDIT IT NO, ~ 3 ~AND TRUST FUND,2641
                         SSlON M A N A ~ E ~ E N T CONTROL PILOT PROJECT
                                               AND
                                  5  -   ~   ~




No Issue                 Para  CommenffAction
                         Pia.

                     F ~ ~ J CONCEPTAND DESI~N
                              ~ C T




                                   31










SOCIAL COM~~IANCE


33

44


t '

16. TechnicalAssistance Provided          307  Comment: Managernentnotes the Panel's finding.
    Paneldid not find evidence that tech-
    nical assistancewas provideddirectly       Action: No action to be taken.
    to companies.Rather,consistent with
    OP 13.05, Bank focused its technical
    assistanceon building capacity of the
    ForestAdministrationto oversee dc-
    velopment of SFMPs by companies.

17. Reviewof SFMPslESlAs                  Excc Comment:Management concurs with the Panel's observations
    Notwithstandingefforts by Manage-     Sum, regarding the multiple deficienciesfound in SFMPs and ESlAs



sct





                         Management Report and Recommendation


                ANNEX 2

SUB-DECREEON FORESTCONCESSION MANAGEMENT




                   55


                                                                                  Page 1of 14


UnofficiaItrsnslation:


                                    KINGDOMOF CAMBODIA
                                       Nation-Religion-King


RoyalGovernment of Cambodia
NO.:05 ONKR-BK

                         THE FORESTSUB-DECREEON
                                        CONCESSIONMANAGEMENT

                                   THE ROYAL GOVERNMENT


Havingseen tho Conslilulion of tho Kingdomof Cambodia (1993);

Havingseen the RoyalDecreeNo. NSIRKTII198R2dated November30, 1998on the formation of
the Royal Governmentof Cambodia;

Havingseen the Lowon the Organizationand Functioningof the councilof Ministerspromulgated
by Kram 02 NS94 dated July 20,1994;

Havingseen the Low on the Establishmentof the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry & Fishery
promulgatedby Krom NS/RKM/0196/13datedJanuary 24, 1996;

Having seen the law - Decree on Forest Management No. 35 Kr-C DatedJune 25, 1988;

Havingseen the law on EnvironmentalProtectionand NaturalResource Management
promulgated by Krarn NS-KRM 1296-36dated December24, 1996;

Having seen the Law on Investmentof the Kingdomof Cambodia promulgatedby Kram 03 NS 94
dated August 4, 1994;

Declaration No. 01,datedJanuary 25, 1999 on Measureof forest Managementand the
Eliminationof Forest IllegalActivities.

Havingseen the Sub-Decreeon the processingof Environmental ImpactAssessment No. 72
ONKR-BK DatedAugust 11,1999;

Havingapproved by the plenarysessiondated February04, 1999of the council of Ministers.

                                                                                        Page 2 of 14

                            IT IS HEREBY DECIDEDAND ORDERED

                                               CHAPTER I
                                     GENERAL PROVISIONS



ARTICLE 1

1.1    This Sub-Decree applies to all forest harvesting activities,investmentagreements, and
       forest concession approved by the RGC.

ARTICLE 2

The purposesof this Sub-Decree are to:

2.1    Developa forest concessionplanning, implementationand control system which will lead
       to balanced, sustainable and technically competent managementof production forests in
       the Kingdomof Cambodia;

2.2    Ensurethat forest concession tenure are in the public interestand meet long-term
       integratedresource management objectives, and that the process by which concessions
       are granted and managedis fair andtranspareht;

2.3    Ensurethat concession forest managementregimesconserve and protect natural bio-
       diversity,ecosystem functionand importantforest services such as soil conservation and
       watershed regulation;

2.4    Ensurefull communication, Cooperation and coordinationin concession management
       between all Ministriesand Agencies whose responsibilitiesand mandates may be
       impacted by the establishment and managementof concessions;

2.5    protect and maintain rights of access to those forest resourcesoccurring on concession
        areas that are of economic,subsistenceand spiritual value to Local communities;

2.6    Ensureregular consultationwith, and Participationby local communities and other relevant
       stakeholders in the development of concessionmanagement plans and the monitoring of
       operational activities over the life of the concession; and

2.7    Establisha competent forest management planning and control system that will provide a
       context for and encouragement to applicationsby the CambodianTimber Industry for
       InternationalForest ManagementCertification.

ARTICLE 3

The Ministryof Agriculture Forestryand Fisheries(Departmentof ForestryandWildlife)has the
whole functionto follow Up Control, monitoringand manage all activities of the forest harvesting for
forest sustainablemanagement.

                                                        , I                               Page 3 of 14



   The meaningof technical terms where used in the sub-decreewill be mentionedin the appendixof
   this Sub-Decree.

                                                  CHAPTER 2

                          FORESTCONCE5SlON APPLICATION AND APPROVAL


   ARTICLE 4

   4.1    Uponrecommendationof the Ministryof Forestryand Fisheries(bepartmentof Forestry
          andWildlife), following consultaLionwith all relevantinstitutionsand localcommunities.The
          Councilof Ministercan decide t.1put the vacant forest areas to become a forest
          concessionand open for public competitivebidding. Application for forest concessionwas
          built up must coincidewith the rational and provincialdevelopmentgoals and existing local
          land used plans.

   4.2    4.2 Tenders will only be acceptedfrom commercial entities that are included in the name
          list of '' Pre-Selection" kept and arranged by the Ministryof Agriculture Forestryand
          Fisheries(Departmentof Foresty andWildlife). Only those commercialentities who been
          pre-selectedand compliedwith Ihe conditions and proof beloware allowedto apply:
          (a)        Demonstratedcompeten:e in all aspects of forest managementincluding
                     planning, harvesting, fc rest regeneration, stand management,environmental
                     protectionand cammunit:/relations:    '




          (b)        A good compliance recorj, with an absence of serious technical violations in all
                     jurisdictionsin which it hes beenengaged inforestry operations;

                     Adequate financial and professionalstaff resourcesto carry out effectiveforest
- -       (e)        operations.


    4.3   Tendering documents preparedt,yMAFF relating to the invitationto bid shall:
           (a)       Definethe criteria of selec:tionby a practical bookfor the concessionbidding;

           (b)       Identifythe extent of forest boundary allocatedfor the purpose bidding as forest
                     concession;

           (c)       Identifythe forest resources availablefor harvestingandthe prohibitedor specially
                     protectedareas for environmental and sociallculturaf values with the use of satellite
                     or aerial remotesensing a7d rapidrural appraisals;

           (d)       Describethe management goals, objectives, requirementsand applicationsof the
                     concessionairesandthe RGC'sexpectationsfrom the concessionaire:
                     including, forest planning,1orest protectionand management,environmental
                     protectionand conservatio1, consultationand cooperationwith local communities,
                     implementationof customary rights inthe territory of the concessionand its vicinity,

                                                                                       Page 4 of 14


             infrastructuredevelopment, recruitmentand employment (particularly of focal
             people),human resourcedevelopment, procurementof goods and services,
             monitoringand evaluation, permitsand other regulatorycontrols, and penalties for
             non-compliance;

      (e)    Contain a copy of the Forest ConcessionAgreement (Section 5.1 below);

      (9     Define the criteria on which bids will be evaluated by RGC.




' 4.4 Where a forest concession is offeredfor public competitivebidding under this sub-decree,
      the tendering process shall be defined by Prakas of the Ministryof Agriculture Forestry and
      Fisheries (MAFF) and include the following considerations:
      (a)    The bidding proceduremust be administeredby a joint committee nominated by the
             RGC;.

      (b)    Public notice of the time and place at which the bids must be tendered shall be
             given at least 90 days in advance on radio, television, and at least one national
             newspaper;

      (c)    The public notice shall define the form and content of the biddingsubmissions; such
             documentsto comprise a financial bid and a statement of commitmentto fulfill the
             specifications and expectationsreferredto in Article 4 Section 4.3 (c) and (d)
             above:

      (d)    All tenders shall pay a deposit to the national treasury, thru DFW upon submission
             of their bid,the amount of such deposit to be set by the joint committee referred to
             in Section 5.5.The Committeewill meet first to decide on the amount of the deposit
             and such deposit should commensurateto the concession;

      (e)    The public notice described in (b) above shall specify the time and place where bids
             are to be opened and officially invite bidders and other interested individuals to be
             present at the opening of the bids;

      (f)    Prior to the opening of the bids. and upon the recommendationof the MAFF, the
             Councilof Minister shall fix a reserve price, which may of may not be disclosed, for
             the forest concession on offer.

      (9)    Placewhere full documentationrelatingto the process of tendering for the
             concessionmay be consulted and obtained, and the fees payable, the date and
             time where a tender for a concessionmust be submitted;

      (h)    At the time and place advertisedaccording to paragraph 4.4 (9above, the Minister
             of MAFFshall open all the financial bidsreceivedand shall disclose to all persons
             presentthe financial bids offeredby each bidder.The Joint Committee will classify
             the financial bids ina final list to be sent to the MAFF.

                                                                                     Page 5 of 14


     (i)    Followingthe disclosure of the financial bids,the Ministerof Agriculture, Forestry &
            Fisheriesshall announce the tentativeselection of the successful bidder until
            approvalhas beenmade from the Royal Government.

     (j)    The bid submissions referredto in Section 4.4 (c).here above shall be madefreely
            available for public reviewfor a periodof six weeks after identification of the
            approved bidder, duringwhich time any. concernedparties in the bidding processes
            may appeal the bidding decision to the Royal Governmentof Cambodia;

     (k)    At the expirationof the six weeks appealperiodand uponthe decision by the Royal
            Governmentof Cambodia,the successfulbidder shall be confirmed:

     (I)     Upon confirmation of the successfulbidder, deposits referredto in Section 4.4 (d)
             aboveshall be returnedto the unsuccessfulbidders;

     (m)     If the successful bidderfail to sign the ForestConcessionAgreement or fails to pay
             the additional amount to reach their biddingprice within thirty (30) days of the
             confirmationdecision referredto in (k) above, the depositshall be forfeited in favor
             to the RGC.


ARTICLE 5

5.1  The newforest concessionshall be governed by the newforest concessionagreement
     samplewhich will be organizedby the Ministryof Agriculture Forestryand Fisheries
     ( O W ) .For the existingforest concessionit shall be also governedby the new concession
     agreementwith approvalby two parties through negotiationor when the existing forest
     concessionagreement was expired.

5.2  The forest concession agreementshall follow the proceduresidentifiedby the Ministry of
     Agriculture Forestry& Fisheries,and shall conformedto:
     (a)     Date and duration of forest concessionmust be provided;

     (b)     Identifiedforest area shall be providedas a forest concession:

     (c)     Definethe extent of the forest areas, forest type and forest product to be allowed for
             harvesting,

     (d)     The needsfor the concessionaireto prepareall documents,Planing reports,
             researchprojects, data and informationrelativeto effectiveforest resource
             managementand protection,

     (e)     Identifyother necessarycondition to ensure sustainableforest concession
             management,

                                                                                     Page 6 of 14


5.3  While it remain inforce the ForestConcessionAgreement shall confer exclusive rights to
     carryon:
     (a)    Harvesting and managementoperations in the concession area in respect of any
            forest products specified in the agreement; and

     (b)    Such other operationand execute other works as may be approved as necessary
            for the harvestingand managementactivitiesreferredto in (a),


5.4  The terminationof the Forest ConcessionAgreement may be revoked due to non-
     compliance of its terms and conditions or allowed to resume before expiration by the RGC.
     The forest concession agreementwith none or incompletecompliance as implemented
     under the law, the forest concession shalt be revokedor cancelled, and reverted to natural
     forest protected areas. Saidforest area shall be re-groupand cannot be awarded to other
     companies.

5..5 All concessions, the Ministryof Agriculture Forestryand Fisheries (DFW) in collaboration
     with the competentgovernor and local authorities, shall establish permanent Community
     ConsultationCommittees (CCC's). These will serve as a focal point for discussing and
     consultationon all issues of joing concern between the Concessionaireand communities
     inside and within the vicinity of the concession.The ConsultationCommittee Members
     shall be elected by the local communities,drawn eitherfrom chairpersons of Village
     DevelopmentCommittees (wherethis exist) or from other electedforms of traditional social
     organization.                                    ,

5.6  The Ministryof Agriculture Forestryand Fisheries(DFW) may grant licenses br permits to
     partiesother than the Conceeessionaireto collect other non forest product inside the
                                                                 -
     forest concession area. Providedthat such collections do not conflict with the rights and
     responsibilitiesof the concessionairesas mandatedin the Forest ConcessionAgreement.
     Ingranting permits and licensesfor the collection of those non-forestproduct shall be
     grantedfor a period not exceeding one year and may be renewed upon application. Those
     licensesor permitsto be issuedfor collection of non-forestproduct for business purposes
     and does not includethe customary rights due to traditional existence and personal use by
     local people.

5.7  All concession documentsshall be made available to pertinent government institution and
     related parties as requested.

5.8  The managementof other natural resources, produceinsideforest concession areas shall
     be governed by the low of the state.


                                           CHAPTER 3

                 FORESTCONCESSIONPLANNINGAND MANAGEMENT

                                                                                   Page 7 of 14


ARTICLE 6

6.1  Foran effective forest tnanagementOperationsand activities, it is a requirementto develop
     aforest
       detailed and workable Plansin accordancewith the degree, scope and schedule. The
            concessionsthereforshall prepare and arrangetheir whole area into management
     area, annual coupe operationand harvestingblock.

6.2  Everyestablishmentof forestconcession planing are defined by as classification below:
     (a)     Develop aforest
                         managementplan as terms-of-referencein a multi- stakeholder     forum,
             defining           management,       social, environmentaland financial planning
             criteria;

     (b)     Delineateforest zones, basedon participatoryrural appraisals and broad forest
             resource and environmentalinventoryand mapping,to define:

             0       Non-operableareas (bio-diversityreserves,buffer zones and corridors,
                     watershed protectionareas, riparianreserves,fragile areas, critical
                     degradedareas, and community forest areas); and


             0       The net operable forest.

     (c)     Prepare a medium-termConcession Management Planfor the operable forest
             based on a managernent-levelinventory, which prescribes:


             0       Appropriate silviculturalsystemsand harvestingtechniquesfor different
                     forest and terrain types, basedon a detailed assessmentof natural
                     disturbanceregimes;

             0       A mediumand long-termsustainedyield, derived bothfrom growth and yield
                      informationand from cuttingconstraints designedto maintainforest
                      composition, structure and ecologicalfunction;


             0        Environmentaland social impact managementand monitoringprograms;


             0        On-going   community      cdnsultation and     participationprogramsand
                      community agreements; and

                      Monitoringand evaluationsystems.

     (d)     Prepare annual operational plans at the coupe and block levels guided by "Codes
             of Practice" prescribing:-

             0        Harvestingmethods and equipment;


             0        Timber volumes to be removed;

             b        Logmarking andtracking procedures,

                                                                                  Page 8 of 14


              a      Locationand designof forest access;


              0      Regenerationand stand-tendingactivities;


              0      Site-specificenvironmentatand culturalresourceprotection,


              0      Annual communityconsultation.


ARTICLE 7

7.1    Inthe development,preparationand implementationof the ForestConcession
       Management Plans,the Concessionairesare requiredto apply the following Cambodian
      Forest Management Code of Practiceat all various Jevelsof ForestConcession
      Management Planning.No any planshall be approvedfor non-complianceto the principle
      offorest managementcode of practice.

7.2   The Forest managementCodes of Practicewill servedas a guide for the development of
      forest concessionmanagement plan as referredto article 6 as stated above are the
      following:
       (a)    Guidelinesfor ForestConcessionManagementPlanning;

       (b)    Inventoriesin the Forest Management Cycle;

       (c)    Bio-diversityConservationGuidelinesfor the Managed Forest;

       (d)    Social ForestryGuidelinesfor Forest Concession:

       (e)    Timber Theft Management Guidelines;

       (f)    The Cambodian Forest HarvestingCodes of Practice;

       (9)    ConstructionGuidelinesof Forest EngineeringWorks;

       (h)    EIA guidelinesfor Forest ConcessionManagement;and

       (i)    Guidelinesfor Special Management areas.


7.3   The MAFF (Dnnl) shall develop and notify any other guidelinesand Codes
of Practice,as deem necessarysuchas :forestsivilculture, forest improvement,forest residue
growing-stockmanagement,wildlife habitatmanagement,water courseprotectionand forest
monitoring.


ARTICLE 8

                                                                                     Page 9 of 14


Upon reviewand approval by MAFF on these plans, the Departmentof Forestry and Wildlife shall
issue a cutting permit and charge bookto the concessionaireas an additional conditionto inter
annualcoupe for forest harvesting. These plans shall form part of the main body of permitwith
conditionsand shall serve as the basisfor the assessmentof forest regulationcompliance.

                                            CHAPTER 4
                        MONJTORINGAND REGULATIONSCOMPLIANCE


ARTICLE 9

9.1     Forest harvestingmonitoringis established into two types :forest condition monitoringand
       forest taw compliance monitoring.

        0       Forest conditionmonitoringis to establishand observe the changes of --forest
                ecology systemwith land used, silviculturalworks and forest harvesting,

                Forest low compliance monitoring is organized to evaluateforest laws
                implementationas referredto the approved plans and some conditions as mention
                in the charge book and cuttingpermit.


 9.2    Forest condition compliancemonitoring programshall be incorporatedas one of the
        provisioninthe forest concessionmanagementplan. These will be sole responsibilitiesof
        the concessionaires. These monitoringare:
        (a)     Landuse conditionmonitoring,

        (b)     Seedling populationmonitoringduring pre and post harvestingand trees standing
                condition,

        (c)     Existingwildlife monitoring,

        (d)     Forestvegetation monitoringduring pre and post harvesting,

        (e)     Comprehensive observationof biodiversityfor 5-10 years inthe concessionarea.


        The type of this Monitoringneed a highstandard monitoring efficiencywith science and
        statisticssectionthat can carry Out with a technical assistancefrom other international
        organizationas necessary.


 9.3    For each concession, MAFFshallform a ComplianceMonitoringTeam with clearly
        assigned roles, responsibilitiesandauthority. The team will carry out periodic concession
        boundaryinspections and regular inspectionsof annualcoupeand block operations, and
        shall bringfonrvard non-complianceviolations of enforcement action consistentwith the
        terms. All inspectionsshall be documentedusing the standardmonitoringforms contained
        inChapter 14of the ForestHarvestingCodes of Practice.The team will assess completed
        blocksand make recommendationsto DFW on closure priorto approval of new blocks.
        The OW-shall prepare an annuat monitoring,complianceand enforcement reportfor each

                                           t                                        Page 10of 14


    concession and circulatethese repods to interestedparties and other relevant government
    agencies.

9.4 Concessionaires mayestablish their own compliance monitoringprograms for internal
    quality controllqualityassurance, and effective law enforcement purposes.

9.5  Everyfive years during the Forest ManagementPlan period, MAFF (DWF) shall consult
    with the Concessionaires and Community Consultation Committee to:
     ij Reviewthe compliancerecord;
     ii) Evaluatethe effectivenessof regulations, codes andguidelinesand other forest
          management prescriptions;
     iii) Determinewhat improvementsare necessaryto improveoverall performance.

                                            Chapter 5

                                 ENFORCEMENTMECHANISM


ARTlClE 10

10.1 in case of non-performanceof the obligations defined in the Forest Concession Agreement
     and the Forest ManagementPlan, the DFW of MAFFshall give a written notice of such
     breachesto the Concessionaire. If any damage occurredas a consequence of such
     breaches,the Concessionaireshall advise for a cure periodof ninety (90) clays to repair
     any such damage. If the concessionairefails to repair such damages, the MAFF shall
     assess liquidateddamages.

10.2 Notwithstandingthe applicationof any applicable laws and other regulations, in case of any
     violations of all applicable laws and regulations of Forest ConcessionAgreement and the
     Forest Management Plan,the RGC may require the Concessionaireto pay liquidated
     damages that shall be assessedby the MAFF.

10.3 Incase of repeatedviolations of the terms of the ForestConcession ,Agreement and
     Forest Management Plan, if such violations continue un- remediedafter ninety (90) days,
     the RGC shall deliver a notice of intent, to declare suspensionor termination of his forest
     concessionoperation.

10.4 The concessionaire shall be required to relinquish in favor of the State any claim of right or
     positionof any timber or other natural resources taken inthe course of any breach of the
     forest concession agreementand the forest management plan.

                                          CHAPTER 6

                                      FINAL PROVISIONS

                                                                                     Page 11of 14


 ARTICLE 11

 11.l All provisionscontrary to this law shall be abrogated

 ARTICLE 12
  - does not appear    -
 ARTICLE 13
 The Ministerincharge of the Council of Ministers,the Ministryof Agriculture, Forestryand
'Fisheries. all Ministersand StateSecretariesof Ministries and institutionconcernedand
 Governorsof provincialcities shalt be responsible for the implementation of this Sub-Decree.

 ARTICLE 14
 This Sub-Decreeshall becomeeffective on date of its signature.

 PhnomPenh
 Date:07 February,2000
 Signed and sealed
 Prime Minister

 Hun Sen

                                                                                     Page 12of 14


Having informto Samdech Prime Minister
Minister of Agriculture, forestry & Fisheries
Signed


Chhea Song

cc:
The Cabinet of the King
General Departmentof Royal Palace Ministry
General Secretariat of Senate
GeneralSecretariat of nationalAssembiy
Cabinetof Samdech Prime Minister
Genera! Secretariat of RGC
As Article 12
File

                                                                     Copied from the original script
                                                            Phnom Penh, date 10 February, 2000
                                                                              For- Director of DFW
                                                                                   Deputy director
                                                                               Signed and sealed


                                                                                   Chea Sam Ang

Appendix of sub-decree No.05 0NKr.BK Dated February 07,2000

The following technical terms where used in the sub-decreeshall have the meaning ascribed
thereto in this Article:

"AnnualAilowable Cut (AAC)" meansthe volume of wood that can be harvested each year from
the concession,while maintaining ecological integrity and not exceedingthe long-term sustainable
yield. The AAC may vary from year to year but must balanceat a sustainable level over a 10 years
period.

"AnnualOperation Plan (AOP)" means a documentthat regulatesaccess development, forest
harvesting,regenerationand stand tending activities at the annual coupe level in a manner
consistent with the "Forest ManagementPlan".

"Bio-Diversity" meansthe diversity of plants, animals and other living organisms in all their forms
and levels of organization, includinggenes, species, ecosystems and the evolutionary and
functional processes that link them.

"Blockis the smallest unit of managementand hasfunction of being a unit of cutting control fop
harvesting operations.

"ChargeBook"means a legal, contractualdocument betweenthe MAFF and the concessionaire
listingthe terms and conditions of annual coupe operations.

                                                                                        Page 13 of 14


"Codesof Practicefor Forest Management" means a set of technical prescriptions for forest
managementintended to guide managementplanning and implementationat all levels.

wc~~pe" a grographicallyrecognizable,area of forestformingthe basis of each "Annual
          means
OperationPlan" and serving as a basisfor permanent recordsof forest operations,

"Environmental ImpactAssessment (EIA)"means tbe process by which the environmental and
social impact of developmentactivitiesare identified, assessed, managed and monitored as
defined inthe tow on EnvironmentalProtectionand NaturalResource Management of 1996,

"Forest" means a naturalecosystemdominated by woody plants, including dry land and wetiand
forest formations, all stages of naturalforest succession, and any non-treedwetlands and open
lands within a forest that form an integral part of that ecosystem.

"Forest Concession' meansa tenure system by which the government provides to private
companies,through negotiationor bidding, the rights and responsibilitiesfor forest management
and harvesting on a defined area of land subject to terms and conditions established in low and
regulation.

"Forest Concession Agreement" means an agreement or contract betweenthe RGC, and a
person or commercial entity granting rights to occupy and manage an area of the permanent forest
estate for the purposeof harvestingdesignatedforest products,subject to conditions or
prescriptionas established by the RGC.

"Forest Management Plan" means document that translates nationalforest and natural resource
policies into a coordinatedmanagement program for the forest concession as a whole; defining
forest "Zones" and regulatingwood production and environmental and social activities for a set
time period(Le. 15 years) through the use of prescriptionsspecifying broad objectives
management actions and monitoringand control arrangements.

"Forest Products" includes:
Timber, lumber,charcoal, firewood, bark and extracts of bark:
Latex, gums, resins, flowers,fruit, seeds, nuts, leaves, fibers,rattans, spices, tanstuffs, dyestuffs,
moulds,fungi, medicines, drugs, cosmetics, fodder, cultural and ceremonialitems,and building
and thatching materials derivedfrom wild growing trees, shrubs and plants (deador alive); and

"Guidelines" means a set of forest planningand operationalwhich are usually not, in-themselves,
mandatoryrequirements but become enforceable when stipulated in a license, plan, permit or
contract (synonymouswith Codes of Forest Practice).

"permanent Forest Estate" means legally and geographicallyidentifiedlands of Itenure types
comprisingforests or areas capable of forest productionto be managedby MAFF, concession
holders, localcommunities or other forest usersbfor the long-termobjectivesof sustainable
productionof forest productsand the maintenanceof forest compositions,structure and ecological
function.

"PubllcBidding" means commercially acceptable mechanismfor making sales f standing timber
by publiccompetitivebidding.

                                                                                   Page 14of 14


"ResenrePrice"meansthe minimum price that the RGC will accept in the bidding process for
awarding any particular forest concession. The reserve price may or may not be disclosed prior to
commencementof the bidding process.

Village DevelopmentCommittees (VDC's)"are elected bodies at the village level established
by sub-decroe under rural davelopmant logislation to advise tho RGC 011 localdevelopment needs
and initiatives.

"Zones" means a sub-division of a "Forest Concession" with specific ecological (biophysical)
characteristics or resource values that a different managementregime from adjacent zones,

                * Sector Difodar
                c tcad Natural Rcsoufcc;Economist




Aprif 2004 -
           -
                  Task Team Lsaf-leriLsradNatural Rosourcc~ c o ~ o ~ i s t
                  Sr, forestry Sl~ecialist

                    ind Ri


                  _II




                           Forest In-
-               -          ventory &               Pr
                    M&E                 trot       Mgmt
s   II
           NR        NR      NR         NR          NR
ssss sss             ss       ss
     ss    sss       u
                     s        ss         ssss        ssss
u   ti     us                 U                      u
u    u                                   ss          s
ssss u               usu
     u               U        sss
     U               U
     U     sssss     El       ss                     ssss
tt   U     El        u        s
                     u                   ssssss      uu

                                                                         Management Report and Recommendation


                                                         ANNEX 4

                        NOVEMBER2005 LETTER ON FORESTMANAGEMENTIN CAMBODIA


The World Bank                                                   1818 H Street N.W.            (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT              Washington, D.C. 20433        Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                              U.S.A.                        Cable Address: INDEVAS



                                                                                 November 22,2005



            H.E.Chan Sarun
            Minister
            MinistryofAgriculture, Forestry, andFisheries
            PhnomPenh, Cambodia

            Your Excellency:

                        Re: Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project (P060003)
                                          Project Close and Optionsfor the Future

                     Iappreciatethetimeandsupportyourstaffprovidedtoourrecentsupervisionmissionfor
            the Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project. Iunderstand that the discussions
            between the Forest Administration (FA), our staff, and other stakeholders were frank and con-
            structive. As the project draws to a close, this i s aldo an appropriate time to review some o f the
            options for the future development o f the sector andthe Bank'spossible engagement.

            Project-Related Issues Concession System, Independent Monitoring, Closure
                                      -
            Forest Concessions: First,the recently completed GFA Independent Review of Strategic Forest
            Management Plans (SFMPs) presents a strong critique o fmanagementplanningundertakento
            date by six concessionairesinCambodia. The report concludes that the concessionaires have
            failed to follow Government guidelines andinparticular to effectively engage inconsultations at
            the community level. Failures of consultation haveresultedinunderestimation o flegallypro-
            tected customary, subsistence and commercial forest use byneighboring communities, andthis,
            inturn,bringsinto questionproposedcompartmentboundaries, yieldestimates, andanticipated
            economic returns from concession operations.

                     The Review found that even after five years o fmanagementplanpreparation, multiple
            reviews andresubmissions none o fthe six Strategic Forest Management Plansprovides an ade-
            quate basis for sustainableforest management. Inlight o fthese findings, andbasedon our dia-
            logue with Government counterparts, interested donors, and civil society, our assessment is that
            concessionairepe$ormance is unlikely to improve and concessionaires are unlikely to meet their
            contractual and legal obligations. As you know, the Bankhas on many occasions inthe past ad-
            vised the Government to demand appropriate perfomance from concessionaires, to fully exercise
            its rights under the existing concession contracts, andto enforce relevant Cambodian laws. We
            thinkthat the Government shouldnowact onthat advice accordinglyandtake appropriateaction
            inaccordancewiththerightsavailable to itunderCambodianlawandunderthe concession con-

CambodiaForest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


tracts (includingany right it has to terminate these contracts) to bringthis unsatisfactory state o f
affairs to a quick conclusion.

         Inanticipationoffurtherconcessionterminations, weurgetheGovernmenttoimmedi-
ately plan for responsible and sustainablemanagemento fthe respective forest areas following
termination. We recommend that the government undertake arapid assessment o f areas under
threat o fland grabbing and illegal logging and target the most vulnerable areas for a rapidexpan-
sion o f community or commune-basedforest protection andor landtitling for small holders.
Many communities are already organizing spontaneouslyto protect their access to forest re-
sources, and these communities would certainly welcome Government recognition and support.

         While communities canplay an importantrole inresource protection, ultimately it i s the
government's responsibility to deter andprosecute criminal activities. Therefore any effort to re-
cruit communities for large-scaleprotection efforts inpost-concessionareas shouldbe matched
byequal efforts to increasethe capacity oflocalForestry Administration staffto fulfill their du-
ties.

IndependentMonitoring Second, as you know, the closing date for the Projectwas extended
                              -
to endDecember to provide continued support for the independent monitor, andto give time for
further discussionofthe modalitiesofandfinancing arrangementsfor continuedindependent
monitoring. Inthis context, bothGovernment andnon-government stakeholders have expressed
concerns about the precise role of the monitor, about the functioning o f the current independent
monitor, and about restrictions to the monitor's actions stemmingfrom the terms o freference. We
suggest that the Terms o fReference (TOR) bereviewedandrevisedas neededto ensure that
there i s an appropriate balance between the auditing, reporting, dissemination, andtraining func-
tions of the independent monitor under the new contract. To facilitate this debate, the Bankhas
already sharedEnglishandKhmer copies of the current TOR with interested donors, NGOs and
civil society groups to solicit comments and suggestions. Recognizingthat monitoring i s anim-
portant and challengingtask inthe current environment, we look forward to discussingwith Gov-
ernment and other stakeholdersthe development and financing ofaparticipatory system o fmoni-
toring. Support for communityparticipationinforest and landresources monitoring i s already
includedunder a proposedJapanese grant.

Project Closure As the closing date ofthe Project i s fast approaching (December 31,2005), the
                   -
Task Team has discussedwith counterparts inthe Forest Administration the procedures for re-
porting on the outcomes ofthe project to the Bank's Board o fDirectors before the end o f June,
2006. The Heado fthe Forest Administration has indicateda final report onthe project willbe
completed shortly. The Bankexpects to senda team to reviewthe Government's report andto
begin preparation of our own report -an ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR), as required
by our policies -inJanuary. We would like to havethe Government's comments onthe Bank's
 draft ICRbefore it i s finalized.The Bank will also ensurethat findings from the InspectionPanel
review ofthis operation are incorporatedinto the final ICR.

Looking Forward and Exploring a Range of Forest Management Options

          Forest management i s at a major crossroads inCambodia, and it i s clear from our discus-
 sionwithmany Cambodian and donor partners inthe sector that a broader approach to managing
 landand forests inCambodia is neededthat includes arange of forest management systems and
 ensures effective local participation. We also believe that the conclusions andrecommendations
 of the IndependentForest Sector Reviewprovide a goodbasis for such an approach andwish to
 encourage the Government and the Technical Working Group (TWG) onForests andEnviron-


                                                                                                     74

                                                             Management Report and Recommendation


ment to engagewith all concerned stakeholdersand quickly develop anational consensus onthe
way forward inthe context of the preparation of the annual actionplanofthe TWG and the
benchmarks for the upcoming Consultative Group meeting. The Bank i s committed to remain
engagedinthe forest sector inCambodia andto support the Government andthe TWG inexplor-
ingoptions anddeveloping sucha consensus.

         Inthiscontext, thereleaseofforest landfrom concessionagreementspresents anoppor-
tunity to experiment withnewmoreequitable andsustainableforest managementalternatives;
andwe encouragethe Government to actively explore a mix o f approaches. Some examples in-
clude:

CommunityForestry Community forestry has significant scope for expansion underthe new
                           -
sub-decree; andwhile the draft procedures for implementingcommunity forestry are seenby
many as cumbersome and too focused on central government control, we expect that these guide-
lines will berevised andimproved, especially as FA gains implementationexperience. Groups
that have beenpracticingcommunity forestry for several years arenow able to secure legal rights
over the resourcesthey are managing. We also see scope for expanding community forest beyond
restoring degraded forests into managing higher-value forests, as well. Grant support from the
Japanese government and throughthe Banki s now being putinplaceto facilitate this purpose.

Partnership Forestry Partnership or commune-managed forestry was proposedbythe Inde-
                           -
pendentForest SectorReviewas apotentialalternative to concessionmanagement for larger
scale forest areas.'While there i s no explicit legalprovision for partnership forestry at this time,
there may be scope for the Forest Administration to extend this right to communes under specific
conditions. Partnership forestry pilots are already beingimplementedwith support fkom
DanidaDfID and CIDSE, and couldbe expandedto other communes with further work on the
legal and implementationaspects.

PublicPrivatePartnerships There are also options to combine aspects ofcommunity andpart-
                                 -
nership forestry with commercial forest operations which can strengthen landtenure o f local
communities. We understandthat the Wildlife Conservation Society and the Tropical Forest Trust
are currentlypreparing aproposal for such an operation inMondulkiriProvince andthis could
provide some useful experience.

Realignment of ConservationPriorities- Working closely withthe MinistryofEnvironment
the Bank hasrecently completed an analysis of the conservation systeminCambodia. This pre-
liminary analysis has highlightedopportunities to adjust the distribution of conservation areas to
improveprotection o fhighconservation value forests on the one handandpotentially release
lower conservation value areas for more productive uses.

         One area that we would like to raise as requiringspecial attention i s AnnualBidding
 Coupes.We understandthat the ForestAdministrationplansto usethe sameplanning andman-
 agement standardsas were developed for forest concessionsintheir direct management o f the
 coupe system. However, we and other donors are concerned that ForestryAdministration staff
may lack capacity to implement environmental and social impact assessments, as required under
 these standards, and may face difficulties inworking effectively with local communities to ensure
 sustainability o f forest resourcesmanagement. Implementationo f an annual coupe system will
 present new challenges for the Administration to effectively oversee and control operations at the
 field level. Failureto ensureannual biddingcoupes are implementedwith due attention to trans-
 parency inthe biddingprocess, adequatecommunity consultation, sufficient oversightby Ad-
 ministration staff, and independent monitoringo f any infractions, couldresult infuture conflicts

Cambodia Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


with communities andfurther loss ofimportant conservation values, ashas occurredinother
countries inthe region. We urge the Government to review the capacity ofregionalAdministra-
tion staffto meet the new demandslikely to be placedonthem. The Bank stands ready to support
such areview.

         IhaveaskedMs.HoonaeKim,sectormanager,andMr.PeterJipp,Sr.ForestrySpecialist
to be inCambodia this week to continue the discussion onthe closure of the current Project as
well as onoptions for the future, and our Country Director, IanPorter, will try tojoin them for the
meetingof the Technical Working Group on November 28. Inthis context, and inview o f their
interest inthese issues and to helpbegin a broader discussion with key stakeholders, we are copy-
ingthis letter to the Technical Worlung Group and other interestedstakeholders.

         Pleasebe assuredof our continued support and readinessto assist inthis effort.


                                         Yours sincerely,



                                       [original signedby]
                                         Mark D.Wilson
                                          Sector Director
                            Rural Developmentand Natural Resources
                                           Sector Unit
                                   East Asia and Pacific Region




cc:      H.E.Keat Chhon, Senior Minister, MinistryofEconomyandFinance
         H.E.Ty Sokhun, Head, Forestry Administration
         Technical Working Group on Forest andEnvironment




                                                                                                 76

                                                   Management Report and Recommendation


                                      ANNEX 5

                      LIST OF KEY DOCUMENTSAND REFERENCES

Ashwell, David; Miller, Frank & Diimmer, Ignas. 2004. Ecology, Forest Cover and Qual-
       ity. Chapter 1 of Cambodia Independent Forest Sector Review 2004. Phnom
       Penh, Cambodia: WGNRM.

Associates in Rural Development (ARD, Inc.). February 28, 1997. "Cambodia Forest
       Policy Reform Process." (TA Credit-2664-KH). Technical Proposal. Inassocia-
       tion with Ta ProhmEnvironment, Ltd. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: ARD, Inc.

       August 1997b. "Technical Assistance Project inForest Policy Review." Inception
       Report. ForestPolicyReformProject. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: ARD, Inc.

       May 1998. "Forest Policy Transition Paper for Cambodia." Forest Policy Reform
        Project. FinalDraft. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: ARD, Inc.

Butterfield, R. 1997. LandAllocations and Community LivelihoodsPolicy Issues. Phnom
        Penh, Cambodia.

        1997b. Community Livelihoods and Common Property Resources in Cambodia.
        Phnom Penh, Cambodia.

Cambodia Development Review (CDR). January-March 2002 edition. Volume 6. Issue 1.
        "Questioning Sustainable ConcessionForestry in Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cam-
        bodia: CDR.

Colexim Enterprise. 2003. "Timber Transport Proposal from Tumring Rubber Plantation
        to Colexim Enterprise." Cambodia: Colexim Enterprise.

Conservation International (CI). November 27, 2000. C I comments on the Concession
        Forest Management Plans and ESIA of TPP Cambodia Timber Product Pty, Ltd.
        PhnomPenh, Cambodia: CI.

Cooperation Committee for Cambodia. November 2004. "NGO Statement to the 2004
        Consultative Group Meeting on Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia, December
        6-7,2004.

Department of Forestry and Wildlife (DFW). Undated, circa 2000. Guidelines for Sus-
        tainable Forest Management. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries.
        PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

        August 2000. "Forest ConcessionManagement Planning Manual." Asian Devel-
        opment Bank/World Bank supportedTechnical Assistance, Phnom Penh, Cambo-
        dia: DFW.

        January 2001a. First Year Report on Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting
        (November 1999-October 2000). PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project


      March2001b. Forest ConcessionManagement Planning Manual. Phnom Penh,
      Cambodia: DFW.

      November 2002a. "An Assessment o f ongoing Community Forestry Initiatives in
      Cambodia - Implications for the Development o f a Forestry Extension Strategy.
      PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

      November 2002b. Southern Cardamom Survey, July-September 2002. Interim
      Report. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

      December 2002c. Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
      Project. "Technical Review of the Strategic Forest Management Plan and Envi-
      ronmental and Social Impact Analysis." Everbright Company, Kratie-Stung Treng
      Concession. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: DFW.

      January 2003a. Cambodia: Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Pro-
      ject. "Technical Review of the Strategic Forest Management Plan and Environ-
      mental and Social Impact Analysis." MiengLy Heng Company, Kampong Thom
      Concession. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

      January 2003b. Cambodia: Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Pro-
      ject. "Technical Review o f the Strategic Forest Management Plan and Environ-
      mental and Social Impact Analysis." Kingwood Company, Kratie Concession.
      Phnom Penh, Cambodia: DFW.

      February 3, 2003c. Cambodia: Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot
      Project. "Introduction to Forest Concession Planning, Management and Control
       SysteminCambodia. Training Report 1.PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

      March2003d. Cambodia: Forest ConcessionManagement andControlPilot Pro-
      ject. "Trends in Land Cover Changes Detection between 1996/97 and 2002 by
      Remote Sensing Analysis. Preparedwith the Technical Assistance o f the Consor-
      tium For& RessourcesManagement incooperation with INDUFOR OY and So-
       ciCtC GCnCrale de Surveillance (SGS). PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

      March-June 2003e. Cambodia: Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot
      Project. "Trends inLandCover Changes Detection between 1996/97 and 2002 by
      Remote SensingAnalysis. Preparedwith the Technical Assistance o f the Consor-
      tium For& Resources Management in cooperation with INDUFOR OY and So-
       ciCtC GCnCrale de Surveillance(SGS). PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

      April 2,2003f. Cambodia: Forest ConcessionManagement andControlPilot Pro-
      ject. Mid-Term Review Mission, FebruaryMarch 2003. Final Report. Phnom
      Penh, Cambodia: DFW.

      April 2003g. Report onForest Crime Monitoring andReporting inthe First Quar-
      ter of 2003. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.



                                                                                 78

                                                    Management Report and Recommendation


      April 7,2003h. Cambodia: ForestConcessionManagement and ControlPilot Pro-
      ject. "Guidelines for Control and Monitoring of Log Transportation. Case Study:
      Log Transportationfrom TumringRubber TreePlantation Area to Colexim Com-
      pany Sawmill. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

      May 2003i. Cambodia: Forestry Statistics to 2002. Statistics Section Planning
      andAccounting Office. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

       September 2003j. Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
      Project. "Trends inLandCover Changes Detection between 1996/97 and2002 by
      Remote SensingAnalysis. Preparedwith the Technical Assistance o f the Consor-
      tium Foret Resources Management in cooperation with INDUFOR OY and So-
      ciCtC GCnCrale de Surveillance (SGS). PhnomPenh, Cambodia: DFW.

Development Alternatives, Inc (DAI). September 1998. Findings and Recommendations
       of the Log Monitoring and Logging Control Project. (TA Credit-2664-KH). Main
      Report & Annexes. FinalEdition. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: DAI.

Embassyof SwedenDevelopment Co-operation Section, June 20,2000. Letter to H.E.Ty
       Sokhun regarding "Comments on the Draft Forestry Law." Phnom Penh, Cambo-
       dia.

FAO, UNDP. April 2000. Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting Project. Five Month
       ProgressReport. Executive Summary. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: FAO, UNDP.

       April 2000b. Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting Project. Amendment 1: In-
       vestigations andPreventions. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: FAO, UNDP.

Flora and Fauna International (FFI). November 30, 2002. Comments on Consolidated
       Environmental and Social Impact Assessment report as an Integral Part of the
       Strategic Forest Management Plan for the Koh-Kong and Pursat Forest Conces-
       sions, March2002 by Silveroad Wood Products Co. Ltd. Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
       FFI.

Forestry Administration (FA). June 2004(a). Document Set No. 1.Inventory Handbook.
       Preparedwith the Technical Assistance of the Consortium For& Resources Man-
       agement incooperation with INDUFOR OY and SociCtC G6nCralede Surveillance
       (SGS).PhnomPenh, Cambodia: FA.

       June 2004(b). Document Set No. 2. Forest PlanningHandbook. Preparedwith the
       Technical Assistance o f the Consortium Fori3ResourcesManagement incoopera-
       tion with INDUFOR OY and SociCtC GCnCrale de Surveillance (SGS). Phnom
       Penh, Cambodia: FA.

       June 2004(c). Document Set No. 3. Guidelinesfor the Review of the Forest Man-
       agement Plans. Preparedwith the Technical Assistance o f the Consortium For&
       ResourcesManagement incooperation with INDUFOR OY and Soci6tC GdnCrale
       de Surveillance (SGS). PhnomPenh, Cambodia: FA.

Cambodia Forest Concession Management and ControlPilot Project


       June 2004(d). Document Set No. 4. Forest Systems Research and Modeling
      Handbook. Prepared with the Technical Assistance o f the Consortium Forst Re-
       sources Managementincooperationwith INDUFOR OY and Sociktk Gknkrale de
       Surveillance (SGS). PhnomPenh, Cambodia: FA.

       June 2004(e). Document Set No. 5. TrainingMaterial. Preparedwith the Techni-
       cal Assistance o f the Consortium For& Resources Management in cooperation
       with INDUFOR OY and Sociktd Gknkrale de Surveillance (SGS). Phnom Penh,
       Cambodia: FA.

Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting CMB/99/A05. "Reporting Protocols." Phnom
       Penh, Cambodia.

Fortech. June 1997a. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. Technical Paper
       No.1 : "Introduction to Forest Management Planning for the Royal Government
       of Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       July 1997b. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Information Item
       No.1: "The Objectives o f Sustainable Management for the Royal Government o f
       Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       July 1997c. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. InformationItem
       No. 2: "The Forestry Concession for the Royal Government o f Cambodia."
       PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       July 1997d. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. Status Report No.
       1: "Inception Report for the Royal Government of Cambodia." Phnom Penh,
       Cambodia: Fortech.

       August 1997e. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. Status Report
       No.2: "Inventory and Resource Assessment Requirement for the Royal Govern-
       ment ofCambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       September 1997f. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
       Paper No. 2: "Procedures for the Identificationo f Special Management Areas for
       the RoyalGovernment o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       September 19978. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
       Paper No. 3: "Guidelines for Special Management Area Management for the
       Royal Government o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       September 1997h. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
       Paper No. 6: "Guidelines for Social and Economic Survey o f Communities Sur-
       rounding o f Forest Concession Areas for the Royal Government o f Cambodia."
       PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       October 1997i. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. Technical Pa-
       per No.4 :"Summary Paper on Provision for IdentificationandProtection o f Spe-


                                                                                    80

                                             Management Report and Recommendation


cia1Management Areas within Forest Concessions for the Royal Government o f
Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

December 1997j. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
Paper No. 5: "Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment o f Forest Con-
cessions for the Royal Government of Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
Fortech.

February 1998a. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project.. Technical
Paper No.7 :"Site Visit Report - Kampong Thom, Mondulkiri and Kratie Prov-
inces for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

February 1998b. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
Paper No. 8: "Review ofthe Forestry Sector Training Needs and Training Planfor
the Cambodian Forest Code o f Practice for the Royal Government o f Cambodia."
Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

February 1998c. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical
Paper No. 9: "Guidelines for the Evaluation o f Environmental Impact Assessment
for Forest Concessions for the Royal Government of Cambodia." Phnom Penh,
Cambodia: Fortech.

June 1998d. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Working Paper:
"The Three Tier Management Plan System for Forest Concession Management
for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

June 1998e. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical Paper
No.10 : "Monitoring and Regulation of the Cambodian Forest Code o f Practice
for the RoyalGovernment of Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

June 1998f. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical Paper
No. 11: "The Forest Concession Management Planning System for the Royal
Government of Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

August 19988. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical Pa-
per No. 12: "Forest Extension Needs for Concession Management Training for
the Royal Government of Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

August 199811. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. Technical Pa-
per No. 13: "The Identificationand Management of Special Management Areas
with Regard to the Code o f Practice for the Royal Government o f Cambodia."
PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

August 1998i. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical Pa-
per No. 14: "The Forest Revenue System in Cambodia - Recommendations for
Change for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
Fortech.

Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project


      August 1998j. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical Pa-
      per No.15 :"Monitoring and Regulation of the Cambodian Forest Code o f Prac-
      tice for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

      August 31, 1998k. Discussion Paper No. 15: Montgomery, Phil. "The Forest
      Revenue System in Cambodia-Recommendations for Change." Forest Technical
      Services Ltd., Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

      October 19981. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Technical Pa-
      per No. 16: "Guidelines for Second Tier Forest ConcessionManagement Inven-
      tory for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

      December 1998m. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Part B:
      "The Technical Report for Forest Concession Management for the Royal Gov-
      ernment of Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

      December 1998n. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. "The Cam-
      bodian Forest Harvest Code o f Practice for the Royal Government o f Cambodia."
      Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

      December 19980. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Manual
      No.1: "for the Royal Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
      Fortech.

      December 1998p. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Manual
      No.2: "The Cambodian Forest Management Information System for the Royal
       Government of Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       December 1998q. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. ManualNo.
       3: "Procedures for the Measurement o f Concession Logs for the Royal Govern-
      mentofCambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       December 1998r. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. Manual No.
       4: "Construction Guidelines for Forest Engineering Works for the Royal Govern-
       ment ofCambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       December 1998s. Cambodia Forest Concession Management Project. Manual
       No.5: "Procedures for the Use o f the Cambodia Log Sales Database for the Royal
       Government of Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       December 1998t. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. ManualNo.
       6: "Procedures for the Identificationo f Potential Forest Concession Areas for the
       Royal Government o f Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.

       January 1999. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. Manual No. 7:
       "The Forest Concession Management Planning Code for the Royal Government
       of Cambodia." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fortech.



                                                                                       82

                                                     ManagementReport and Recommendation


       January 1999b. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. Technical Pa-
       per No. 17: "Guidelines for Forest ConcessionManagement for the Royal Gov-
       ernment o f Cambodia." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fortech.

Fox, J. 1997. Social Forestry as a Vehicle for Refieshing Resource Management Institu-
       tions inCambodia. PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

Fox, J. 1999. Customary Land-UsePractices andResource Tenure Systems among Krung
        andTampuenCommunities inNortheasternCambodia. PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

Fraser Thomas, GFA-AGRAR,ANZDEC. April 28,2000a. Cambodia Forest Concession
       Review Report. Sustainable Forestry Management Project. Asian Development
       Bank (TA-3152-Cam). Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, General
       Directorate o f Forestry, Royal Government o f Cambodia. Phnom Penh,
       Cambodia: FraserThomas, GFA-AGR4,ANZDEC.

        June 29, 2000b. Community Forestry Guidelines. Sustainable Forestry Manage-
        mentProject. AsianDevelopment Bank (TA-3 152-Cam). MinistryofAgriculture,
        Forestry and Fisheries, General Directorate o f Forestry, Royal Government of
        Cambodia. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Fraser Thomas, GFA-AGRA,ANZDEC.

        July 18, 2000c. "Interim Forest ConcessionManagement Planning Manual. Min-
        istry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, General Directorate o f Forestry,
        Royal Government o f Cambodia. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Fraser Thomas, GFA-
        AGRA, ANZDEC.

GFA Terra Systems. August 2004. Cambodia. Results of the Independent Review of
        Strategic Forest Management Plans prepared by Concession Companies Operat-
        inginCambodia. Hinrichs, Alexander; McKenzie, Catherine. PhnomPenh, Cam-
        bodia: GFA.

Global Witness (GW). May 31, 2000. "Forest Crime Report: Concessions Serviced by
         "GATRoad" -Koh Kong. "PhnomPenh, Cambodia: GW.

        June 22, 2000. "Forest Crime Report: Old Log Collection by Superwood
        (PURSAT) and Associated Unclaimed Logs." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: GW.

        January 2001. "The Return of Large-Scale Illegal Logging. " A Briefing Docu-
        ment for the Post-CG Meeting on 2gth January 2001. Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
        GW.

        July 2002. "Deforestation Without Limits. " How the Cambodian Government
        failed to tackle the untouchables. London, UnitedKingdom: GW.

        November 30, 2002. Preliminary Assessment of Strategic Forest Management
        Plans and Environmental Impact Assessment Reports - Cambodia's Forest Man-
        agement Options for the Future.PhnomPenh, Cambodia: GW.

Cambodia Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project


      November 2004. "Taking a Cut." Institutionalised Corruption and Illegal Log-
      ginginCambodia's Aural Wildlife Sanctuary. London, UnitedKingdom: GW.

Government o f Denmark. Agreement on "Provision of funds from The Royal Danish
      Government to Global Witness, London, United Kingdom of Great Britain. In    "
      Support of External Monitoring & Audits to validate forest related crimes being
      reported andreported actions have been accomplished. London, UnitedKingdom:
      DanishGovernment.

Grandalski, Richard (Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting- CMB/99/A05), March 30,
      2000. Letter to Mr. Ty Sokhun regarding Illegal Logs and Wood Exports to Thai-
      land.PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

      (Forest Crime MonitoringandReporting- CMB/99/A05), December 1,2000. Let-
      ter to Mr. Claus Mogensen regarding "Global Witness Independent Monitoring
      Contract Cambodia Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting Project." Phnom
      Penh, Cambodia.

GTZ. An Assessment of ongoing Community Forestry Initiatives inCambodia: Implica-
      tions for the Development o f a Forestry Extension Strategy. Phnom Penh, Cam-
      bodia: GTZ.

Kock, Andrew. October 2000. (NGO Forum on Cambodia). "The Development and Im-
      plementation of Forest Concession Management Planning Guidelines - Back-
       ground andProblems." Phnom Penh, Cambodia: Kock, Andrew.

McKenney, Bruce and Tola, Prom. July 2002. Working Paper No. 23. Natural Resources
       and Rural Livelihoods in Cambodia. A Baseline Assessment. Cambodia Devel-
       opment ResourceInstitute. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: McKenney & Tola.

Ministry of Economy & Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries. June
       2003. Manualfor Forest RevenueManagement System.Phnom Penh, Cambodia.

MinistryofEconomy andFinance. July 2002. Minutesonthe FinancialAudit at the For-
       estry and Wildlife Department.Phnom Penh, Cambodia.

Ministryof Agriculture, Forestry & Fisheries; Ministry of Environment, FAO, UNDP.
       April 2000. Field Document 4. Report on Forest Crime Monitoring and Report-
       ing. Grandalski, Richard. PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

MinistryofAgriculture, Forestry & Fisheries. "Decision onEstablishment ofFocalPoint
       to follow-up reports o f the Ministry o f Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries and
       MinistryofEnvironment." PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

       January 31, 2002. Letter to Mr. William Magrath regarding "Cambodia: Forest
       Concession." Attached are lettersfrom the Minister of MAFF to Council of Minis-
       ters.




                                                                                     84

                                                    Management Report and Recommendation


NGO Forum. November 30, 2002. NGO ForumPreliminary Submission on Forest Con-
       cessionManagementPlans.Phnom Penh, Cambodia: NGO Forum.

O'Connell, Stephen. April 2000. "New tiger-monitoring teams to patrol forests" Office o f
       the Council o f Ministers, Cambodia. 2001. Report on Forest Crime Monitoring
       andReporting 2001. PhnomPenh, Cambodia:RGC.

Provincial Workshops on LandAllocation - Kampong Thom and Kratie Provinces, No-
       vember-December 1997 (proceedings).

Ratanakiri NGO/IO NRM Working Group. November 30, 2002. Public Comment on
       Management Plan and EnvironmentaVSocial Impact Assessment o f Logging Con-
       cession in Ratanakiri and Stung Treng Provinces. Gordon Paterson. Ratanakiri,
       Cambodia.

Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC). 2000. "Memorandum o f UnderstandingForest
       Crime MonitoringandReporting IndependentMonitor." PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

       July 26, 2002. "Statement of the Royal Government on National Forest Sector
       Policy."Unofficial Translation. PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

Sarun, Chan (Ministryo f Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries), February 1, 2002. Notifi-
       cation regarding offsetting the royalty payments of "Sun Ly Seng Co." Phnom
       Penh, Cambodia.

       May 24, 2002. Letter o f response to Mr. Ian C. Porter regarding the "Structural
       Adjustment Credit (SAC)" andthe "Forest PolicyReformprocessinCambodia."

Seila. November 21, 2002. Pheapimex Forest ConcessionManagement Plan and ESIA.
       PhnomPenh, Cambodia: Seila.

Sokun, Ty (Director of Department of Forestry and Wildlife), February 8, 2000. "Report
       of Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting Activities inJanuary 2000." Report to
       H.E. Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Phnom Penh, Cambodia:
       DFW.

Song, Chhea (Minister of the Ministryo f Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries), December
       23, 1999. "Report of Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting Activities fiom lSt
       November 1999to 21StDecember 1999." With Respect to Samdech Prime Minis-
       ter of the Governmentof Cambodia. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: MAFF.

       July 3,2000. "Letter to Mr.William Magrath on "The Public Consultation o fFor-
       estry Law's Draft."

The World Bank. August 14, 1996. "Cambodia: Forest Policy Assessment." Joint World
       Bank, UNDP and FA0 report. Washington D.C.: The World Bank, UNDP &
       FAO.

CambodiaForest ConcessionManagement and ControlPilotProject


     December 1998. Cambodia Forest ConcessionManagement Project. Management
      Supplement for the Royal Government o f Cambodia. World BankMission Team.
      Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

     February 1, 1999. "Cambodia: A Vision for Forestry Sector Development." A
      Background Note. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

      February 7, 2000. Country Assistance Strategy, Cambodia. Southeast Asia and
      Mongolia Country Unit, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Report No.
      20O77-KHyWashington, D.C.: The World Bank.

      February7,2000b. Report 13Recommendationof the President, StructuralAdjust
      Credit, Cambodia. Poverty Reduction & Economic Management Unit, East Asia
      andPacificRegion. ReportNo. 7359-KH, Washington, D.C.: TheWorld Bank.

      June 30,2002. Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program, Global and Regional Ini-
      tiatives Component. Completion Report. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

      September 9, 2002b. Overview Process for Reviewing and Evaluating Forest
      Management Plans. Flowchart for FMP Evaluation. Washington,       D.C.:   The
      World Bank.

      December 2003. Cambodia Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot
      Project. "Quality Enhancement Review (QER)." Quality Assurance Group
      (QAG). Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

      February2004. Reforming Forest Fiscal Systems. An Overview of Country Ap-
      proaches andExperiences.Chapter 1.Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.

The World Bank,UNDP, FAO. November 1995."Cambodia: Forest Policy Assessment."
      Joint World Bank, UNDP and FA0 report. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank,
      UNDP, FAO.

The World Bank. FAO. March27, 1996. Third Progress Report. "Forest Policy Reform
      Facilitation" in Cambodia. Joint World Bank and FA0 report. J. M. Lejeune.
      Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, FAO.

The World Bank, WCS. Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program, Global and Regional
      Initiatives Component. "Initiating Biodiversity Conservation in Cambodian For-
      estry Concessions: Testing the Guidelinesfor Managed Forests." Wildlife Conser-
      vation Society (WCS) Cambodia Program. A Final Report. Phnom Penh, Cambo-
      dia: The World Bank,WCS.

TPP Cambodia Timber Product PTE., Ltd. May 2004. Forest Concession Management
      PlaninSeam Reap andPreahVihear Province. PhnomPenh, Cambodia: TPP.

UNDP. 2002. Cambodia's Report t WSSD. "National Assessment of Implementations of
      Agenda 21." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: UNDP.


                                                                                  86

                                                   Management Report and Recommendation



UNDPEAO. January 2000. Forest Crime Monitoring and Reporting. "Inception and
       Quarterly Situation Report." PhnomPenh, Cambodia: UNDPEAO.

United States General Accounting Office (GAO). June 2002. "Cambodia: Governance
       Reform Progressing, but Key Efforts are Lagging." Report to the Chairman 8z to
       the Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Foreign Operations, Committee on Ap-
       propriations, US.Senate. Washington, D.C.: US GAO.

WildAid. SouthWest ElephantCorridor (SWEC). PhnomPenh, Cambodia; WildAid.

       November 29, 2002. WildAid comments on the Concession Forest Management
       Plans, TPP, Silveroad, and Samling. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: WildAid.

       May 19, 2003. Letter addressed to H.E. Chan Sarun regarding Consulting Ser-
       vices: Independent Monitoring of Forest Crime Reporting." Gauntlett, Suwanna.
       PhnomPenh, Cambodia.

Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS). March 2001. "A Wildlife Survey in Southern
       Mondulkiri Province, Cambodia." Walston, Joe; Davidson, Pete; and Soriyun,
       Men.PhnomPenh, Cambodia:WCS.

       March 2002. "Resin-Tapping in Southern Mondulkiri Province, Cambodia. First
       InterimReport.PhnomPenh, Cambodia: WCS.

       January 2003. "A Study of Resin-Tapping and Livelihoods in Southern Mon-
       dulkiri, Cambodia, with implications for Conservation and Forest Management."
       Evans, Tom; Piseth, Hout; Phaktra, Phet; andMary, Hang. Phnom Penh, Cambo-
       dia: WCS.

       November 2004. "Focusing on Cambodia's High Value Forests: Livelihoods and
       Management." McKenney, Bruce; Chea, Yim; Tola, Prom; and Evans, Tom. Spe-
       cial Report. Phnom Penh, Cambodia: WCS.

Working Group on Natural Resource Management (WGNRM), and Royal Government
       of Cambodia (RGC). 2004. Cambodia: IndependentForest Sector Review. Chap-
       ter 1.PhnomPenh, Cambodia: WGNRM. http://www.cambodia-forest-sector.net/

Additional Papers:

Aide-Memoires         Supervision Mission-October 23-29,2003
                      Supervision Mission-April 20-30,2004
                      Supervision Mission-October 18-28,2004


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33865

                                                                                    104                                                                                                 106              LAO P.D.R.
                           THAILAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CAMBODIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CONCESSION AREAS

                                       Bantea           Samraong                         Anlong Veng                                                                              To Pakse                                                                                                                    1997 TO PRESENT
                                       Chhmar
                                                      ODDAR MEANCHEY
                                                      ODDAR MEANCHEY
                                                                                                                        PREAHPREAH
  14                                                                                                                    VIHEARVIHEAR                                                                                                                                                 14
                                                                                                                                        Cherndar                                                                                                                                                               FOREST CONCESSION AREA -- 1997
                                                                              Samraong                              Phnom Tbeng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RA ANAKIRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RATANAKIRI                                                                   FOREST CONCESSION AREA -- 2003
                                    BANTEAYBANTEA                                                                      Meanchey
To Bangkok                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To Qui Nguyen                    TRT REJECTED CONCESSION AREAS, 2003 -- 2004
                                   MEANCHEYMEANCHEY
                 Poipet
                                                                                                                                                                            STUNG
                                                                                                                                                                            STUNG                TRENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                 TRENG                                                                                                         CONCESSIONS UNDER CONSIDERATION -- 2005
                                                                                                                  TPP Cambodia                          Timas
                       Sisophon                                               SIEM REAP
                                                                              SIEM REAP                                                                                                    Sesan

                                                                                 Angkor Wat                                                                                              Stung Treng                               Lomphat                                                                     PARKS, RESERVES, AND PROTECTED AREAS


                                                                                Siem Reap                                                                                                Siem
                                                                                                                                                                                         Bok

              BATTAMBANGBATTAMBANG                                                                                                                                  Everbright
                                                                                                                                                          Colexim                                                                                                                                                           SELECTED CITIES

                             Battambang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                              Tonle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                               Sap
           KRONGKRONG                                                                                             KAMPONGKAMPONG                                                                                                                                                                                            RUINS

            PAILIN
            AILIN                                                                                                    THOMTHOM                                                      ekong
                                                                                                                                                                                  M                                                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                            KRATIEKRATIE                                                                                                                    RAILROADS
                                                                                                         Kampong Thom                                                                                                           MONDULKIRIMONDULKIRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                  Pursat                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                            Kratie
  THAILAND                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Senmonorom

                                                       PURSATPURSA                                                 Tonle                                                                                                                                                                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                      Kampong                                                                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                         TPP Cambodia                                                                 Chhnang                                                                                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                          paS                                                                                                                                                                                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                                                                    KAMPONGKAMPONG                                 KAMPONG CHAM
                                                                                                                                                   KAMPONG CHAM
  12
                                                                                                    CHHNANGCHHNANG                     Kampong Cham                                                                                 12




                              Krong Koh
                              Kong                                                    KAMPONGKAMPONG                                                  PREY VENG
                                                                                                                                                      PREY VENG                                                                                                                  from
                                                                                        SPEUSPEU
                                                                                                                                    PHNOM PENH
                                                    KOH
                                                    KOH  KONG
                                                         KONG                                   Kampong                                                                                                                                                                                    6.5 mi
                                                                                                     Speu                           Takhmau             Prey Veng                                                                                                        6                     illllion
           Gulf                                                                                                                                                                                                    VIETNAM                                                                               hect
            of                                                                                                                                                          SVAY
                                                                                                                                                                         VAY                                                                                             5                                  taares...
                                                                                                                          3          KANDALKANDAL                      RIENGRIENG
          Thailand
                                                                                   4                                                                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                                                                  eko
                                                                                                                                                    gn
                                                                                                                                                                             Svay Rieng                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                        Takeo            cassaB                                                                                                        Hectares
                                                                                                                                                             1




                                                                                                                                                 M                                                       To Ho Chi Minh City


                                                                                                                         TAKEO
                                                                                                                          AKEO                                                                                                                                   Millions2
                                                                                        KAMPOTKAMPOT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ....to 1 million hectares
              CAMBODIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                3
                                      Sihanoukville
                                                                                           Kampot
                                                    KRONG PREAH
                                                    KRONG PREAH                                                                                0       25       50 Kilometers

                                                   SIHANOUKVILLESIHANOUKVILLE                                                                                                                                                                          1997                 1998        1999         2000
                                                                                                                                               0               25                 50 Miles                                                                                                                  2001           2002           2003             2004
                                                                                 104                                                                                                   106                                                                                                                                                                                   2005

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MARCH 7, 2005

