                                                                                                     39818
                ProgressReportto the Board of Executive Directors
               on the Implementation of Management's Action Plan
       inResponse to the InspectionPanelInvestigationReport on the
  Cambodia: Forest ConcessionManagement and Control Pilot Project


Introduction

 1.      On March 30, 2006, the Inspection Panel submitted its Investigation Report No.
35556-KH on the Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project
(FCMCPP) to the Board. On May 16, 2006, Management submitted its Report and
Recommendations in response to the Inspection Panel's                                   Investigation Report
(INSP/R2005-0001/3). Section VI1 o f the Management Report contains an Action Plan
proposedto addressthe Panel's findings. This Action Plan i s presented inAnnex 1.

2.       On June 30,2006, the Board discussed the above reports. The Board endorsed the
Action Plan proposed by Management and asked that Management report back on the
progress in implementing this Action Plan again in six months.' The present report i s
intended to provide information to the Board regarding the progress in implementing the
Action Plan.

3.       Since the project closed before the Inspection Panel Report was completed, no
project-specific actions were possible. Management's Action Plan took a pragmatic
approach, however, recognizing the inherent and ongoing challenges to increasing public
participationinthe forest sector inCambodia while at the same time laying out a strategic
and forward looking agenda for dialogue and exploration of new approaches to develop
more equitable and socially responsible natural resources management.

4.       As the Board is aware, the overall dialogue between the Government and the
Bank in Cambodia has been strained during the past nine months as a result o f the
intensive discussions on strengthening governance and anti-corruption measures; this has
also affected the timing for follow-up activities, including the preparation o f this Report.
This report outlines progress inboth dialogue and implementationof the Bank's program
in natural resources management (NRM), but also attempts to provide a realistic
assessment o f the continuing challenges as the Bank works with Cambodian Government
counterparts to strengthen the legal and policy framework, overcome the inherent
difficulties o f working on issues requiring a highdegree o f inter-ministerial coordination
and communication, and most importantly, close the large gaps between the legal and
policy framework andwhat i s actually happening at the field level inrespect to forestry.

Action PlanImplementation

5.      The implementation of the FCMCPP and the Panel's review raised a number of
important issues related to project design, technical versus broader integrated livelihood
approaches, and environmental and social assessment. Management's Action Plan was

' Thereasons for the delay in submittingthe Progress Report to the Board are explained in paragraph4.

                                           - 2 -


designed to address these issues and consists o f two parts. The first part, which covers
Specific Actions to address issues arising from project implementation, includes actions
across the Bank (updating guidance on project screening and classification especially for
technical assistance projects, promoting use o f strategic environment assessments and
applying broader lessons inthe forest sector globally) as well as actions within the region
(to strengthen community consultation and foster tenure security for indigenous
communities in Cambodia). The Action Plan also lays out a two-phase Approach Moving
Forward based on the development of an integrated Natural Resources Management
Framework. This second part o f the Action Plan outlines a longer-term approach to
building consensus on options and strategies for more equitable, sustainable and
transparent management o f forests andother natural resources inCambodia.

6.      The following paragraphs provide an overall assessment o f progress made on
implementing the Action Plan since June 2006. A more detailed assessment is provided
inthe matrix at the end ofthis report.

Specific Actions Across the Bank

7.      The Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit (OPCQC) has updated the
"Guidelines for Environmental Screening and Classification" to provide additional
guidance on classification and appropriate methods o f undertaking environmental and
social safeguard related actions in technical assistance projects for natural resources
management. The updated guidelines include guidance on appropriate analytical
approaches and consultation procedures for projects that support "process oriented
technical assistance" inthe natural resources management sector.

8.      The Bank is committed to promoting the use of Strategic Environmental
Assessment (SEA) as a tool for sustainable development and encourages its use as a key
means of integrating environment into the sectoral decision making and planning
processes. The use o f SEA in facilitating the implementation o f the Kenya Forest Bill
was the most recent work inthe NRMsector. Terms of Reference have been prepared for
forestry sector SEAs in Liberia and the Democratic Republic o f Congo. The Bank has
also developed a toolkit to provide practical guidance inpreparingSEAs inEast Asia and
inother regions.

9.      OPCQC is carrying out a Bank-wide review on safeguards implementation in
forest sector operations and outcomes o f this review will be incorporated into the Forest
Sector Strategy Implementation Update (SSIU), which will be presented to the Board
later in 2007. OPCQC has also presented seminars and training sessions on lessons
learned inforest governance.

Specific Actions within the Region (EAP)

10.    There has also been some progress on implementing the two agreed specific
actions in Cambodia although neither o f the actions has been hlly completed to date.
With respect to community consultation, Bank staff have been following up with
Government counterparts, engaging with NGOs, and consulting field staff o f the Forest

                                            - 3 -


Administration (FA). National consultations have taken place on the draft "Community
Consultation Guidelines" prepared under FCMCPP and it has been agreed to complete
related work on the field manual within the next six months, with a focus on building
ownership within the FA and transforming the draft guidelines into an operational field
manual.

 11.    On Indigenous Peoples, a draft Policy on Registration and Right to Use of
Indigenous Communal Land in Cambodiahas been prepared but finalization of the policy
and regulations, to enable full implementationof the communal titling provisions o f the
Land Law inindigenous communities, i s likely to require another one to two years. Inthe
interim, senior Government officials have publicly supported the idea o f implementing
interim protective measures (mapping indigenous community claims and providing a
provisional Government endorsement o f the mapped claims) to avoid further land losses
by indigenous communities. The Bank and other donors are discussing with counterparts
inthe Council on LandPolicy how to expedite implementation of the proposed interim
measures, and key aspects o f this discussion have been incorporated in the broader Bank
lending dialogue with Cambodia.

Approach Moving Forward

Natural ResourcesManagement (NRM) Framework

12.     The Bank, through ongoing sector work and engagement in the Technical
Working Groups (TWGs) for Forest, Agriculture, and Land, has deepened its dialogue on
poverty alleviation and NRM with the Government, donors, and local stakeholders
including civil society organizations.

13.     Drawing on lessons learned from the FCMCPP and on the Government's own
strategic and sectoral planning processes, the Bank in coordination with other
development partners has prepared a draft document entitled"NRM Strategic Partnership
Framework." The draft framework explicitly addresses key challenges to sustainable
natural resources management, including cross-cutting issues such as improving public
access to information on land and natural resource concessions, increasing tenure security
for poor and landless households, and improving inter-agency coordination on issues
related to land management and land allocation (such as implementation of the Sub-
decrees on State Land Management and Forest Estate Demarcation). At present, the draft
framework focuses on land administration and management, sustainable commercial and
participatory approaches to forest management, and biodiversity conservation - all areas
where the Bank has been engaged and continues to engage directly with the Government.
Management recognizes that approaches to land and forest management in particular are
evolving quickly in Cambodia and has asked that the document be updated to reflect new
and emerging issues as needed. Other development partners who are working on related
NRMissues (including those working on agriculture and fisheries) are also being invited
to expand the scope o f the framework. The draft framework has been discussed with
Government counterparts and with the relevant TWGs and will shortly be shared with
other stakeholders. Objectives and related focal areas inthe draft framework are outlined
inthe box below.

                                                  - 4 -


14.          When the draft framework was presentedto the Government in December 2006,
senior officials from the Ministry of Finance proposed that issues outlined in the
document be considered for inclusion as milestones and or triggers under the proposed
Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation (PRGO). The task team has followed up on
these suggestions and in dialogue with Government counterparts has agreed on
expandingthe policy matrix to include forestry andbiodiversity issues.

                      Draft Natural Resources Management Framework Outline
Primary Objective:
- To improvecommunities' access to and control over naturalresources
Secondary Objectives:
- To agree among stakeholders on specific challenges that limit progress and strategies to address
them
-- To align policy and regulatorydevelopmentswith piloting and implementationsupport
      To mobilizenew resourcesto close the gap betweenpolicy andpractice
Establish the InstitutionalBasisfor Integrated NRM
- Buildon experience with integratedlanduse planningat locallevel
-- Expandtitling     for privatelands, ruralpoor and indigenous peoples
      Strengthennaturalresource monitoring
Strengthen Property Rights
----- Identify and strengthen existingclaimsto landand other naturalresources
     Resolve the occupancy of state lands
      Implementfair mechanismfor landexpropriationhesettlement
      Strengthen inter-ministerialcoordinationanddispute resolutionmechanisms
      Improvethe quality andtransparency of information
Improve Forest Incomes
--- DevelopNationalForest Program
     Pilot commune-based forest management
     Expandand strengthen community forestry
- Integratebenefitsharing into productionforestry and landuse planning
- Strengthenunderstandingand controlof        forest crime (prosecution, demarcation, etc.)
Improve Conservation Outcomes
-- Clarify legalframework for ProtectedArea (PA) management
     Developsustainable financingplanfor long-termPA management
-- Strengthen and expand community role in PA management
     Developmechanismsand opportunitiesfor greater institutionalcollaboration



Phase I:DeepeningtheDialogue and Building Consensus

15.         Building on the NRM Framework, Management's Action Plan also proposed a
dialogue with the Government and other stakeholders to help define the way forward on
the various dimensions ofNRMinCambodia. With support from key senior Government
officials and based on ongoing dialogue with other development partners in the related
TWGs, progress is being made on a number of issues. Nevertheless, major challenges
remain interms of transparency, governance, and inter-ministerial coordination. It is also
clear that, as forest concession activities have declined in recent years, land grabbing and

                                                           - 5 -


the potentially excessive use of economic land concessions (ELCS)~have emerged as
major threats to forest and rural livelihoods.

Dialogue on Forest Management

16.       The dialogue on issues related to forest management has moved forward since
June 2006 but progress has been uneven. The FA i s currently preparing a National Forest
Program (NFP) to define priorities and strategies to guide forest management and human
resources development in the future. Development partners are encouraged that the
proposed NFP process will include opportunities for stakeholder consultation and
consensusbuilding. It is worth noting that through the TWGs, as well as inother forums,
the FA has begunto engage other ministries-justice, land, defense, and environment -
indialogue on important coordinationissues relatedto forest management andprotection.

17.       In the area of forest concession reforms, the Government has indicated that no
forest concessions have been allowed to resume operations, yet neither have any o f the
remaining forest concessions been cancelled. Recently, the Government has expressed a
desire to resume dialogue on concession reform and Management i s following up on this
proposal. The Government continues to explore alternatives to forest concession
management using a range of approaches including annual coupes, private sector
partnerships and expansion of community forestry. Development partners, through the
Technical Working Group on Forestry and Environment (TWG F~cE),~ encouraging                         are
the Government to explore benefit sharing options, to strengthen forest law enforcement
(including through participatory monitoring) and to choose their private sector partners
carefully to maximize opportunities for learning from global experience and to ensure
sustainable forest management.

Dialogue on Land Management

18.       The Bank is working closely with Government counterparts and other
development partners in the land sector, with the dialogue focusing on a broad range o f
issues, including: ensuring appropriate state land mapping; registration and forest
demarcation; putting in place appropriate mechanisms for approving and monitoring
ELCs; fostering secure access to land for rural poor families; and continuing with the
Government's overall land titling program. In these areas, too, some progress i s being
made (for example, 25,000 land titles are now being issued on a monthly basis). The
management of ELCs, however, remains a major challenge and the Prime Minister has
spoken out repeatedly against the continued problem o f land grabbing. While some

 According to the CambodianGovernment's Sub-decree 146 on EconomicLand Concessions (ELCs), "Economic
Land Concessionsrefers to a mechanismto grant private state land ,..through a contractto a concessionaire to use for
agricultural and industrial-agricultural exploitation". ELCs are generally large land areas (limited by the 2001 Land
Law to 10,000 hectaresthough larger concessionswere grantedprior to the Land Law) up to a maximum period of 99
years. ELCs are distinct from Forest Concessions (for private managementof forest areas for timber) or Social Land
Concessions (distribution of plots up to 5 hectaresto the landless and landpoor for family residential and agricultural
use).
 The TWG F&E is chairedby the ForestAdministration (Cambodia) and coordinatedby DANIDA (Denmark), with
representationfrom the Ministry of Environment (Cambodia), DffD (UK), JICA (Japan), USAID (USA), World Bank,
EuropeanCommission, Asian Development Bank, Foodand Agriculture Organization, United Nations Development
Programme, and the Wildlife Conservation Society.

                                           - 6 -


progress has been made in recovering illegally encroached forest land (some 207,960
hectares of encroached forest land are being taken back from offenders), enforcement
actions to date remain insufficient.

19.     The Bank's continuing support for land administrationand titling (andproposed
support for social land concessions) should help to redress an inherent contradiction -
Cambodia's abundant per capita endowments of natural resources including land in
contrast to high and increasing landlessness among the rural poor. Dialogue on ELCs has
focused on public disclosure o f information on existing and pending ELCs (including
proposed boundaries) to foster public awareness o f potential overlaps with existing use
rightsand thus to reduce the potentialfor future conflicts.

Dialogue on Biodiversity Conservation

20.     The Ministry of Environment has recently completed an analysis of the Protected
Area system in Cambodia, identifying opportunities to improve forest and wildlife
protection efforts both within and outside of designated Protected Areas. Seeking broad
endorsement from the Government and other stakeholders for decisions regarding  '
realignment o f conservation priorities will be challenging given the inter-ministerial
coordination issues. As part of its ongoing work on biodiversity conservation the Bank i s
preparing an "Environment Monitor'' for Cambodia that seeks to identify key issues in
conservation and environmental management and includes a stocktaking o f the Protected
Areas system to highlight and disseminate good practice examples.

Demandfor Good Governance

21,     The Bank is also working on a number of initiatives inrelationto the demand for
good governance (DFGG) agenda, which refers to the ability o f citizens acting alone or
collectively to hold the state accountable and to make it responsive to their needs. This
has involved work on the design of improved dispute resolution initiatives for land issues
and support for a series of radio programs on land rights and land dispute resolution. A
DFGG project is also under preparation that would provide competitive grant funds
directly to civil society groups engaged in information dissemination and monitoring and
would be open to groups working on land and NRM.

22.     With respect to the IndependentMonitor, Management has conducted a review o f
the Monitor's performance and independence. This review concluded that a more
balanced approach is needed, which places equal emphasis on independent reporting and
the Government's own forest crime control efforts/actions. The same review highlighted
the importance o f the Prime Minister providing leadership in this politically charged
sector.

23.     As explained earlier in this report, the governance agenda has also addressed
IndigenousPeoples' rights. InFebruary 2007, a workshop on Indigenous Peoples 'Access
to Land in Cambodia was organized by several local civil society organizations including
the NGO Forum. The meetingwas well attended and provided an important opportunity
for representatives o f responsible Government ministriedagencies to interact with civil

                                            - 7 -


society organizations and other development partners on the draft policy. The Bank is
also supporting and encouraging Government efforts to secure land and resource rights
for Indigenous Peoples, through: facilitating discussion with the Government and other
donors on implementation and monitoring of pilots for Indigenous Peoples' communal
titling; and support for creating a platform for participation of Indigenous Peoples inthe
implementationof the state land management sub-decree.

Phase 11:Approachfor Re-Engagement

24.      It i s still too early to propose a full re-engagement in the forest sector in
Cambodia. As previously indicated in the Management Action Plan, the Bank will
consider new operations in the forest sector in Cambodia based in large measure on the
outcomes o f the ongoing dialogue referenced above and on any broadconsensus that may
emerge. Principles that guide these discussions and that provide broad parameters for the
design of new operations were presented last June and are included inthe attached annex.
Expansion o f Bank engagement would be based on completion o f an agreed forest
strategy among the Government, donors, and key NGOs in the sector and up-front
analytical work and/or piloting adequate to ensure that there i s a shared understanding o f
policy issues, constraints, and opportunities to inform project design.

Summary of ProgressAchieved on the Action Plan and Proposed Next Steps

25.      Management would like to emphasize that while progress has been made with
implementation o f the Action Plan, more work and dialogue are still needed to achieve
consensus on the NRM framework as a whole and on many specific aspects of the way
forward in the forest sector. The Government's efforts to establish greater public access
to information on ELCs must be weighed inlight of continued problems o f land grabbing
and management of ELCs as well as ongoing struggles to identify and secure land and
forest resources for the rural poor and Indigenous Peoples in Cambodia. In the forest
sector new threats seem constantly to emerge while protective measures always lag
behind; yet, with a transparent and participatory process for developing the NFP now
underway and plans to demarcate forest boundaries moving forward perhaps there may
be some improvement in the situation in the near fbture. For the moment, the Bank's
engagement in Cambodia will continue toward building a common understanding of
management alternatives and broadening stakeholder consensus on the way forward.

26.     As discussed above and outlined below inmore detail some actions have already
been taken and several more are currently underway or planned over the course o f the
coming months. The situation in Cambodia remains very challenging, but the Bank i s
committed to staying engaged with the Government and other stakeholders to confront
these challenges and to progressively strengthen tenure and foster greater public
engagement in NRM planning, monitoring and decision making. Pending action plan
activities will take some additional time to complete and are dependent on a continuing
Government      commitment      to  strengthen tenure,    improve transparency,     foster
decentralization, and increase community control over natural resources.

                                              - 8 -


   27.     Based on the progress made to date on implementing the Action Plan,
   Management reiterates its commitment to work with Government and other development
   partners to implement actions already proposed, to continue to deepen the ongoing
   dialogue inNRM,and to report again to the Board on implementation of the Action Plan
   intwelve months' time.

                           Status of Action PlanImplementation
                                          (March 2007)

1


Eavironmental
Categorization                                                                                    cal
                  EnvironmentalScreening
                  andClassiAcaefon" issuedby
                  QACU in 2005 to provide


                  appropriatenlethodsof




                  appropriateanalytical
                  approachesandproced
                  fur consultationsfor proj
                  that support "process




Environinental    Promotethe useof Strategic   The Bank is promotingthe useof SEASinprojectsofthis
Assessment        EnvironmentalAssessments     type and identifyingand disseminating goodpractice
                  (SEAs) andrelated            guidance notes onthe use of suchmethodologies.In
                  methodologiesto support the particular, the Bank is drawingon experiencesgained &om
                  preparationand               the SEA preparedfor the Kenya Forest Bill (March2007).
                  implementationof selected    The KenyaSEA has helpedstrengthenthe policy dialogue
                  NRMprojects to provide       regardingthe sustainable use of forest and natural
                  more informationon           resources for nationaldevelopment. Ithas also helped
                  baseline environmentaland    clarify the political economy factors affectingforest sector
                  socialtrends and conditions. reform; the policy and planningprioritiesfor sustainable
                                               development; and policy measuresandactions to
                                               strengthen institutionsandgovernanceneededto address
                                               key environmentaland socialrisksassociatedwith the use
                                               of forests andnaturalreso~trcesin Kenya. Inaddition,
                                               ?`ernis of Reference(TOR) for forestrysector SEAs in
                                               Liberiaand the DemocraticRepublicof Congo are
                                               currently under preparation.
                                               QPCQC together with the Agriculture and RuralSector

                                  - 9 -


ISSUEIFINDING PROPOSEDACTION                IMPLEMENTATIONPROGRESS
                                  (ARD) Forest team organized a well attended UBLsession
                                  on "FCMCPP" and a training program on "Forests
                                  SafeguardPolicy OP 4.36" for the Forestry Community o f
                                  Practice and other interested colleagues to share the lessons
                                  o f the Inspection Panel case and use of SEA inthe NRM
                                  sector. OPCQC will continue to organize these events, as
                                  part of the ongoing safeguards policy training workshop
                                  series.




                11.ACTIONS TO BETAKENWITHIN THEREGION

                                                 - 10-




IndigenousPeoples'  Recognizingthe urgency of     In December2006 the Councilon LandPolicyissuedfor
access to iand and  securinglandandresource       publiccomment a drafl "Policy on Registrationand Right
forest resources    rightsfor Indigenous          to Useof IndigenousCommunal Land inCambodia."
                    Peoples,make a strongand      Finalizationofthe legalframework, includingregulations
                    immediateeffort (including    to enable full implementationo f the communaltitling
                    providingtechnical            provisionsofthe LandLaw, is complicatedby the needto
                    assistance) in collaboration  coordinateefforts acrossmultiple Government ministries,
                    with other donors and         Government counterparts estimatethat it will take another
                    Governmentunder the 1'WG      1-2yearsto complete boththe policy andthe implementing
                    for Land, to finalize, as a   regulations.
                    matter ofpriority, the legal
                    andenablingimplementing       In February2007 aworkshop onIndigenous Peoples
                                                  Access bo Land in Canzbodiuwas organized by several
                    proceduresrequiredfor
                    makingthe provisionsofthe     localcivil society organizations includingthe NGOForum.
                                                  The meetingwas well attended andprovidedan important
                    LandLaw areality for          opportunityfor representativesofresponsibleGovernment
                    indigenous communitiesin      ministriesiagencies to interactwith civil society
                    Cambodia.                     organizationsand other developmentpartners on the draft
                                                  policy. The Bank's IndigenousPeoples` Advisor andthree
                                                  other Bank stat`fattended this workshop. The Indigenous
                                                  Peoples' Advisor made field visits to two provinces
                                                  followingthe workshop in order to gain first hand
                                                  knowledgeofthe current situationand advise the Bank
                                                  teams workingon related issuesin Cambodia.
                                                  The Bank is also supportingand encouraging Government
                                                  efforts to secure land andresourcerightsfor Indigenous
                                                  Peoples,through:

                                                  0 Facilitatingdiscussionwith the Government and other
                                                    donors on implementationand monitoringofpilotsfor
                                                    Indigenous Peoples' communal titling;
                                                    Support for creatinga platformfor participationof
                                                    IndigenousPeoples in the implementationo fthe state
                                                    landmanagementsub-decree(under the LandAllocation
                                                    for Socialand EconomicDevelopmentproject); and
                                                    Most recentlywith the preparation ofaJapan Social
                                                    Development Fund(JSDF) grant proposalto pilot
                                                    implementationof communal titling.


NRM Framework      Prepareanaturalresources       A draft fTamework document, "NRM Strategic Partnership
                   managementfirdmeworkthat       Framework," has beenpreparedand discussedwith the
                    i s basedon the general       Government and development partners. The framework
                   governancefkamework in         explicitly addressescross-cuttingissues oftransparency,
                   the CAS andthat focuses on     tenure security, and inter-agency coordinationandoutlines
                   the three pillarsof            a multi-yearprogramto address challenges across areas of
                   transparency,                  naturalresourcesmanagement land, forest, and
                   decentralization, and          biodiversityconservation.
                   partnerships.                  The Governmentrequestedthat the framework be usedto
                                                  support the selectionof actions for the upcomingPRGOs
                                                  and to informmonitoringefforts for the NationalStrategic
                                                  Development Plan. Inpreparingthe PRGOfor Cambodia,
                                                  the Governmentand development partners includingthe

                                          - 11-

ISSUE/FINL)lNC PROPOSEDACTION                        IMPLEMENTATIONPROGRESS
                                           Bank have drawn on the NRM Framework indiscussions
                                           on milestones and triggers for PKGOyears 2 and 3       -
                                           focusingmore attention on issues such as secureaccessto
                                           natural resourccsfor Indigenous Peoples and forest
                                           protection measures; and usingthe context o f the PRGO to
                                           foster inter-ministerial dialogue on issues such as state land
                                           rnanagement and the review o f ELCs.
                epenthe dialogue an
Consensus       est and land~ a n a ~ ~ ~ e n t

              conservation, integratingand its




                                                                                 $lethe Government


                                             r e c o m ~ e ~ d a t iprovidedby its own technical review
                                                                    ~ n s




                                             about advcrse governance, social, and ~ n v i r o n ~ e n ~ a l

- 12-

       - 13 -

ISS

     - 14-

x              IMPLE,MENTATIONPROGRESS
        immediate solutions have yet been identified.

      0Social Land ConcessionsA recent poverty assessment
       has highlighted the threat of increasinglandlessnessin
       rural areas (now estimated to be close to 20 percent) and
       emphasizedthe importanceof equitable access to land
       title and related inceiitives for investnientto reduce
       poverty.The Hank is proposingto support the
       Governmentin providing targeted titlingof land for poor
        landless farmers under the Land Allocation for Social and
        Economic DevelopmentProject(currently under
       preparation)The Bank and other dewlopment partners
       haverepeatedlyconveyedto the Government their
       concern that landappears to be relatively.fiedy civdiluhlr
        for ELCs whilc remainingrelatively sc~ll'cefor social
       land concessions targeted to the landless poor.
      3) In relation tu biodiversity consewation, dialoguewith
      the Governinen%and ocher develo
      focusedon:

- 1 5 -


                                            - 16-

                                          Annex 1

  ProposedManagementAction Plan as Presentedin the ManagementReportand
    Recommendationsin Responseto the InspectionPanel'sInvestigationReport

        The Management Action plan is divided into two parts: The first, Specific Actions,
addresses measures arising specifically from the project and broader institutional actions
that Management could apply to other similar projects inthe Bank. The second part,
Approach Moving Forward: NRMFramework outlines a longer-term approach to dealing
with forestry and other natural resources inCambodia.

A. SPECIFIC   ACTIONS

        The project raised a number of important issues relatedto its design, analytical
tools, and environmental and social assessment, which the Panel addressed inits findings.
Drawing from lessons learned and specific commitments that could be undertaken,even
though the project has closed, Management proposes to do the following (a) across the
Bank and (b) withinthe Region (EAP):

Across the Bank:

        Reviewand update the "Guidelines for Environmental Screening and
        Classification" issuedby QACU in2005 to provide additional guidance on
        classification and appropriate methods of undertaking environmentaland social
        safeguard related actions intechnical assistanceprojects. This would include
        guidance to Bank staff on appropriate analytical approaches and procedures for
        consultations required for projects that support "process oriented technical
        assistance'' inthe natural resourcesmanagement sector.

        Promote the use o f SEASand related methodologies to support the preparation
        and implementationof selectedNRMprojects to provide more information on
       baseline environmental and social trends and conditions.

       Take steps to ensure that approaches, such as landscape level biodiversity
       management, best management practices for Protected Areas, and information-
       sharing (e.g., mapping, gap analysis, review o f the Protected Areas system) are
       introduced infuture projects o f this type.

Within the Region(EAP):

       Support the finalization o f the draft Community Consultation Guidelinesin
       Cambodia; also ensuring that the Guidelines explicitly include a reference to the
       legal framework in Cambodia and provide guidance regarding the appropriate
       authorities to inform when "chance finds" occur.

       Recognizing the urgency o f securing landand resource rights for Indigenous
       Peoples, make a strong and immediate effort (including providing technical
       assistance) incollaborationwith other donors and the Government under the

                                            - 17-

         TWG for Land, to finalize, as a matter o f priority, the legal and enabling
         implementingprocedures required for makingthe provisions ofthe LandLaw a
         reality for indigenous communities inCambodia.

B.APPROACHMOVING            FORWARD:    NRMFRAMEWORK

Governance and NRM

         InMay 2005, the Boardendorseda new CAS for Cambodia. Drawing on
extensive consultations with the Cambodian authorities, NGOs, and civil society, this
new CAS focuses on governance, improving donor coordination and partnerships,and
results. As with the previous CAS, the focus o f this CAS on governance includes specific
efforts to improve the management of natural resources, especially land and forests. The
proposed program consists o f a USD 10million IDA grant for a Land Allocation for
Social and Economic Development Project (scheduled for FY08) that aims to provide
land and/or greater security of tenure and agricultural services to the poor and landless. In
addition, the Bank i s preparing a USD 10 million IDA grant for a Land Management and
Administration Project I1(LMAP 11, FY09) as a follow-up to the current support for land
titling from the first LMAP (approved inFY02) that is providing around 25,000 land
titles per month. Project work i s being complemented by Analytical and Advisory
Activities (AAA) on land, forestry and agrarian structure issues that aim to build
consensus among all concerned stakeholders (government, donors, civil society, and
communities) on the way forward inthese critical areas o fNRM.Annual Poverty
Reduction Support Operations (PRSOs), commencing inFY07, will provide momentum
to reforms, not only inthe natural resources sector, but ingovernance, private sector
development, and public financial management.

         Building on the strategy outlined inthe CAS as well as the experience with the
FCMCPP, the Bank's November 2005 letter to the Government of Cambodia outlined a
strategy for going forward inthe forest sector, including concession management,
monitoring, and a range of forest management options. Considering the complexity of
issues related to sustainable forest, landand biodiversity management inCambodia, the
Bank has initiated a processo f engagement with the Government o f Cambodia, donors,
local stakeholders, and civil society representatives ina sustained dialogue on poverty
alleviation and NRM.

         InMarch2006, at the Consultative Group meetingfor Cambodia, donors agreed
that, while significant progress had beenmade on several governance issues, reforms
neededto be steppedup inanumber of areas, includingNRM.Onthe one hand, the pace
o f land titling has pickedup, and transparency o f information regarding economic land
concessions has improved following the concerted efforts o f the donor community. On
the other hand, however, landgrabbing by the rich andpowerful continues unabated and
the Government does not seem to have the political will to enforce its own laws on
keeping the size o f economic concessions to a maximum o f 10,000 hectares, as required
by the Land Law. Currently, for example, it is reported that the Government is
considering awarding a concession of 60,000 hectares to a Chinese company to start a
rubber plantation, which would be inviolation o fthe Land Law. The InspectionPanel

                                               - 18-

report highlightedthe problems the Bank has faced inthe forest sector, and given the lack
o f political will to fight forest crimes, a consensus has yet to emerge on a clear way
forward.

NRM Framework

Drawing on lessons learned not only from the project, but from other lendingand policy
activities, an NRh4 framework is being put together that i s based on the general
Governance Framework inthe CAS and focuses on the following three pillars:

    0    Transparency - Bankengagement will promote increasing public participation in
         decision making and improve public access to information in support o f
         accountability.

         Decentralizationand Local Empowerment -Bank engagement will include
         support at sub-national levels: (i)  to expand community andcommune level
         planning and management o f natural resources; and (ii)   to strengthenthe voice o f
         local stakeholders inthe governance of naturalresources.

         Partnerships -The Bank will work closely with partners indeveloping
         programmatic approaches and integrating forest management decisions into
         broader NRMplanning and implementation efforts. Partners will include TWGs
         for land; fisheries; agriculture and water; and forestry and environment; as well as
         the private sector, the media, local and international NGOs and other civil society
         representatives.

PHASE I:DIALOGUETO BUILD CONSENSUS

         Inorder to reacha commonunderstandingonthe way forward, a major dialogue
with the Government and other stakeholders on forestry and rural development options is
already underway and drawing, where appropriate, on recent analytical work undertaken
by the Bank and others.10This dialogue now needs to be deepenedand would proceed
with the explicit aim of exploringboth the short-term imperative to address concerns
related to access to natural resources by the rural poor, illegal logging andforest land
encroachment, and continuingforest loss andthe longer-term optionsfor sustainable
management of forest resources and will attempt to balance the competing objectives of
biodiversity conservation and expanding opportunities for economic growth.

         The proposed dialogue will touch on several key issues including:

    0    Improving the availability o f informationon natural resources andtheir
         management (addressing the quality, completeness, and frequency o f data
         collection, and improving the transparency o f mechanisms for monitoring and
        reporting, including public disclosure and dissemination)

    0   Development o f a national vision statement buildingon the existing Forest
        Policystatement of the Government o f Cambodia andpreparation o f a National

                                            - 19-


        Forest Plan to guide implementation o f the existing legal framework, to identify
        viable and sustainable forest management options, and to foster a broader national
        consensus on priority actions inthe short and mediumterm.

        Integrating forestry into NRMplanningand implementation(through ongoing
        processes and pilots at both local and landscape levels)

        Appropriate conferral o f use and/or tenurial rights inthe context o f ongoing land
        use planningand demarcation of a permanentforest estate

        Development o f more robust forest law enforcement via enhanced independent
        monitoring; strengthened accountability mechanisms; strengthening Government
        enforcement capacity; use o f remote sensing; prosecution case tracking;
        prosecutor training; and strengthenedcourt capacity.

        Mechanisms to foster inter- ministerial coordination and strengthen governance of
        natural resources and efforts to clarify roles and responsibilities among central,
        provincial, and commune level authorities.

        Consideration o f renewedand expandedengagement on the part o f the Bank
would only commence once there was a clear understanding and commitment on the part
of relevant authorities withinthe FA, the MAFF, and other Ministries with overlapping
mandates (Land, Environment), and upon consultations with other stakeholders.

PHASE11: POTENTIAL PRINCIPLES,APPROACHFORRE-ENGAGEMENT

        Depending on the outcomes of the aforementioned dialogue and on any new
national consensus that may emerge, the Bank would consider a new operation with
forestry in Cambodia. Any significant expansion o f Bank engagement would be based on
up-front analytical work and/or piloting adequate to ensure that there i s a shared
understanding o f policy issues, constraints, and opportunities to inform project design.

       Lending for projects or project components under the proposed engagement
would only take place for designs that are consistent with the following principles;

       Active and Informed Participation of Primary Stakeholders (those most directly
       affected by implementation) - Development and dissemination o f clear and
       concise guidelines for community consultation to ensure mutual understanding of
       overarching objectives and rights and obligations consistent with the existing
       legal framework.

       Conferral of Secure Rights to Land and Other Natural Resources -This includes
       associatedresponsibilities for conservation and sustainable use to communities
       and or households consistent with and supportive o f a developingrole for local
       government.

                                   - 20 -

Collection and WideDissemination of Information - Informationdisseminated in
Khmer on program objectives andproject desigdimplementation at local,
provincial, andnational level to increase transparency and buildpublic
understanding andconfidence inthe sector.

Focus on Integrated NRMPlanning -Effective protectionand sustainable use o f
forest resources though integrated planning and development o f new sources o f
income for forest fringe communities through improved productivity and
economic returns from forests, agriculture, livestock, and fisheries.

Community-basedand Entrepreneurial Approaches -Adoption o f approaches
that encourage communities and entrepreneurs to develop skills to harvest
sustainably, process, and sell produce directly indomestic markets and where
appropriate to seek private sector partners to identify and access international
marketingopportunities.

