                                                                              54940
                               Third Progress Report
                        to the Board of Executive Directors
               on the Implementation of Management's Action Plan
          in Response to the Inspection Panel Investigation Report on the
        Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project

                                            May 2010


I.      Introduction

1.       On March 30, 2006, the Inspection Panel submitted its Investigation Report No. 35556-
KH on the Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project (FCMCPP) to
the Board. On May 16, 2006, Management submitted its Report and Recommendations in
response to the Inspection Panel's Investigation Report (INSP/R2005-0001/3). Since the project
closed before the Inspection Panel Report was completed, no project-specific actions were
possible. Management's Action Plan therefore acknowledged the inherent and continuing
challenges to increasing public participation in the forest sector in Cambodia, and laid out a
strategic and forward-looking agenda to support the development of a more equitable and
socially-inclusive approach to natural resources management.

2.       The Management Action Plan included specific actions to be taken at two levels: (a)
across the Bank to mainstream improvements in environmental screening and classification and
to expand the use of Strategic Environmental Assessment with targeted training to familiarize
Bank staff with these tools; and (b) by the EAP Region to complete: (i) Community Consultation
Guidelines; and (ii) the legal and regulatory framework for Indigenous Peoples' land rights in
Cambodia . Recognizing that a sustained effort would be required, the Management Action Plan
also included a section outlining a phased approach to building a broad consensus with
Government and other development partners on the way forward in the forestry sector (see Annex
1).

3.       On June 30, 2006, the Board discussed and endorsed the proposed Action Plan and asked
that Management provide updates on progress in its implementation. Management submitted its
first Progress Report to the Board in May 2007 and a second Report in September 2008.
Subsequent to the second Report, Management committed to reporting on implementation
progress to the Board again in one year (September 2009). Preparation of the third Progress
Report was delayed, in part because the same staff members were preparing the Management
Response for the Cambodia Land Management and Administration Project (LMAP),1 and
because the team was waiting for key follow-up actions by the Government in the forestry sector
(see paragraph 6 below).




1
 A request to review LMAP was received by the Inspection Panel on September 4, 2009; the Management
Response on LMAP was submitted on October 30, 2009 (revised November 19) and the Inspection Panel's
Eligibility Report was submitted on December 2, 2009. The Board of Executive Directors approved the
Panel's recommendation to investigate the project.
Progress Report Structure and Content

4.      The present Report follows the structure of the original Action Plan, detailing recent
progress and challenges in the text and summarizing progress since June 2006 in table form.
Previous updates and the Inspection Panel Investigation Report are available on the Inspection
Panel Website (www.worldbank.org/inspectionpanel). This Report builds on the progress
reported in earlier Board updates and does not repeat actions that were previously reported.

Summary of Progress and Remaining Challenges

5.       Since the September 2008 Report, Management has continued to confront a number of
challenges in Land and Natural Resources Management (L&NRM) in Cambodia. In general,
there is a well-developed policy and regulatory framework for L&NRM and leadership for policy
implementation from within the respective line Ministries; however, there are both critical
capacity constraints and political interference that result in inconsistent application of the legal
framework. The weakness of formal government institutions relative to political parties and
personal patronage networks means that resource allocation decisions at both central and
provincial levels lack transparency.

6.      Despite these challenges, progress has been made in some key aspects during the period
under review, including the following:

        Completion of the Community Consultation Guidelines ­ The Manual on Community
        Participation in Forest Division Planning to be used in the forest sector to ensure
        adequate stakeholder involvement in decisions relating to forest resource management
        was finalized through a collaboration between an NGO (Community-Based NRM) and
        the Community Forestry Office of the Forest Department in 2009.

        Expansion of Community Forestry ­ At present, 424 sites covering 400,000 ha have
        been identified (by provincial staff of the Forest Administration in consultation with
        local communities) and a number of these have been further processed: 177 Community
        Forest (CF) Areas have been officially mapped; 151 of these are formally approved CF
        sites; another 111 are currently under consideration; the Forest Administration is
        developing ambitious plans to expand Community Forestry to 1,000 sites (1 million ha)
        by 2029.

        Strengthening Indigenous Peoples' Communal Land Rights ­ A sub-decree on
        Procedures for Registering Land of Indigenous Communities to guide implementation of
        the Land Law's provisions related to Indigenous Peoples' land rights was finalized in
        2009, and registration of Indigenous Peoples' land rights in Mondulkiri and Ratanakiri
        Provinces is continuing albeit slowly.

        Finalization of the National Forest Program ­ Following public consultation at
        national and sub-national levels, the National Forest Program (NFP) Strategic
        Framework Document for Cambodia was finalized and endorsed by the Ministry of
        Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in December 2009. It was submitted to the Council
        of Ministers for review and endorsement in January 2010 and approved by the Council
        of Ministers in May 2010.




                                               -2-
         Piloting Forest Boundary Demarcation ­ Forest boundary demarcation has been
         piloted using Bank-executed Canadian trust funds, and scaling-up by the Forest
         Administration is identified as a priority in the National Forest Program.

         Recent Crackdown on Illegal Logging ­A strong public condemnation of illegal
         logging in January 2010 by the Prime Minister highlighted the failure of authorities at
         both central and provincial level to control such activities. Over the past 5 months
         Government carried out several high profile enforcement actions and changed the
         Director for the Forest Administration.

         Implementation of Social Land Concessions ­ Land Allocation for Social and
         Economic Development (LASED), the Government's social land concession project
         funded by the Bank, is expected to transfer land and support livelihood investments and
         services to 3,000 land recipient families through 20 commune-based social land
         concession sub-projects in three provinces (Kratie, Kampong Cham and Kampong
         Thom), where some project sites include forest preservation through communal forests.

         Law and Regulations on Resettlement ­ The Expropriation Law was promulgated in
         February 2010; the draft sub-decree on Resettlement, the sub-decree on Management of
         Right of Way and the circular on Squatter Settlement Resolution are under development,
         drawing on consultative processes.

II.      Action Plan Implementation

7.     The following paragraphs provide an overall assessment of progress made on
implementing the Action Plan since September 2008.

         A.     Actions Across the Bank

8.      This set of actions was reported on in the previous progress reports. During the period
under review, more Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEAs) in the NRM sector have been
prepared, among them assessments for the forest sector in the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Liberia and Yemen. In addition, the use of Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment
(SESA) has become an important tool in the preparation of activities under the program for
Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation (REDD). These actions are also
summarized in the table following paragraph 28.

         B.     Specific Actions within the East Asia Pacific Region

9.       There has been progress over the past 18 months on implementing two specific actions
that Management agreed to support in Cambodia. With respect to community consultation, the
manual noted above and related training materials have been developed to strengthen both the
understanding of the process and the actual consultation skills of field-level staff within the Forest
Administration. The objectives of the manual and training materials are to ensure that
community concerns and interests are adequately assessed and incorporated into forest
management planning. Specific concerns relating to protecting religious forest and memorial
gardens have been incorporated to ensure appropriate treatment of locally-recognized physical
cultural resources. While no specific mention is made to "chance finds" of national archeological
significance, the treatment of such finds, which was a specific concern raised by the Inspection
Panel, is covered by the Constitution of Cambodia and the Law on the Protection of National
Cultural Heritage and other national regulations.


                                                -3-
10.      With respect to Indigenous Peoples' access to land, it is important to acknowledge at
the outset that these communities face continued tenure insecurity. Rights provided to Indigenous
People under the Land Law (2001) are weakened as concessions and private land acquisition
overlap areas that were previously held under customary arrangements. In an effort to address
these issues, the Government issued a policy on Indigenous People's land in May 2009 and a sub-
decree on Procedures for Registering Land of Indigenous Communities in June 2009. The Bank
and other Development Partners (DPs) reviewed these documents jointly in 2008 and wrote
collectively to the Council on Land Policy providing comments and suggesting amendments to
the draft sub-decree focusing on two key areas:

        (a)     Protection of indigenous land pending registration ­ proposing that any
                indigenous community that has taken the initial step of establishing community
                by-laws may lodge an application for the registration of collective title, prior to
                its final registration as a legal entity; and

        (b)     Joining and leaving an indigenous community ­ proposing the draft sub-decree
                be amended to remove the requirement to integrate private land into collective
                title and proposing instead that this issue should be regulated by community by-
                laws.

11.      While these suggestions were not reflected in the final drafts the legal framework
emerging from this process is seen as a modest step forward and a basis for generating practical
experience to inform future iterations of the policy and implementation guidelines. The
respective Ministries-- the Ministry of Interior (MOI), responsible for registering communities as
legal entities and developing locally-appropriate by-laws, and the Ministry of Land Management,
Urban Planning and Construction (MLMUPC), responsible for land survey and titling--can now
proceed to gain experience and confidence through implementation. At the same time, it must be
acknowledged that the titling process will continue to be slow and may be successful in only a
fraction of the total number of indigenous communities. Success will be affected by continuing
grants of land concessions over areas used by Indigenous People; lack of measures to protect
indigenous lands prior to titling; lack of incentives for Government to accelerate titling; local-
level endorsement of land transactions and a range of other factors that weaken the basis for
communal land holding.

12.      A dialogue on a range of community and Government initiatives to address issues of
indigenous land tenure and livelihoods has been and to the extent practicable will continue to be
pursued in collaboration with other DPs through the Technical Working Groups (TWGs) on Land
and Forest/Environment and through the Poverty Reduction and Growth Operation (PRGO)
series, as noted below.

        C.      Approach Moving Forward

Phase I: Deepening the Land and Natural Resources Management Dialogue and Building
Consensus

L&NRM Framework

13.     As reported previously, the L&NRM Strategic Partnership Framework (2007) informed
the choice of specific actions included under its PRGO pillar. This framework also served as a
key reference in developing the National Forest Program. The framework emphasizes: (a)
increasing public participation in decision making and improving public access to information;



                                               -4-
(b) expanding local-level planning and management of natural resources and strengthening the
voice of local stakeholders; and (c) working closely with partners in developing programmatic
approaches.

Dialogue to Build Consensus

14.     The Management's Action Plan proposed a dialogue with the Government and other
stakeholders to help define the way forward on the various dimensions of L&NRM in Cambodia.
With support from key senior public sector officials, and based on the continuing dialogue with
other DPs in the related TWGs, progress is being made on a number of issues (some examples are
cited above). TWG discussions also provide an opportunity to review progress against Joint
Monitoring Indicators (JMI) on an annual basis. However, despite recent advances, there have
also been significant reversals during the period under review. Analysis indicates that as the
influence of private investors has increased with Government administrators, the momentum of
reform in the L&NRM sector has slowed. This trend is particularly evident in increasing
concerns about land tenure security for poor communities living on land claimed by the state.
There are also examples of such land being allocated as economic land concessions (ELCs) or
under long-term leases to private investors without due consideration of the overlapping rights of
long-term residents.

15.     The Bank has used multiple instruments to address various dimensions of the L&NRM
agenda ­ Regional Forest Law Enforcement and Governance discussions, grant- and trust fund-
financed operations (some of which are NGO implemented), and development policy lending
such as the PRGO mentioned above. This last has provided an opportunity: (a) to raise key issues
and foster discussion among partners on inter-ministerial coordination in relation to state land
management and measures to safeguard Indigenous Peoples' lands; and (b) to review with
counterparts the efforts to assess and revise ELC agreements and to bring ELCs in excess of
10,000 hectares in line with the relevant sub-decree.

16.      Progress under the PRGO has been slower than expected, in part due to concerns relating
to progress on ensuring Indigenous Peoples' tenure security. A recent Procedures and Progress
Review conducted jointly with other DPs highlighted some of the causes of delay and possible
areas of support, and helped to develop an implementation schedule. Consultations at provincial
level in Ratanakiri and Mondulkiri on proposals contained in the review will be followed by a
national workshop to define next steps and identify sources of financial support. Some DPs have
already indicated their commitment to supporting the initiatives. The latest progress reports
indicate that survey and boundary demarcation have now been completed in three indigenous
communities and at least three new communities are scheduled to follow in the coming year.

Dialogue on the Forest Sector

17.      In December 2009, the National Forest Program (NFP) Strategic Framework Document
for Cambodia was completed following public consultation at local and national levels. The NFP
was formally endorsed by the Ministry of Agriculture Forestry and Fisheries in January 2010 and
by the Council of Ministers in May 2010. The Government task force for NFP development
included membership from all of the relevant Ministries and DPs and representatives from the
NGO sector. The inclusive and participatory approach embraced by the Government and
supported by DPs helped to rebuild a consensus on the way forward in the sector; as noted above,
however, there is significant continuing pressure to convert forest land to ELCs for bio-fuel
plantations and agriculture. Investors from several countries have engaged the Government to




                                              -5-
explore large-scale land concessions for various economic purposes. These discussions are
seldom transparent or inclusive enough to provide adequate input from affected communities.

18.      As reported previously, the Bank continues to support the expansion of Community
Forestry in Cambodia with a Japanese Social Development Fund (JSDF) grant implemented
through the Regional Center for Community Forestry Training (RECOFTC). This grant, which is
due to close in June 2010, was designed to foster efforts to expand participatory approaches to
forest and land management and participatory monitoring at the local level. As of the date of this
report, 177 Community Forest (CF) boundaries have been mapped; 89 communities have
approved CF regulations; 151 CF management committees (MCs) have approved by-laws; and
203 CFs have elected their MCs with a Deika (official declaration) issued by their respective
commune councils. A participatory land and forest monitoring system based on a community
network was established and is now functioning in 13 communes, helping to identify, negotiate
and resolve issues as they arise. These achievements indicate that the activities supported by this
grant are likely to achieve the overall objective to build the capacity of forest dependent villages,
the Forest Administration, NGOs and local governments to implement innovative approaches to
collaborative forest stewardship and participatory monitoring activities aimed at improving forest
protection and forest-based livelihoods. The Forest Administration has recently announced
ambitious plans to expand Community Forestry from the present 424 identified sites (400,000 ha)
to 1,000 sites (1 million ha) by 2029.

19.      Despite this progress, some established CF areas still face difficulties when overlapping
ELCs are approved without prior consultation. Market forces in the region, including the rapidly-
expanding wood products processing industry and proposals for large-scale commercial
plantations, are bringing new pressures to bear on forests in Cambodia. The World Bank has
recently initiated a study of large-scale land acquisition for agricultural production, to be carried
out in 32 countries (including Cambodia). It is expected that this study will provide new insights
into both the economic opportunities and the governance challenges associated with expanding
Foreign Direct Investment in agriculture and help to distill lessons from global experience that
should inform the dialogue on these issues.

Dialogue on the Land Sector

20.      Dialogue between RGC and the World Bank concerning tenure insecurity and conflict
resolution mechanisms for poor communities has become increasingly difficult during the period
under review. Tensions in both rural and urban areas related to land tenure security have become
headline news not just within Cambodia but in the regional and international press. The Bank
continues to work closely with other donors through the TWG on Land to provide comments and
advice in relation to developing the legal and regulatory framework in the land sector. In its
relationship with Government, the Bank has sought to balance praise for continuing
improvements in the legal and regulatory framework with criticism of gaps between policies and
on-the-ground realities for communities facing threats of eviction or resettlement from rapidly
appreciating urban land. Through a transparent and well-targeted process the LASED project,
financed by IDA, is contributing to improved land and natural resource tenure security for poor
and formerly landless or land-poor recipients.

21.     Despite notable achievements, including improvements to the legal framework and the
issuance of over 1.1 million titles through Bank support for land titling, the LMAP came to an
end in September 2009 when the Government informed the Bank of its intention to cancel the
remaining undisbursed balance of the related IDA Credit. This decision was precipitated by a
fundamental disagreement over the applicability of Bank safeguards to the resettlement of


                                                -6-
residents from the Sras Chok area in central Phnom Penh. As noted above, a Request for
Inspection of LMAP was received immediately following the Government's decision. The
project is currently under investigation by the Inspection Panel. Details about the Request and the
Management Action Plan are included in the LMAP Management Response submitted on
October 30, 2009.

22.      Many of the problems relating to both urban resettlement and ELCs are a manifestation
of a broader issue which relates to competing claims to state land. As the demand for land has
increased rapidly over the past 20 years, people have moved to settle in areas, both urban and
rural, over which the state asserts ownership. These areas may have been historically vacant but
in many cases local decision-makers either granted permission for temporary settlement or turned
a blind eye to their occupation. As land prices have increased, however, state and private sector
investors recognize opportunities to make significant profits from trading in or developing these
areas, often displacing existing occupiers. The absence of proper mechanisms for adjudicating
the rights of existing occupiers or for arranging for their resettlement and/or compensation
renders these transactions prone to dispute. Areas particularly liable to these sorts of issues
include urban slums and the fringes of forests and lakes.

Dialogue on Biodiversity Conservation

23.      A Protected Areas (PA) Law signed in February 2008 established the legal framework
required to secure Cambodia's system of parks and protected areas. The recently-approved NFP
details plans to protect an equally important and larger geographic area of legally defined
"Protection Forest" under the management of the Forest Administration. As reported in the
previous update, the Bank was engaging the Ministry of Environment and providing financial
resources to support preparation of a new operation. The proposed operation was expected to
expand protected areas management to several parks in the northeast section of the country and to
build on the previous Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management Project (BPAMP; closed in
December 2007). The preparation of this follow-on operation was dropped in July 2009, as the
authorities decided that in the context of the economic downturn it was preferable to redirect
scarce IDA resources to poverty alleviation and the social sector.

Dialogue on L&NRM Governance

24.     During the period under review, Forest Law Enforcement and Governance (FLEG)
received increased attention and the Forest Administration undertook high profile enforcement
actions against both military and politically-connected individuals. An offer from the Bank to
support development of an analytical base to assist in the design of the FLEG component of the
NFP was not accepted. However, the FLEG objectives outlined in the NFP are consistent with
the principles of engagement outlined in the Management's Action Plan. The NFP FLEG
objective highlights the need for forest authorities to engage in regular (twice yearly) public
meetings with a range of stakeholders including other Ministries and civil society. The FLEG
component of the NFP also commits to development of a forest monitoring and reporting system
updated monthly and available in the public domain.

25.       Under the Bank-financed Demand for Good Governance Project, the Ministry for
National Assembly Senate Relations and Inspections is preparing to implement a Land Law
dissemination component that will include piloting public forum-style events at the commune
level and monthly roundtables on the national broadcaster TVK, beginning this month. Social
accountability is also being promoted with grant support to civil society organizations. The first
full call for grant proposals will take place in June 2010, but under a pilot Program to Enhance


                                               -7-
Capacity for Social Accountability (PECSA) two grants were provided to support participatory
monitoring of access to land and natural resources in the northeast.



Phase II: Guiding Principles and Approach for Re-Engagement

26.     The Management Action Plan clearly indicated that the Bank would only consider new
operations in the forest sector in Cambodia if substantial progress was made in the policy and
operational activities reviewed above. Moreover, any expansion of Bank engagement would be
based on the completion of the NFP and on up-front analytical work and/or piloting that
adequately ensured a shared understanding of policy issues, constraints and opportunities to
inform project design.

27.      There is a clear recognition that numerous challenges remain and that progress in key
areas, such as tenure security for Indigenous Peoples and conflict resolution, will require
continuing attention. Management reiterates its commitment to work with the Government and
other DPs to pursue implementation of these lagging activities and to explore the use of
innovative partnerships with civil society and private sector as appropriate. As indicated in the
Management Action Plan, the Bank will only consider expanding its portfolio in the forest sector
for projects designed along the following principles: active and informed participation of primary
stakeholders; conferral of secure rights to land and other natural resources; collection and wide
dissemination of information; and focus on integrated L&NRM planning; community-based and
entrepreneurial approaches.

28.     Based on the fact that the actions that Management committed to implement in the
Management Action Plan have already been completed or are of an "ongoing" nature,
Management proposes that the current report be the last update to the Board on implementation of
the Management Action Plan in Response to the Inspection Panel Investigation Report on the
Cambodia: Forest Concession Management and Control Pilot Project. Management will continue
to monitor progress on the issues outlined in this report through ongoing dialogue with
Government counterparts and other DPs engaged in L&NRM in Cambodia.




                                               -8-
                                   Status of Action Plan Implementation

   ISSUE/FINDING                   PROPOSED ACTION                          IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
I. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN ACROSS THE BANK
Environmental Assessment   Promote the use of SEAs and related        Ongoing. The Bank is continuing to promote the
                           methodologies to support the preparation   preparation of SEAs in the forest sector,
                           and implementation of selected L&NRM       disseminating good practice guidance notes on
                           projects to provide more information on    the use of methodologies and doing seminars on
                           baseline environmental and social trends   the preparation of and lessons learned from these
                           and conditions.                            SEAs. In the last year, the Bank has undertaken
                                                                      forest sector SEAs in Liberia, the Democratic
                                                                      Republic of Congo (DRC), and Yemen and is
                                                                      initiating an SEA in Vietnam. The Liberian
                                                                      Forest Reform policy is focused on the
                                                                      commercial, conservation and community aspects
                                                                      of forest management (3Cs). The institution-
                                                                      centered SEA primarily informed the
                                                                      development of the community rights to forest
                                                                      lands law and helped assess capacity and
                                                                      institutional adjustments that were needed in the
                                                                      implementation of the Liberian National Forestry
                                                                      Reform Law of 2006 to improve forest
                                                                      governance and performance within the forest
                                                                      sector. The SEA also examined challenges posed
                                                                      by the interrelationship between the forest sector
                                                                      and other sectors, such as agriculture and mining.
                                                                      In the DRC, an Environmental Impact
                                                                      Assessment has been completed for the National
                                                                      Forest and Nature Conservation Program which
                                                                      also covers the Bank's support to DRC in the
                                                                      forest sector. The SEA in Yemen is focused on
                                                                      integrated coastal zone management policy and its
                                                                      implications for mangrove forests.
                                                                      Terms of Reference (ToRs) have been prepared
                                                                      for a SEA on the cocoa sector in Côte d'Ivoire,
                                                                      which includes an assessment of the implications
                                                                      for forest-dependent communities of the
                                                                      intensification and/or expansion of cocoa
                                                                      plantations, and the analysis of climate change
                                                                      and social issues affecting the cocoa sector.

                                                                      The emerging SEA at Climate Investment Fund
                                                                      (CIF) at programming level helps to screen social
                                                                      and environmental issues at an early stage of
                                                                      implementation.

                                                                      OPCQC, together with the Agriculture and Rural
                                                                      Sector (ARD) Forest team, continues to provide
                                                                      targeted training programs on the forests
                                                                      safeguard policy (OP 4.36), along with programs
                                                                      examining land use management issues in
                                                                      general, as part of the safeguards policy training
                                                                      workshop series.




                                                        -9-
   ISSUE/FINDING                     PROPOSED ACTION                             IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
Protection of Forests of    Take steps to ensure that approaches, such     Bank-wide technical and project work in
High Ecological Value and   as landscape level biodiversity                biodiversity continues to focus on efforts to
Natural Habitats            management, best management practices          strengthen the protection and management of
                            for PAs, and information-sharing (e.g.,        forests of high biodiversity value, both within and
                            mapping, gap analysis, review of the PAs       beyond PAs, including the provision of more
                            system) are introduced in future projects of   sustainable management practices and alternative
                            this type.                                     livelihoods to reduce pressures on forests within
                                                                           PA buffer zones, biodiversity corridors and in
                                                                           critical watersheds. The Bank is also actively
                                                                           informing and engaging local communities in
                                                                           forest management through community land
                                                                           mapping, co-management of resources,
                                                                           indigenous reserves, forest stewardship
                                                                           arrangements and participatory monitoring.
                                                                           Linkages between biodiversity and climate
                                                                           change are also being examined; for example, the
                                                                           Bank's biodiversity team released this year
                                                                           economic and sector work on an eco-systems
                                                                           approach to climate change (see
                                                                           www.worldbank.org/biodiversity or
                                                                           www.worldbank.org/climatechange), which
                                                                           emphasizes the important roles that natural
                                                                           ecosystems play in climate change mitigation and
                                                                           adaptation ­ as carbon stores and sinks, as well as
                                                                           protecting key ecosystems services such as
                                                                           watershed protection, water quality, flood control,
                                                                           coastal protection and other services of critical
                                                                           value to human livelihoods.

                                                                           Regional (e.g., Forest Law Enforcement and
                                                                           Governance, FLEG) and global initiatives
                                                                           contribute to achieving results for the sustainable
                                                                           development of forests and other land resources.
                                                                           The World Bank-managed Program on Forests
                                                                           (PROFOR) launched a program to promote
                                                                           improved forest governance in the Mekong River
                                                                           countries (including Cambodia). The Program
                                                                           aims at strengthening cross-border collaboration
                                                                           in curtailing illegal logging, related trade and
                                                                           other forest crime. In 2009, the FLEG trust fund
                                                                           supported (together with FAO and the
                                                                           Government of Germany) FLEG country
                                                                           reporting covering most ASEAN member states
                                                                           (including Cambodia) and other key Asian
                                                                           countries. The reports were presented in a
                                                                           workshop in December 2009 and in a publication
                                                                           due mid- 2010. This was part of the collaboration
                                                                           on forest governance between the Bank and
                                                                           ASEAN.

                                                                           PROFOR also published in November 2009 a
                                                                           toolkit for analyzing poverty-forests linkage. The
                                                                           toolkit had been piloted in Cameroon, Ghana,
                                                                           Madagascar and Uganda.



                                                          - 10 -
   ISSUE/FINDING                PROPOSED ACTION                             IMPLEMENTATION STATUS

                                                                      New instruments on climate change have been
                                                                      developed (the Forest Carbon Partnership
                                                                      Facility, FCPF, and the Forest Investment
                                                                      Program, FIP) with the active consultation and
                                                                      participation of IPs and communities at program
                                                                      and country level.

                                                                      The Growing Forest Partnerships initiative and
                                                                      the FIP Special Initiative aim to build capacity at
                                                                      local level and to support "bottom-up"
                                                                      involvement in national and global processes;

                                                                      The Forest Carbon Partnership Facility, which
                                                                      became operational on June 25, 2008, focuses on
                                                                      reducing emissions from deforestation and forest
                                                                      degradation (REDD) by helping countries to
                                                                      develop the systems and policies for REDD and
                                                                      piloting performance-based payments for
                                                                      greenhouse gas emission reductions. Thirty-
                                                                      seven `REDD countries' (14 in Africa, 15 in Latin
                                                                      America and the Caribbean, and eight in Asia and
                                                                      the Pacific) have been selected in the partnership.
                                                                      The 13 financial contributors have committed
                                                                      about US$160 million to the Readiness Fund and
                                                                      the Carbon Fund of the FCPF. The governance
                                                                      structure includes a 20-member committee
                                                                      elected by the REDD countries and the financial
                                                                      contributors, six observers nominated by forest-
                                                                      dependent Indigenous Peoples and other forest
                                                                      dwellers, NGOs and international organizations,
                                                                      and the Bank acting as overall convener and
                                                                      trustee, providing secretariat services and chairing
                                                                      the Participants Committee. The FCPF
                                                                      cooperates closely with the UN-REDD Program.


II. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN WITHIN THE EAST ASIA PACIFIC REGION
Consultation and        Support the finalization of the draft          Community Consultation Guidelines ­
disclosure in the       Community Consultation Guidelines in           Completed; field manual and related training
development of          Cambodia; also ensuring that the guidelines    materials have been developed to strengthen
SFMPs/ESIAs             explicitly include a reference to the legal    both the understanding of the process and the
                        framework in Cambodia and provide              actual consultation skills of field-level staff
                        guidance regarding the appropriate             within the Forest Administration (see paragraph
                        authorities to inform when "chance finds"      9 above).
                        occur.




                                                    - 11 -
   ISSUE/FINDING                      PROPOSED ACTION                              IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
Indigenous Peoples' access   Recognizing the urgency of securing land         Legal and enabling procedures ­ First
to land and forest           and resource rights for Indigenous Peoples,      iteration complete (see paragraphs 10-11
resources                    make a strong and immediate effort               above).
                             (including providing technical assistance) in    Implementation ­ Ongoing; but slow progress
                             collaboration with other donors and              against joint monitoring indicators ­ three IP
                             Government under the TWG for Land, to            community boundaries demarcated and three
                             finalize, as a matter of priority, the legal     more IP communities scheduled for boundary
                             and enabling implementing procedures             demarcation through end 2011; implementation
                             required for making the provisions of the        experience is expected to build confidence and
                             Land Law a reality for indigenous                momentum but the coverage is still limited and
                             communities in Cambodia.                         an approach to protection pre-titling is still
                                                                              absent.
III. APPROACH MOVING FORWARD
NRM Framework                Prepare a natural resources management           Completed; see paragraph 13.
                             framework that is based on the general
                             governance framework in the CAS and that
                             focuses on the three pillars of transparency,
                             decentralization and partnerships.


Dialogue to Build            Deepen the dialogue on forest and land           National Forest Program ­ Completed
Consensus                    management and biodiversity conservation,        December 2009 (see paragraph 16 above).
                             integrating and coordinating efforts with        Community/Partnership Forestry ­ Ongoing;
                             government and other DPs.                        achievements to date under the JSDF-financed
                                                                              operation indicate that it is likely to achieve the
                                                                              overall objective to build the capacity of forest
                                                                              dependent villages, the Forest Administration,
                                                                              NGOs and local governments to implement
                                                                              innovative approaches of collaborative forest
                                                                              stewardship and participatory monitoring
                                                                              activities aimed at improving forest protection
                                                                              and forest-based livelihoods (see paragraph 18
                                                                              above).
                                                                              State Land Registration and Forest
                                                                              Demarcation ­ Forest demarcation pilots
                                                                              completed; expansion of forest demarcation
                                                                              included as a priority in the NFP (see paragraph
                                                                              16).
                                                                              Land Administration and Titling ­ LMAP
                                                                              cancelled; under Inspection Panel Review (see
                                                                              paragraph 21 above).
                                                                              Economic Land Concessions Ongoing; Some
                                                                              public information available on MAFF website;
                                                                              39 ELCs cancelled, however concerns remain
                                                                              given the dynamic situation with new
                                                                              international investors entering, and limited
                                                                              institutional capacity to screen / monitor
                                                                              concessions (see paragraphs 15, 19 and 22
                                                                              above)




                                                           - 12 -
ISSUE/FINDING   PROPOSED ACTION           IMPLEMENTATION STATUS
                                     Social Land Concessions ­ Ongoing: Through
                                     a transparent and well-targeted process the
                                     LASED project, financed by IDA, is
                                     contributing to improved land and natural
                                     resource tenure security for poor and formerly
                                     landless or land-poor recipients (see paragraph
                                     20 above).

                                     Environmental Management and
                                     Biodiversity Follow-on Operation: Dropped
                                     in response to request from Government to
                                     redirect scarce IDA resources to quick-
                                     disbursing poverty alleviation activities as a
                                     result of the economic downturn (see paragraph
                                     23 above).




                           - 13 -
                                             Annex 1

     Proposed Management Action Plan as Presented in the Management Report and
    Recommendations in Response to the Inspection Panel's Investigation Report (2006)

        The Management Action Plan is divided into two parts: the first, Specific Actions,
addresses measures arising specifically from the project and broader institutional actions that
Management could apply to other similar projects in the Bank. The second part, Approach
Moving Forward: NRM Framework outlines a longer-term approach to dealing with forestry and
other natural resources in Cambodia.

A. SPECIFIC ACTIONS

        The project raised a number of important issues related to its design, analytical tools, and
environmental and social assessment, which the Panel addressed in its findings. Drawing from
lessons learned and specific commitments that could be undertaken, even though the project has
closed, Management proposes to do the following (a) across the Bank and (b) within the Region
(EAP):

Across the Bank:

        Review and update the "Guidelines for Environmental Screening and Classification"
        issued by QACU in 2005 to provide additional guidance on classification and appropriate
        methods of undertaking environmental and social safeguard related actions in technical
        assistance projects. This would include guidance to Bank staff on appropriate analytical
        approaches and procedures for consultations required for projects that support "process
        oriented technical assistance" in the natural resources management sector.

        Promote the use of SEAs and related methodologies to support the preparation and
        implementation of selected NRM projects to provide more information on baseline
        environmental and social trends and conditions.

        Take steps to ensure that approaches, such as landscape level biodiversity management,
        best management practices for Protected Areas, and information-sharing (e.g., mapping,
        gap analysis, review of the Protected Areas system) are introduced in future projects of
        this type.

Within the Region (EAP):

        Support the finalization of the draft Community Consultation Guidelines in Cambodia;
        also ensuring that the Guidelines explicitly include a reference to the legal framework in
        Cambodia and provide guidance regarding the appropriate authorities to inform when
        "chance finds" occur.

        Recognizing the urgency of securing land and resource rights for Indigenous Peoples,
        make a strong and immediate effort (including providing technical assistance) in
        collaboration with other donors and the Government under the TWG for Land, to
        finalize, as a matter of priority, the legal and enabling implementing procedures required
        for making the provisions of the Land Law a reality for indigenous communities in
        Cambodia.



                                               - 14 -
B. APPROACH MOVING FORWARD: NRM FRAMEWORK

Governance and NRM

        In May 2005, the Board endorsed a new CAS for Cambodia. Drawing on extensive
consultations with the Cambodian authorities, NGOs, and civil society, this new CAS focuses on
governance, improving donor coordination and partnerships, and results. As with the previous
CAS, the focus of this CAS on governance includes specific efforts to improve the management
of natural resources, especially land and forests. The proposed program consists of a USD 10
million IDA grant for a Land Allocation for Social and Economic Development Project
(scheduled for FY08) that aims to provide land and/or greater security of tenure and agricultural
services to the poor and landless. In addition, the Bank is preparing a USD 10 million IDA grant
for a Land Management and Administration Project II (LMAP II, FY09) as a follow-up to the
current support for land titling from the first LMAP (approved in FY02) that is providing around
25,000 land titles per month. Project work is being complemented by Analytical and Advisory
Activities (AAA) on land, forestry and agrarian structure issues that aim to build consensus
among all concerned stakeholders (government, donors, civil society, and communities) on the
way forward in these critical areas of NRM. Annual Poverty Reduction Support Operations
(PRSOs), commencing in FY07, will provide momentum to reforms, not only in the natural
resources sector, but in governance, private sector development, and public financial
management.

        Building on the strategy outlined in the CAS as well as the experience with the FCMCPP,
the Bank's November 2005 letter to the Government of Cambodia outlined a strategy for going
forward in the forest sector, including concession management, monitoring, and a range of forest
management options. Considering the complexity of issues related to sustainable forest, land and
biodiversity management in Cambodia, the Bank has initiated a process of engagement with the
Government of Cambodia, donors, local stakeholders, and civil society representatives in a
sustained dialogue on poverty alleviation and NRM.

         In March 2006, at the Consultative Group meeting for Cambodia, donors agreed that,
while significant progress had been made on several governance issues, reforms needed to be
stepped up in a number of areas, including NRM. On the one hand, the pace of land titling has
picked up, and transparency of information regarding economic land concessions has improved
following the concerted efforts of the donor community. On the other hand, however, land
grabbing by the rich and powerful continues unabated and the Government does not seem to have
the political will to enforce its own laws on keeping the size of economic concessions to a
maximum of 10,000 hectares, as required by the Land Law. Currently, for example, it is reported
that the Government is considering awarding a concession of 60,000 hectares to a Chinese
company to start a rubber plantation, which would be in violation of the Land Law. The
Inspection Panel report highlighted the problems the Bank has faced in the forest sector, and
given the lack of political will to fight forest crimes, a consensus has yet to emerge on a clear way
forward.

NRM Framework

         Drawing on lessons learned not only from the project, but from other lending and policy
activities, an NRM framework is being put together that is based on the general Governance
Framework in the CAS and focuses on the following three pillars:




                                               - 15 -
        Transparency ­ Bank engagement will promote increasing public participation in
        decision making and improve public access to information in support of accountability.

        Decentralization and Local Empowerment ­ Bank engagement will include support at
        sub-national levels: (i) to expand community and commune level planning and
        management of natural resources; and (ii) to strengthen the voice of local stakeholders in
        the governance of natural resources.

        Partnerships ­ The Bank will work closely with partners in developing programmatic
        approaches and integrating forest management decisions into broader NRM planning and
        implementation efforts. Partners will include TWGs for land; fisheries; agriculture and
        water; and forestry and environment; as well as the private sector, the media, local and
        international NGOs and other civil society representatives.

PHASE I: DIALOGUE TO BUILD CONSENSUS

        In order to reach a common understanding on the way forward, a major dialogue with the
Government and other stakeholders on forestry and rural development options is already
underway and drawing, where appropriate, on recent analytical work undertaken by the Bank and
others.10 This dialogue now needs to be deepened and would proceed with the explicit aim of
exploring both the short-term imperative to address concerns related to access to natural
resources by the rural poor, illegal logging and forest land encroachment, and continuing forest
loss and the longer-term options for sustainable management of forest resources and will attempt
to balance the competing objectives of biodiversity conservation and expanding opportunities for
economic growth.

        The proposed dialogue will touch on several key issues including:

        Improving the availability of information on natural resources and their management
        (addressing the quality, completeness, and frequency of data collection, and improving
        the transparency of mechanisms for monitoring and reporting, including public disclosure
        and dissemination)

        Development of a national vision statement building on the existing Forest Policy
        Statement of the Government of Cambodia and preparation of a National Forest Plan to
        guide implementation of the existing legal framework, to identify viable and sustainable
        forest management options, and to foster a broader national consensus on priority actions
        in the short and medium term.

        Integrating forestry into NRM planning and implementation (through ongoing processes
        and pilots at both local and landscape levels)

        Appropriate conferral of use and/or tenurial rights in the context of ongoing land use
        planning and demarcation of a permanent forest estate

        Development of more robust forest law enforcement via enhanced independent
        monitoring; strengthened accountability mechanisms; strengthening Government
        enforcement capacity; use of remote sensing; prosecution case tracking; prosecutor
        training; and strengthened court capacity.




                                              - 16 -
       Mechanisms to foster inter- ministerial coordination and strengthen governance of natural
       resources and efforts to clarify roles and responsibilities among central, provincial, and
       commune level authorities.

         Consideration of renewed and expanded engagement on the part of the Bank would only
commence once there was a clear understanding and commitment on the part of relevant
authorities within the FA, the MAFF, and other Ministries with overlapping mandates (Land,
Environment), and upon consultations with other stakeholders.

PHASE II: POTENTIAL PRINCIPLES, APPROACH FOR RE-ENGAGEMENT

        Depending on the outcomes of the aforementioned dialogue and on any new national
consensus that may emerge, the Bank would consider a new operation with forestry in Cambodia.
Any significant expansion of Bank engagement would be based on up-front analytical work
and/or piloting adequate to ensure that there is a shared understanding of policy issues,
constraints, and opportunities to inform project design.

        Lending for projects or project components under the proposed engagement would only
take place for designs that are consistent with the following principles;

       Active and Informed Participation of Primary Stakeholders (those most directly affected
       by implementation) ­ Development and dissemination of clear and concise guidelines for
       community consultation to ensure mutual understanding of overarching objectives and
       rights and obligations consistent with the existing legal framework.

       Conferral of Secure Rights to Land and Other Natural Resources ­ This includes
       associated responsibilities for conservation and sustainable use to communities and or
       households consistent with and supportive of a developing role for local government.

       Collection and Wide Dissemination of Information ­ Information disseminated in Khmer
       on program objectives and project design/implementation at local, provincial, and
       national level to increase transparency and build public understanding and confidence in
       the sector.

       Focus on Integrated NRM Planning ­ Effective protection and sustainable use of forest
       resources though integrated planning and development of new sources of income for
       forest fringe communities through improved productivity and economic returns from
       forests, agriculture, livestock, and fisheries.

       Community-based and Entrepreneurial Approaches ­ Adoption of approaches that
       encourage communities and entrepreneurs to develop skills to harvest sustainably,
       process, and sell produce directly in domestic markets and where appropriate to seek
       private sector partners to identify and access international marketing opportunities.




                                             - 17 -
