                                   Documentof
                                TheWorld Bank



                                                   ReportNo.: 36435




              PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                   COLOMBIA



                   MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                (LOAN 3336CO)

     URBANINFRASTRUCTURESERVICESDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                (LOAN 4345-CO)



                                   June 19,2006




Sector, Thematicand Global Evaluations
IndependentEvaluation Group

 CurrencyEquivalents(annualaverages)
 Currency Unit =Colombian Peso (Col$)

  Year       US$     Col$            Year    US$      Col$            Year     US$     Col%
  1987        1      243             1994      1       845            2001       1    2,230
  1988        1      299             1995      1       912            2002       1     2,504
  1989        1      383             1996      1     1,037            2003       1     2,878
  1990        1      502             1997      1     1,141            2004       1     2,628
  1991        1      633             1998      1     1,426            2005       1     2,232
  1992        1      759             1999      1     1,756
  1993        1      863             2000      1     2,088



AbbreviationsandAcronyms

CAS                       CountryAssistance Strategy
DNP                      NationalPlanningDepartment(DepartamentoNacional dePlaneacidn)
ELN                      National LiberationArmy (ExercitodeLiberacionNacional)
FARC                     RevolutionaryArmedForcesof Colombia (Fuenas Armadas
                         Revolucionariasde Colombia)
FEDESARROLLO             Foundationfor Higher EducationandDevelopment (Fundacibnpara la
                         EducacibnSuperiory el Desarrollo)
FFDN                     UrbanDevelopmentFund(FondodeFinanciacidndeDesarrollo
                         Urbano)
FINDETER                 Local DevelopmentFund(Financiera deDesarrollo TerritorialSA)
IBRD                     InternationalBankfor ReconstructionandDevelopment.
ICR                      ImplementationCompletionReport
IADB                     Inter-AmericanDevelupmentBank
IGAC                     National GeographicInstitute(InstitutoGeografiqo Agustin Codazzi)
IEG                      IndependentEvaluationGroup(formerly OED)
OED                      OperationsEvaluationDepartmemt(currently IEG)
PPAR                     ProjectPdormanceAssessment Report
RISR                     Resourcesfor SocialandRegionalInvestmentProgram (Recursospara
                         Inversiones Socialesy Regionales)

FiscalYear

Government:              January 1-December 31




Director-General,Evaluation                            : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup WB
                                     -                 : Mr.AjayChh%ber
Manager,Sector, ThematicandGlobalEvaluations           : Mtmmbs
TaskManager                                            : M       r      .    ~      ~

                                                               i


    IEG Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectiveness through excellenceand independence inevaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent EvaluationGroup assesses the programs and activitiesof the World Bank for two purposes:
 first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank`s self-evaluation process andto verifythat the Bank's work is producingthe
 expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions,policies,and proceduresthrough the
 dissemination of lessons drawnfrom experience. As part of this work, IEGannuallyassesses about 25 percentof the
 Bank's lendingoperations. In selecting operations for assessment,preferenceis givento those that are innovative,
 large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudiesor countryevaluations;those for which Executive
 Directorsor Bank managementhave requested assessments; andthose that are likelyto generate importantlessons.
The projects, topics, and an?iyticalapproaches selectedfor assessment support largerevaluationstudies.
       A Project Performancj Assessment Report (PPAR)is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation sy the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by IEG.To prepare
 PPARs, IEG staff examine projectfiles and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the informationprovided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interestto broader
 IEGstudies.
        Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG management approval. Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsibleBank departmentand amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrowerfor review;the borrowers`commentsare attached to the document that is sent to the Bank`s
 Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEG are suited to the broad rangeof the World Bank`s work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibilityto adapt to lendinginstrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluationcriterion (more informationis available on the IEGwebsite:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevance of Objectives: The extentto which the project'sobjectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank countryand sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency: The extent to which the projectachieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at leastcost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustmentoperations.
       Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       lnstitutional DevelopmentImpact: The extentto which a project improvesthe ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. Institutional DevelopmentImpact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest,Negligible.
       Outcome: The extent to which the project`s major relevantobjectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision(including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of developmentobjectives and sustainability.Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



Contents

Preface  ..............................................................................................................................            ..
                                                                                                                                                 vi1

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................          ix

1 The Contextof Decentralizationin Colombia.
  .                                                                                     Background             ..................................  1

2 MoreUrban Services and Credit.
  .                                                              Objectivesand Design                     ......................................   2

3 Responsesto Volatile Demand
  .                                                      .ImplementationExperience.................................                                4

4 . More Services but a Smaller Market .ProjectResults                                              ............................................   6

5 .  Conclusionsand Lessons                    ...........................................................................................       12

Annex A    .BasicData            Sheet     ..............................................................................................        15

Annex B    .Borrower           Comments            .......................................................................................       19

Bibliography      .....................................................................................................................          27


Boxes
Box 1 Summaryof ObjectivesandComponents...............................................................
       .                                                                                                                                           3




This report was preparedbyRoy Gilbert. who assessedthe projects inOctober 2005 Romayne Pereira
provided administrative support        .                                                                            .


                                                           V




COLOMBIA:MUNICIPAL               DEVELOPMENT            PROJECT       (LOAN   3336-CO)

 PrincipalRatings

                                         ICR                       ICR Review*                         PPAR
Outcome                              Satisfactory             ModeratelySatisfactory                Satisfactory
Sustainability                          Likely                          Likely                         Likely
 Institutional                         Modest                          Modest                           High
 Development Impact
 Bank Performance                    Sa+;factory                     Satisfactory                   Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance                Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                   Satisfactory

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsibleOperational division of the Bank,
The ICR Review is an intermediate IndependentEvaluation Group (IEG) productthat seeks to independentlyverify the
findings of the ICR.


Key StaffResponsible

Project                       Task ManagedLeader                 Division Chief/             Country Director
                                                                 Sector Director
  Appraisal                      Vincent Gouarne                  Graham Smith               Ping-Cheung Loh
  Comdetion                      Thakoor Persaud                 Jeffrey Gutman              Olivier Lafourcade




COLOMBIA: URBANINFRASTRUCI'URESERVICESDEVELOPMENT                                  PROJECT(LOAN 4345-CO)

PrincipalRatings

                                         ICR                       ICR Review*                         PPAR
Outcome                              Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
Sustainability                         Likely                           Likely                         Likely
Institutional                        Substantial                     Substantial                    Substantial
Development Impact
Bank Performance                    Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                   Satisfactory

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperational division of the Bank.
The ICR Review is an intermediate IndependentEvaluation Group (IEG) product that seeks to independentlyverify the
findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible

Project                      Task Manager/Leader                 Division Chief/             Country Director
                                                                Sector Director
  Appraisal                      Eleoterio Codato                Krishna Challa              Andres Solimano
  Completion                     Bruce Ferguson                 John Henry Stein               Isabel Guerrero


                                              vii


Preface

This i s the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the following municipal
and urban development projects inColombia:

    MunicipalDevelopmentProject(Ln3336-C0), for which the World Bank
    approved a loan of US$60 million on May 30,199 1. The loanwas closed on
    December 31,2000, three years later than planned, when US$1.8 millionundisbursed
    were cancelled.

    Urban Infrastructure Service Development Project (Ln 4345-C0), for which the
    Bank approved a loan o f US$75 million on June 11, 1998. The loan was closed on
    June 30, 2004, twelve months later than planned, by which time US$26.2 millionwas
    cancelled.

The report is based on a review of project documents, including Implementation
Completion Reports, Staff Appraisal Reports, Memoranda to the President, legal
documents and project files, and on discussions with Bank staff involved inthe projects.
An IEGmissionvisitedColombia inOctober 2005 to reviewproject results andmetwith
over 45 persons including officials of the central, provincial and local governments,
agencies involved inproject implementation, non-government organizations and other
donors, Fieldvisits were carried out to project sites insix municipalities inthe northern
and centralregions o f the country where the missionmetwith intended beneficiaries o f
the projects. We gratefilly acknowledge the courtesies and attention givenby these
interlocutors as well as the excellent logistical support provided by the Bank's country
office inBogotB.

Following standard IEGprocedures, copies of the draft PPAR was sent to government
officials and agencies for their review. Their comments are attached as Annex B to this
report.


                                             ix


Summary
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) oftwo projects intimately
associatedwith Colombia's decentralization reform giving greater sub-sovereign
responsibility for urban development. These were the Colombia: Municipal Development
Project (Ln3336-CO) the "First Project" and the Colombia: UrbanInfrastructure Service
Development Project (Ln 4345-C0), the "Second Project". They were prepared and
implementedover the 1991-2004 period, one o f intense decentralization, a severe macro
and fiscal crisis in 1998-99 and also ongoing insurrection. Bothprojects nevertheless
made important andrelevant contributions to Colombia's recent development. A new
Constitutionin 1991provided Colombia's local authorities and entities-municipalities,
departments (state-level), and their private and public utilities-with   large central
government transfers. The projects helpedbring some order to this politically driven
process, andnurse the newly createdlocal credit market-for        municipalities and these
entities-through    the 1998-99 crisis.
The objectives o f the two projects, to broaden urban service coverage andto expand and
consolidate this local credit market, were highlyrelevant to Government o f Colombia
(GOC) and Bank priorities insupport of decentralization. Bothprojects had similar and
simpledesigns, usingthe LocalDevelopment Fund(FINDETER), created under the First
Project, to rediscount long-termcommercial bank loans to local borrowers to finance
investments inlocal services. FINDETER itself, as recipient o f technical assistanceunder
the First Project, providedtechnical assistanceto local authorities and entities under the
SecondProject. The FirstProject was co-financed by the Inter-AmericanDevelopment
(IADB),but IADBandthe Bankagreedto finance separate, butparalleloperations
thereafter, to simplify procurement management for the Borrower.
The circumstances for project implementation could hardly have beenmore challeng-
ing-sudden decentralization, the fiscal crisis, even an earthquake, andthe ongoing
insurgency. Initially, demand for project finding was brisk, but slowed considerably after
the 1998-99 macro crisis. Together, theprojects investedmore thanUS$300millionin
urban and educational infrastructure innearly 200 municipalities (nearly one fifth o f the
total), With slackening demand for credit, the Second Project was completed on a smaller
scale, and one third of the original loan amount was cancelled.
On the whole, project results were good. Urbanservices for the poor improved in
Colombia over the life of these projects. The coverage o fbasic sanitation, like that prov-
idedbythe projects, for the lowest quintile o fthe income distribution rose from 77.4 per-
cent in 1993 to 83.0 percent in2003. IEGmission visits to several cities notedproject-
specific service improvements behindthese figures. The visits also confirmed profitabi-
lity for (now creditworthy) service providers, albeit at the price o f higher charges for all
users. But IEG found few economic rates o f return(ERRS)estimates to measure the
efficiency o f individual subproject investments.
The local credit market inColombia shrunk after 1998-99, but the SecondProject
prevented even greater shrinkage. Without significant subsidies to new borrowers,
INDETER'Sown loanportfolio continued to grow, andmarket sharerose from 11
percent in 1990 to 48 percent (of a smaller market) in2004. A significant yet unexpected
result of the projects was the establishment o f a credit rating industryinColombia that,

                                                X



 following international standards, has rated local authorities and entities more than one
hundredtimes, with eight cities awarded investmentgrade rating(BBB or higher).
 Still, many creditworthy local authorities and entities in Colombia are reluctant to get into
debt.Municipal treasurers and entity finance directors told IEGhow they thought debt is
basicallybad, and moreover unnecessary to finance firther investment inthe good
quality services they believedthey offered. This i s inspite o f indicators o fpoor service
quality such as very highrates o f unaccounted-for water and lack o f treatment o fraw
sewage of large urban settlements, for instance.
Butthe project didbuildconsiderable capacity among the mainplayers inthe localcredit
market. On average, cities improvedtheir fiscal performance, although with considerable
variance aroundthe mean. The FirstProject helped the expansion o f cadastres, an
important base for better propertytax collectionby municipalities. FINDETER's own
capacity to finance local services was considerably enhancedbyboth projects. An (albeit
smaller than expected) FINDETERhas evenreturned to modest profitability after loss-
making set inwith the 1998-99 crisis and its aftermath. Commercialbanks inColombia
made positive assessments o f FINDETER'S role. But FINDETER's success has brought
it anumber functions to administer GOC matching grant programs that maybeinconflict
with its roleas a lender inthis market.
The overall outcome o f the Municipal DevelopmentProject (Ln3336) i s rated
Satisfactory, as the operation achieved its highlyrelevant urbanservice improvements
andcapacity building.Sustainability is rated Likely, giventhe practicalirreversibility of
Colombia's decentralization. Institutional Development Impact i s rated Highbecausethe
project wrought significant changes inthe way that decentralization made the use o f local
resources more efficient. Bankperformance was Satisfactory, thanks to effectiveness o f
its design and supervision support to Colombia at a critical time. Borrower performance
is rated Satisfactory too, for GOC's effective support to FINDETER.
The overall outcome ofthe UrbanInfrastructureServices Development Project (Ln4345)
i s rated Satisfactory, since it helpedprevent a rapid contraction o f the local credit market
following the 1998-99 crisis, and consolidated market operations. Sustainability i s rated
Likely andInstitutionalDevelopment Impact is rated Substantial for the continued
efficient use o f local resources, even ifthere were few innovative changes inthe way o f
doing business.Bankperformance andBorrower performance are rated Satisfactory
since both parties worked effectively to steer the project to a successful conclusion in
very difficult country circumstances unforeseen at the outset.
Experience with these projects highlights the following lessons:

0    Policy andprograms should continue to focus uponurban services improvements that
     local authorities and entities mustwant to make and finance, if strengthenedlocal
     credit markets are to be effectively put to work.
0    The market for local sub-sovereign credit may be shallower than commonly believed.
0    To beprofitable and still affordable to the poor, local urban services must operate
     very efficiently inorder to keep costs down.

                                                                       Vinod Thomas
                                                                     Director-General
                                                              Independent Evaluation Group      ,

                                                       1


 1. The Context of Decentralizationin Colombia-Background

 1.1       The 1991-2004period covering the implementationo f the two projects reviewed
 here saw the most significant decentralization o f political authority and public finance
 from central government to local authorities' inthe history o f Colombia. Bringing
 governance to local authorities inareas of the country controlledby insurgents-whose
 activities intensifiedinthe early 1990s-was            behindthe pushfor decentralization. The
potentialcontribution o f Colombia's municipalities toward buildingpeace through local
 investment insocial capital was recognized by the Bank too (Solimano 2000 p. 61). The
 1991Constitution, formalizing local democratic elections, increasing central-local fiscal
transfers and enhancing localresponsibilities for public services, was its main driver. It
 also established the numbero fpoor unserviced people as a criterion for allocating
transfers and matching grants, but also earmarked them for specific purposes.More than
halfwas for health and education services, for instance. Law 142/94 made municipal
responsibility for providingurbanservices explicit, requiringthat localutilities adopt
commercial business practices and encouraging privatization and local regulatory
commissions. Extra resources were important for municipalities that hadtypically spent
three times more thanthey raised through their own revenues-mainly                      property taxes.
But,with few exceptions, local authorities at the municipal level especially were too
weak in 1991to take on and administer the new responsibilities. They would clearly
benefit from project support inbuildingmunicipal institutionalcapacity, bolstering
property tax collections and strengthening their sub-project preparation and financing
capabilities, issues correctly identifiedbythe Bank's project appraisal in 1991.

 1.2      Municipal tax revenues inColombia rose fromjust 0.8 percent o f GDP in 1990 to
2.1 percent in2005. The 1991 Constitutionmandated that the local share o f central
government revenues increase from 36.5 percent in 1991to 46.5 percent by 2001. The
increase o f overall revenues allowedmore local debt that rose from 8.5 percent o f GDP in
1991to a peak o f 9.6 percent in 1999, but fell back to 6.1 percent in2004. Inthat year,
local authorities as a whole reported a fiscal surplus o f 0.63 percent, incontrast to the
deficits o f the 1990s. In2004 they accounted for more thanhalfo fpublic sector
investment inthe country, up fromjust one third in 1990 (World Bank 2005 p. 26).

1.3       Inlate 1998 andearly 1999,however, Colombia suffereda severemacro
economic and fiscal crisis and financial meltdown that ledto a 4.2 percent decline o f
GDP in1999. Many differentcauses were cited: increased insurgency inthe country; the
decentralization process itself (IMF 1999; Wiesner 2003 p.11); central government
profligacy (Dillinger 1999 p.2; World Bank 2005 p. 98). Whatever the cause, the
Government o f Colombia's (GOC) response included an emergency tax on all financial
transactions and a halt to lending altogether to the least creditworthy local authorities and
entities-those     classified as "red" by the Ministryo fFinance (MOF) under the so-called
``traffic light" Law 358/97. The result o f these and subsequent measures was to see
liquidityinthe Colombian economy-measured                   byM1-increase        by 75 percent during
the 1998-2004 period. Banks, including FINDETER, found it difficult to place their loans

  Inthisreport, we use the generic term"local authorities andentities" to cover municipal anddepartmental
(Le. state) governments (including the districts o fBogoth, Baranquilla, Cartagena and Santa Marta) and
private and public utilities working for them. Together, these are called entidudes territoriales inColombia.

                                                2


 insuchcircumstances-evidently       not propitious times for local credit to municipalities
 and entities sponsored by the two projects reviewedhere.

 1.4     Nevertheless, these two Bank financed projects-the     Municipal Development
Project (Ln3336), called the "First Project" inthis report and the Urban Infrastructure
 Services Development Project (Ln4354) called the "Second Project"-helped         the
 decentralization process along and attenuatedsome of its more pernicious fiscal effects.
 Colombia's Local Development Fund(FINDETER), the mainplayer inboth projects,
was itself a product o f decentralization, havingbeen spunoff in 1989 from an older
National Urban Development Fund(FFDU), one of the rediscount windows o f the
 Colombia's muchlarger Central Mortgage Bank (BCN). Thus, at the outset o f
decentralization, FINDETERwas poised to help drive a more efficient local use o f
resources to improvepublic services. Itwas ready to receive timely assistance fi-om the
Bank and also the Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank (IADB) for that purpose.

 1.5    All this took place inahighlyurbanized country. Already by 1991,71percent of
Colombians livedincities, aproportionthat rose to today's 75 percent, making for a total
current urbanpopulation o f 35.4 million. Most o f these people already enjoyed urban
services at the beginningof this period. According to UNHabitat figures for 1990, the
year before these projects, 98 percent had improvedwater supply, while 95 percent had
improvedbasic sanitation. By 2002, when the projects were nearly completed, coverage
had increased ineach caseby one percentagepoint. Clearly, there was not much room for
improving overall coverage, but service qualitywas wanting, as the IEGmission found.



2. More Urban Services and Credit-Objectivesand Design

2.1     Despite similar designs to finance FINDETERrediscounting o f commercial bank
loans to local borrowers, there was a difference o f emphasisbetween the objectives o fthe
two projects. The First Project aimed at increasing local services, while the Second
Project sought to expand the local credit market for municipalities and their entities
(details Box 1). While the shift toward more attention to finance was needed, the IEG
assessmentfound that this should not have supplanted attention inthe formal project
objectives to the ongoingneed to improve service quality, in Colombian cities. This
evaluation gives equal attention to the results obtained iiiupscaling and improving the
quality o f both local urban services on the one handand local credit on the other.

2.2     Both aspects-services    and credit-were   highlyrelevant to the policies and
priorities o fboththe Bank and GOC throughout the periodunder review and still today.
The report o f "large infrastructure deficits" inthe FirstProject's S A R may havebeen
overstated, though. Today, it is morerelevantto improve the quality o f existing services
inColombia's cities, where performance indicators-such       as unaccounted-for water, for
instance-are   low, than expand coverage. Also today, an expanded and consolidated
credit market (to help finance these services) remains as highlyrelevant to current Bank
andGOC's priorities o fmacroeconomic stability andfiscalbalance. Itwas also relevant
in1990to Bankconcerns about avoiding excessivelocaldebt through growing
decentralization. Improvingurbanserviceswas a priority at the heart o fthe

                                                                                                                      3


     decentralization drivenby the 1991 Constitctionitself, and hlly supported by the Bank's
     1991 Public Sector Expenditure Reviea tli Icalled for more provision o f urban services
                                                                                                           ~


     locally, avoiding any duplication by central government. GOC's ongoing efforts to
     improve urban services assure the current relevance of these objectives, These still figure
     strongly inthe 2005 CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) for Colombia, although less
    prominently, inthe Bank's later 2005 Public Expenditure Review. Sound financing and
     credit practices are still at the heart of GOC's efforts today to sustain Colombia's hard
    won fiscal sustainability.

    Box 1. Summary of 0bjec;ives and Components

                                             Objectives                                                                    Components (with final costsin US$ millions)

I                                                  MUNICIPALDEVELOPMENTPROJECT (LOAN 3336)
. . . . . .remove. .infrastructurebottlenecks. .andimprovethe. .coverage.
  - to      . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . .            ____________-_____________________
                                                                                                                          A line of credit through FINDETER to finance local sub-
  and operationof localgovernment services,especiallyfor low-                                                             projectsto improve urbaninfrastructureandlocal services and
  incomegroups                                                                                                            to strengthenbeneficiaryinstitutions(appraisal cost 158.2
  - to    improve the financial performanceof Local Authorities and                                                       million; actualcost 181.3 million).
  Entities*                                                                                                               Institutionaldevelopment for FINDETERthroughstaff
  - to    strengthenthe institutionalcapabilitiesat the nationaland                                                       training, equipment, MIS,disseminationof materialsand
  regional level to provide technicalsupport to LocalAuthorities                                                          projectpreparationguidelines (appraisalcost 4.0 million; actuz
  and Entities* and improvethe skills of their personnel.                                                                 cost 4.0 million).
  - to   improvethe municipal resourcebaseby strengtheningthe                                                             Training and institutionalsupport programfor several different
  capability for cadastredefinitionand update.                                                                            agencies (appraisal cost 10.0 million; actual cost 11.3million)
  - to   contributeto the institutionalimprovementof the water sector                                                     Cadastredevelopment with IGAC (appraisalcost 16.0 million;
  companies (added through LA Amendment of 12/97).                                                                        actual cost 7.4million)
                                                                                                                          Water supply and sanitation(appraisalcost 0.0million; actual
                                                                                                                          cost 4.3 million).




  - to   contributeto the expansionand solidification of the credit                                                      A line-of-creditthrough FINDETERto finance local sub-
  marketfor publicautonomous andprivateprovidersof local                                                                 projectsinurban infrastructure(water supplyand sewerage,
  public servicesby enhancing the Borrower'scapacity to finance                                                          urban transport, drainage, floodcontrol, solid waste
  infrastructurein sectorsunder thejurisdiction of the Local                                                             management,bus terminalsand river wharves, marketplaces,
  Authorities and Entities*                                                                                              parks and green areas, slaughterhouses, local
                                                                                                                         telecommunications,education and health, gas distribution,
                                                                                                                         (and others approvedby the Bank and FINDETER) (appraisal
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .cost. .125. .million;. .actualcost. .97.9. .million).. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                                                                                                          . .    . .   . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .




   2.3                 The project design for bothoperations was simple andappropriate to the purposes
   laid out inthe objectives. Inboth cases, the design consisted o fFINDETERusing
   external borrowing (from the Bank and IADB)to rediscount loans madeby private
   commercialbanks to public local authorities and localprivate entities-together                                                                                                                called
   entitades territoriales inColombia-for                                                                  investmentsinurbanservices (up to 100percent
   o f the loan amount ineach case). Rediscounting inthis way didnot expose FINDETER
   to possible default by local authorities and entities. That risk was taken by commercial
   banks that quickly learned about the credit profiles o ftheir local borrowers.
   FINDETER'Srisk, o fcourse, laywith the commercialbanksthemselves, buttheyhad
   never defaulted inthese operations. Localborrowers secured their loans bypledgingtheir

                                                4


 (rapidly growing) transfers from central government as collateral. Project financed loans
were for up to 12 years maturity, more than twice the 5 year maximum term offered by
 commercial banks without FINDETERrediscounting. Interest rates, initially at the long-
term deposit rate plus a five percentage point spread shared equally betweenFINDETER
 and the banks, were initially attractive to the local authorities and entities. FINDETER
was free to adjust interest rates inresponse to market conditions. Later, inresponse to
 slackening demand, FINDETERlowered its spread to a 1.75-3.00 percentage point range,
the higher endbeingfor longer term loans.

2.4     Rediscounting was an appropriate tool for the declared aims o f the projects. It
gave FINDETERoversight over the type o f local investmentsmade-that              was o f little
interest to the commercialbanks. It also gave commercial banks, unused to long-term
lending to local authorities and entities, the confidence to move into a new market.
Moreover, it didnot crowd out private sector finance, since commercial banks were at the
heart o fthe lendingoperations. Inimportant respects, both projects complied withthe
Bank's OP 8.30 onFinancialIntermediaryLending,particularlywith respect to the
careful eligibility criteria and financial analysis for selecting FINDETERas financial
intermediary.For the first project the appraisal includeddetailed financial projectionso f
the then new agency and reference to the reduction insubsidies resulting from the shift
fiom grant to loan funding. The second project appraisal included a retrospective
assessmento f the quality o fFINDETER'sportfolio and firther projections. These
assessmentsultimately helpedensure that FINDETER's financial intermediationwas
carried out inan efficient and sustainable manner. Having recentlymet, indifficult
market circumstances, its covenanted minimum 5 percent average returnon invested
capital, FINDETER demonstrated its sound financial performance under these projects.

2.5     The external fundingand implementation arrangements for the two projects
reviewedhere were quite different from one another. The FirstProjectwas cofinanced by
an IADBloan o fUS$40millioninadditionto the World Bank's U S 6 0 million, andthe
borrower was GOC. The SecondProject was financed by a US$75million Bank loan and
FINDETERitselfhadbecome theborrower, with a GOC sovereign guarantee.
Complications o f applying both Bank and IADBprocurement rules duringthe
implementationo f the FirstProject were citedby the Bank as reasons for IADBnot
continuing to cofinance with the Bank, but instead financing its own stand-alone follow-
on operation with FINDETERthrough a US$60million loan. I&B continues to bevery
active inColombia's decentralization through a US$400millionloanto GOC to support
subnational fiscal reform-in    collaboration with the Bank as cofinancing to a US$400
millionBank Structural FiscalAdjustment Loan(Ln7092), approved inDecember 2001.



3. Responsesto Volatile Demand ImplementationExperience
                                                  -
3.1     The circumstances for implementing these projects could scarcely have beenmore
daunting. Sudden, constitutionally determineddecentralization, an untried executing
agency (whose first loan was madejust ninemonthsbefore Board approval o fthe first
Bankloan), a severe fiscal andmacroeconomic crisis, amajor earthquake intheproject
city o fArmenia. All this was duringan ongoing insurgency throughout the country.

                                                5


Nevertheless, implementationwent well and progress reporting, project accounting,
financial audits and environmental assessments were all pursueddiligently. All these
normalrequirements of implementation were spelledout explicitly inthe projects'
operational manuals. Monitoring and evaluation o fboth projects was carried out
efficiently by FINDETER, leading to a broad set o f outcome indicators as reported
throughout this PPAR.

3.2     Despite a slow start, demand for financing under the First Project became brisk
and 88 percent o f the loanwas disbursedby the original closing date. This was despite
initially cumbersome procedures of loan and rediscounting approvals. Nevertheless,
project closing was extended a further three years-during which only 8 percent more o f
the loanwas disbursed-for      more technical assistanceto water companies and to
complete the morose cadastre component. This delay meant havingto guide a project-
that should have already been completed before it-through       the protracted fiscal crisis.

3.3     Bycompletionin2000, the FirstProject hadenabled investments o fUS$208
million in 179 municipalities (16 percent o fthe total) that were reasonably free o fthe
insurgency. Violent conflict, that peakedin 1992 as the First Project was getting under
way, particularly targetedthe more dynamic municipal administrations that were less
accommodating to the demands of insurgents(Hommes 1995 p.10). The project's
encounter with rebels was an inevitable and, indeed, purposeful by-product o f
decentralization's aim o fbringingofficial governance to all regions o f the country. The
IEGmissionmet with project personnelwho hadbeenheldcaptive bythe FARC
guerrillas for extended periods. But it did not prevent implementation. Despitethis, more
than 150 sub-projects were financed-several      benefiting more thanjust one municipality.
60 percent o f all sub-projects were for urban streets andwater supply. Sub-projects from
other sectors, such as healthcenters, abattoirs, telephone networks and urbanparks were
also financed, but on a smaller scale. Even so, the average sub-project was more than
double that expected and privately runutilities were more prominent among final local
borrowers than anticipated.

3.4     As the SecondProject becameeffectivein 1998just as the fiscal crisis hit
Colombia, demand for its financing fell immediately. Suddenly, GOC was inno fiscal
position to bail out weak borrowers, as hadtraditionallybeenthe case, making
creditors-apart    from FINDETER-run.        Soon, GOC controls to squeeze credit made all
local lendingmore difficult (Wiesner 2003 p. 48). Among the keymeasures, Law 358/97
placed a ceiling on local debt service, beingno higher than 40 percent o f savings, and
Law 617/00 tightened local fiscal discipline, while Law 819/03 enshrined the fiscal
responsibility o f local authorities. To help compensate for this, FINDETERhad
considerably speeded loanprocessing, throughwhat they called "automatic
rediscounting" that ensuredmuchquicker local access to loan funds once approved.
Localborrowers with whom the IEGmissionmet all found the new procedures to be very
effective. Nevertheless, by the original closingdate, just 52 percent o fthe second loan
hadbeen disbursed, leading to the cancellation o fUS$26 million, one thirdo f the Bank
commitment. Nearly all the outstandingbalance o f the truncated loan was disbursed
duringthe one year extension. Violent conflict, whichpeaked again in2001,also
dampened demandand limitedthe project's geographical reach. By2002, the violence
had forced 246 mayors (22 percent o f Colombia's total) to flee their municipalities. With

                                                6


 greater security, 191o fthem returnedhome by 2003. Inthese very difficult
circumstances, the project supported nearly US$lOO million o f local investmentsthrough
60 local subprojects.

3.5      Unusually for financing aimed at local urban services, 62 percent o f the sub-
projects funded by the Second Project were for education, particularly invery
creditworthy universities,rather than the schools mentioned inthe PAD. Education, it
should be remembered, was a GOC priority indecentralization. The remaining 38
percent, more conventionally for this kindo f operation, went to traditional urban
infrastructure, particularly water supply andbasic sanitation. This result represented a
shift away from thepriority givento basic urban servicesunder the First Project.

3.6      There can be little doubt that project implementation was not helpedby additional
responsibilities givento FINDETERduringthe life o fthese two operations. As early as
 1994, the Bank and IADB expressed concern that FINDETER's newly acquired
responsibilityfor managingGOC's matching grants programs, for instance-that
continues to the present day-negatively     affects project performance for two reasons.
First, it distracts FINDETERfrom its rediscounting role inthe local credit market,and
secondly the matching grant funding often competed with (and evidently undermined)
loans offered by commercialbanks for the same purposes.



4, M o r e Services but a Smaller Market - Project Results

URBAN    SERVICE IMPROVEMENTS

4.1     As mentioned earlier, bothprojects contributedto the increased coverage ofurban
service provisioninone insix o f Colombia's municipalities-an       explicit objective o fthe
FirstProject. Sub-projects inspected duringIEGmissionfield trips hadclearly improved
the lives oflow income groups. For the country as awhole, data show that service
coverage for those inthe lowest quintile o f the income distribution improved significantly
between 1993 and 2003; 80.4 percent to 91.4 percent for Electricity; 77.4 per cent to 83.0
percent for Basic Sanitation; and 17.8 to 32.9 percent for fixed line telephony
(FEDESARROLLO 2004 p.49). Onthe downside for consumers, all income groups now
have to pay muchmore for these services. Household expenditures on services rose as
follows between 1997 and 2003: 82.9 percent for electricity; 53.9 percent for drinking
water; 204.3 percent for basic sanitation; and 81.O percent for fixed line telephones. One
negative result for families inthe lowest quintile is that 12.3 percent o f their total
household expenditure now goes for drinkingwater-when          a maximum o f 5 percent i s
the typical parameter for this share inBank financed water projects. IEGfrequentlyheard
complaints from low-incomeresidents about the highcost o f these services. Thus both
projects didbringurbanservices to low-income groups, albeit at a highcost to them-
even though the SecondProject didnot specificallytarget the poor.

4.2     Observations made bythe IEGmissionduringsite visits confirmed these broader
findings. InColombia's fourth largest city, Barranquilla, on the country's northern coast
(population 1.9 million), the Second Project financed FINDETER's rediscountingo f a

                                                        7


commercial bank loan to the localprivate water utility, to extend the water supply
network to the south-western zone of the city where 304,000 low-income people live and
now have a reliable, but expensive service. This was aprofitable operation for the utility
that encountered no difficulties in servicing the loan. InPereira, a city o f 0.6 million
inhabitants inColombia's coffee country, the First Project similarly financed investments
to extend the local telephone network to a poorer neighborhood where it added 28,900
more connections. Random checks showed that it was functioning well inthis
neighborhood, as users themselves confirmedto the IEGmission. Inthe center of the
same city, the SecondProject financed extensive street repaving. InCartagena, an
important historical port on Colombia's northerncoast (population 1.O million), the
Second Project made an (unconventional) urban service investmentto build substantial
extensions (including a library) to the Universityo f Cartagena campus. Duringthe IEG
missionvisit, the new facilities were well usedby mostly low-income students, attracted
bythe low fees charged. Onthe other hand, the borrower, the University's Special
FundingBoard (Junta de Estampilla), was very wealthy, given its earmarked receipt of
one percent o f all construction investments inthe Bolivar Department (state) o fwhich
Cartagena i s the capital. While makingthis Boardvery creditworthy for project
financing, the efficiency o f this earniarking for the overall economy must be questioned,
having led inthe past to the construction o f a largeuniversity hospitalbuilding (not
financed by the project) which has remained unusedsince its completion five years ago.

4.3      At the broader sub-project level, questions arise about the efficiency ofthe project
investmentswhen economic rates ofreturn(ERRs) were reported for so few ofthem. For
the FirstProject, ERRswerenot systematically estimated either at appraisal or
completion, eventhough the kindo f sub-projects foreseen lent themselves to this kindo f
analysis. The ICR of the FirstProject gives as reasons for the lack o f ERRs: frequent staff
turnover; difficulty o f locatinginitial analyses; andproblems inestimating current
benefits-all     indicators o fweak project management. For the Second Project, the
appraisal estimated an ERR o f 31.8 percent, while none was estimated at completion
(although the ICR do& not explain-nor                could the IEGmission-why         this was not
done).

4.4      The quality o f some o fthese services is indoubt. Otherwise efficient utilities
report very highlevels o f unaccounted-for water, for instance, inevitably boostingthe
costs o f the service that were easily observed on the ground. Also, large cities like Pereira
(population 0.6 million) continue to bewithout sewage treatment inan ecologically
sensitive zone for tourism and agriculture.

IMPACTUPONTHE LOCAL               CREDIT MARKET

4.5      As the localcredit market inColombia shrunk significantly since the 1998-99
crisis, we cannot conclude that the Second Project contributedto the market expansion
and solidificationthat the project intended.' As mentionedearlier, MOFdata show that
debt heldby localauthorities fell from 9.6 percent o fGDP in 1999 to 6.2percent o fGDP

 The effects o f the FirstProject (Ln3336), implemented duringthe period o f fastest growth o f the local
credit market, are not considered here because the earlier expansion has beenlost and expanding local
credit was not an explicit objective o f that operation.

                                                8


 in2004-a     smaller share thanwhen decentralization got under way 1991 (MOF 2004
 p.5). Inrecent years, the decline of local credit even ledto negative capital flows to the
 Departmental(state) level as repayments exceednew disbursements (Ibid.). InUS dollar
 terms, the shrinkage of the local credit market measuredby banking claims on local
 government was even greater, falling from US$2.4 billion in 1999 to US$1.4 billionin
 2004 (IMF 2005).

 4.6     Without the Second Project, however, the shrinkage may have been even worse.
 While the market as a whole contracted, the project helpedensure that FINDETER's
 lendingcontinued to grow (against thebroader downward trend), therebyhelpingthe
 local credit market survive the 1998-99 crisis. As a direct result of these projects,
 FTNDETER's loanportfolio grew morethan twenty-fold from US$29.9 million
 equivalent in 1990 (the first year o f operations) to US$643.9 million in2004. Continuing
 to grow while the overall market was shrinkingmeant that FINDETER'smarket share
 expanded from 11percent in 1990 to 48 percent in2004. Beingresponsible for nearly
halfthe market, meant that FINDETERbrought resilience to a local credit market to help
 it weather and survive the storm o f 1998-99-a     valuable result o fthe project.

 4.7     Through its interviews with local borrowers, the IEGmission notedreluctance
among creditworthy borrowers, whether municipalities or utilities, to get further into
debt. To them debt appears to be a badthing initself, something to be avoided or paid off
quickly ifunavoidable. Evenfor a small, creditworthy city, such as Santa Rosa de Cabal
(population 59,000, some 200 kilometers east o f the capital Bogoth), local officials
explainedto IEGthat did not see why they should borrow since they hadno investment
projects inneedo f debt financing. They felt that serviceprovisionwas already adequate
and not inneedof further investment, so why get into debt?Similarly, the kguas de
Manizales utility, proudly told IEGthat they hadnot taken any new loans since 2000,
even though 45 percent o f their water supplywas unaccounted-for (non-revenue)
water-when     good practice i s to keepthis below the 20-25 percent range. But consumers
still paid-with  complaints, o f course-the    highprices resultingfrom'this inefficiency.
Clearly, local authorities and entities inundated with offers of credit bybanks-pre-
approved to the tune o f 13 millioninManizales, for example-should         bemore aware o f
the need to improve the services they provide. They have to want to improve their
services. At this writingwith liquidityinthe economy still high, banks (including
FTNDETER)have to make great efforts to place loans, but local authorities andentities,
too, have to make greater efforts to providebetter quality services.

4.8     Bothprojects nevertheless didhelp make anumber of improvements to the local
credit market.The projects' twelve years experience o frediscounting credit for local
authorities and entities acquainted both borrowers and lenders with the ins and outs o fthe
financial analysis necessary tojustify such operations. Commercialbanksbegan long-
term local lendingfor the first time, even though such lendingtoday still amounts to no
more thantwo percent o f their lendingportfolios. The projects also helped nurture a
creditworthiness culture, at least through highlightingeligibleborrowers and showing
what weaker local authorities and entities hadto do to become creditworthy. The projects
introducedtight arrangements to guarantee loans through pledges o f local transfers,
which ensuredthat there were no non-performing loans. Ifthere i s a downside, especially
consideringdecentralization's aim o fbringinggovernance to innermost reacheso f

                                                 9


 Colombia's rebel controlled interior, it is the undue concentration o f credit. The ten
 largest cities-Bogota,    Cali, Baranquilla?Medellin, Manizales, Ibague, Cartagena,
 Cucuta, Pereira, and Armenia-alone       account for 81 percent of the total local debt
 outstanding.

4.9      A significant yet largely unexpected result ofthese projects was the establishment
 o f a credit rating industryinColombia that covers localborrowers. For these, credit
ratings grew out o f Colombia's so-called "traffic light" law (Ley de Sembforos) o f 1997,
that required MOF grad-?all local authorities and entities according to a "red-yellow-
green" rating, indicatin: their eligibility for credit. Since then, two specialized credit
rating agencies, affiliated to international operators, have rated local authorities and
entities more than one hundredtimes. At this writing eight cities have investmentgrade
credit ratings inColombia, namely:Bogota (AAA); Medellin (AAA); Envigado (AA);
Pereira (A+); Floriblanda (A); Cucuta (A); Dosquebrados (A-); and Pasto (A-).Local
borrowers recognize the importance o f credit ratings and are aware that improvement in
their ratings can ease their access to credit and lower the cost of it to them.

4.10     Although smaller that at its peak in 1998-99, the localcredit market inColombia
today i s o fhigher quality, thanks to the projects. Although the IEGmission detected
some skepticism still inGOC toward local credit, where a few GOC officials believe that
many local authorities and entities present ahighcredit risk, principally becauseo f their
poor financial management. While that remains true inseveral instances, the market can,
at least, readily identifythem and exclude the non-creditworthy from accessing loans.
Perhaps more important still i s that, after the IMF once considered the rapid 1991-1997
decentralization as beingpartlyresponsible for the 1998-99 fiscal crisis, MOF can
conclude today that "excess" local authority debt no longer poses a threat to the stability
of the Colombian economy, nor to the processo f decentralization itself. Of course, how
to bringsmaller local authorities and entities into the market still remains a key
challenge.

CAPACITYBUILDING

4.11 Bothprojects made significant achievements at boththe local andnational levels.
The First Project did make some inroads into improving the financial performance and
management capabilities o f some local authorities and entities as intended, although the
impact was less far reaching geographically thanhoped for. Its national levelresults were
mixedtoo, The Second Project enhancedFINDETER's capacity to finance local infra-
structure, as intended, but to a degree underminedbythe success o f FINDETERitself-
the agency hadto take on board a host o f competing GOC matching grants programs.

4.12     Among project cities that improvedtheir financialperformance thanks to the
project interventions was Pereira, a borrower under bothprojects andrecipient o f
technical assistanceandtraining-in       the fields o fbudgeting,revenue generation and
cadastre-through      the First Project. By 1997, the city successfully issued 5-8 year bonds
that were readily subscribed. Today, the city retains a near-investment grade BB+ credit
rating. The IEGlearned of another good projectresult inthe city of Baranquilla, a city
that hadbeen swamped by short-term debts inthe mid 199Os, but was able to pay them
all offby 2001, while an active participant inthe SecondProject. Other project cities

                                                  10


 visited by the IEGmission, on the other hand, had a weaker performance. Thus
 Manizales reported only lackadaisical collections of local taxes, while delinquency levels
 inCartagenacontinued to increase, havingreachedanaccumulated US$318 million
 equivalent on property taxes alone. While it i s difficult to know which cases are
representative of Colombia's local authorities, a recent Bank report paints a pessimistic
 scenario. Itreports that more than 90 percent o f Colombia's municipalities collected 30
percent or less of their potential revenues from local taxes. Evenso, local taxes have
remained a constant share o f (rising) local transfers over the 1990-2002 period (World
Bank 2005, p.97). But according to a recent report on Colombia, local authorities as a
whole generateda current surplus o fUS$l.1billionequivalent inthe first three quarters
o f 2005, after reporting (declining) deficits until2003 (CONFIS 2005).

4.13     Still, there i s still a long way to go to enhancedecentralized development in
Colombia, and muchadditional effort i s needed, all o fwhich these two projects alone
could not be expected to do. This may explain why, inthe borrower ICR o f the Second
Project (p.39), FINDETERpaints a negative scenario o f local authority problems that lie
ahead, mentioning: (i) have a growing fiscal deficit and are unable to finance
                            most
current expenditures from their own revenues; (ii)      growing debt; (iii) o fpersonnel;
                                                                          excess
and (iv) unpayable pension obligations. Progress inthe first two areas at least has been
important. The IEGmissionheard the argument of several interlocutors that a mayor's
mandate needs to be extended beyond its present three years, for local administrations to
be able to see through longer-term reforms andimprovements that will tackle these
problems.

4.14    The growth of local authorities' own revenues, expanding at a similar rate to the
rapidly growing transfers themselves, points to a positiveoverall result from the First
Project's efforts to improve the municipal resource basethrough cadastre definitions and
updates. Across cities, performance was quite varied, with some prosperingwhile others
doing little to translate cadastreupdates into actual property tax collection. The
implementationo fthis component through Colombia's Geographical Institute (Instituto
Geogrufico Agustin Codazzi - IGAC) was slow-the           main cause o fthe three year delay in
completingthe FirstProject-and          IGAC did not adopt the commercial spirit to its work
as the project hoped, even though it exceededthe project's target o fregistering or
renewing4.5 milliontitles by 57 percent, by covering seven millionproperties. A stand-
alone IADBproject didhelp IGAC, but only one third of its US38.5 million loanhas
been disbursed. Still, the achievement of the national target o f 100percent coverage by
2011has beenbrought forward to 2006. But, other work by the Bankpoints to a
different, less successfulresult. A recent Bank report recommended greater efforts to
update cadastres inColombia, givenwhat it regarded as inadequate information on
property values inthe country-especially not updated frequently enough, say every
year-obviously not arecommendation that would have been made had even better
results beenobtained (World Bank2005 p. 27).

4.15    FINDETER's own capacity to finance local services andto oversee decentralized
development inColombiawas considerably enhanced bybothprojects. As noted earlier
inthisreport, FINDETER's loanportfolio stood at US643.9 millionequivalent, more
than twenty times greater than in 1990, its first year o f operations. Project expectations
hadbeenfor even faster growth, however. The S A R o f the First Project forecast total

                                              11


 FINDETERassets of C01$503billionby 1995 (in 1990prices), whereas the actual
 amount was only Col$l15 billion (in 1990prices). The PAD o f the Second Project,
 issuedbefore the 1998-99 crisis, expectedFINDETER'Sassets to grow inreal terms by
20 percent per annum over five years. Actual growth was instead only 2.6 percent per
 annum. Ironically from today's perspective, inwhich FINDETERaccounts for nearly
half the local credit market, the designers of the FirstProjectwanted to ensure that
FINDETERmaintained (its just 11percent) market share inwhat they expected
 (reasonably at that time) to be a very rapidly growing market. FINDETER's slower than
 expected growth was primarily the result o fthe contraction o f the broader market.

4.16     An important consequenceofthis was to make FINDETER'sresource
mobilization, considered a critical matter at the time o fboth project appraisals, less
crucial. Fearing that FINDETERmightbecome over-leveraged, the designers o f the First
Project heldFINDETER to a maximum debt:equity ratio o f 10:1. Inreality,
FINDETER'sdebt:equity ratio was less than 1:1in 1995, and only recentlyrose to 2:1in
2004, following additional borrowing from IADB. Among the two reasons for the
limited growth o fFINDETERdebt are the generous equity holdingsby GOC-92
percent o f the total and strong repayment flows from earlier FINDETERlending (as a
revolving fund). FINDETER reported 100percent repayment bybanks and the banks 100
percent repayment by local borrowers, thanks to repayments beingdirectly debited from
GOC transfers to them. Evenso, FINDETER didissue Co1$40billionbonds in 1994
when liquiditywas tight inColombia, andonly 22 percent was subscribed. Not
surprisingly, no fixther bonds were offered, even though the appraisal ofthe Second
Project still reckoned such bond issues would provide important opportunities to raise
capital. While FINDETER could easily be more highly leveraged, there i s little need for
this at the presenttime oflimiteddemand inthe local credit market.

4.17     Much hasbeenmade inthe past about the highforeign exchange risk that
FINDETERfaces from its Bank andIADBdebt, butthe IEGmissionwas able to confirm
that such exposures currentlyrepresent no more than 12.7 percent o f all liabilities. Even
these are hedgedthrough forward non-deliverymechanisms and overseas account
holdings. Little wonder, then, that FINDETERenjoys the highest AAA credit rating in
the Colombianmarkets.

4.18    FINDETERhasprovedresilient andreturnedto a modest profit in2004 o fjust 17
percent o f operating income (against a margino f 89 percent in 1990). This was after
incurring losses following the 1998-99 crisis, when many financial intermediaries fared
muchworse-three       medium-sized credit institutions taken over by the authorities and ten
more evenhad to close. FINDETER's early profitability came from significant subsidies
inreceivingrepayments on erstwhile FFDUloans to local authorities, without havingto
service FFDU's own foreign loans. Another measure o f FINDETER's financial capacity,
total asset turnover, operating income dividedby assets, shows a decline from 17percent
in1990to 11percent in2004 (having peakedto 29 percent in1995).

4.19    The IEGmissionvisitedcommercial banks inBogotathat hadmade loans to local
authorities and entities, bothwith FINDETERrediscounting and without it, For them,
FINDETER'sparticipationbrought several advantages, notably: (i)       additionalresources
(for longer term lendingparticularly); (ii)the technical evaluation and approval o fthe

                                                12


proposed sub-projects; (iii)   greater familiarity with the local authority client; and (iv)
triangulating credit rating agencies assessments.They appreciatedthe rapid loan
processing made possible by FINDETER's pre-approved "automatic discounting", a
great improvement over earlier cumbersome and protracted processing. The only
downside for the banks, but an important one, was that FINDETER's resdiscounting
raised the cost o f lending, makingit more difficult to place loans and eating into their
profits. Naturally, and as it should be, commercialbanks are lookingto makemore and
more loans to local borrowers without the intermediation o f FINDETER.

4.20    Insomerespects,FINDETERbecameavictimofitsownsuccess.Becominga
very solid andreliable GOC financial intermediary andagent for decentralization, the
government encumbered FINDETER with more andmore responsibilities to administer
several other GOC programs. These includedmatching grant programs for local
authorities, such as the large Resources for Social and RegionalInvestment Program
(RISR -Recursospara Investirnientos Sociales y Regionales) that invested US$lOl
million equivalent in2004 o fmatching grants for sub-projects-including         health, basic
sanitation, water supply and roads-also      eligible for loans under the two projects
reviewedhere. By investinginsmaller municipalities only, RISRmay have avoided
duplicating loan discountingprograms, but at the same time it may have delayed entry o f
smaller cities into the domain o f financial responsibility. FINDETERhas other similar
responsibilities for other smaller programs and GOC trust funds covering municipal
development, basic sanitation, royalties, and fiscal adjustment. Possible conflicts between
these programs and decentralization reform and their distracting FINDETER from that
effort were noted by the Bank and IADB as early as 1995 and continue to be o f concern,

4.21    As the FirstProject intended, nationallevel capabilities to oversee
decentralization and support local authorities and entities inColombia were strengthened
(by bothprojects). Through the work o f FINDETER, the projects helpedovercome
distrust o flocal institutions traditionally heldby GOC authorities and also by commercial
banks.Evenifit didnot expand as muchas hoped, the local credit market inColombia
becamewell understood at the national level thanks to the projects. Some unfriendliness
towards decentralization, typically felt by those central agencies that relinquishpower,
resources and influence, may still exist. But the better regulated post 1998-99 market is
now more widely recognizedinBogota as a means of overcomingthe social costs of
neglect and eventually bringingpeace to all parts o f the country.


5. Conclusions and Lessons

RATINGS       `

5.1    Municipal DevelopmentProject (Ln 33364'0): Project objectives were and
remaintoday highly relevant to Colombia's ongoing decentralization process and
reform, correctly seen as a cornerstone to the country's future peace anddevelopment.
The efficacy inachieving the majority o f these objectives was substantial, especially
with the results for low-income beneficiaries inthe participant cities andthe stronger
financial performance, particularly o f the larger ones. Efficiency, too, was substantial,
giventhe large scope o fthe impact for arelatively small resource outlay, although

                                                13


efficiency might have beendemonstrably evenhigher, had the proper economic analysis
been carried out o f all sub-project investments. With these results, the overall outcome o f
the project i s rated satisfactory.Sustainability is rated likely, since the decentralization
process is likely to remainirreversible so long as Colombia does not slip deeper into civil
war. Institutional developmentimpact is rated high, giventhe significant change the
project helpedbringto decentralization, enabling localresources to be usedmore
efficiently. Bankperformance i s rated satisfactory, for the readiness o fthe (design and
supervision) assistanceoffered to Colombia at a critical time o f its pursuit o f
decentralization inan uncertain security environment. Borrowerperformance, too, i s
rated satisfactory, particulxly for GOC's successfkl focus and effort on consolidatingits
relationship with local authorities, entities and private operators and banks through
FINDETER.

5.2      Urban I nfrastructure Services Development Project (Ln4345-CO): Project
objectives were andremainsubstantially relevant to Colombia's ongoingpriorities for
decentralization, but they would have beeneven more so, had they still focused upon the
continuingpriority o f improvingthe quality o f local services for low-income urban
groups. The efficacy and the efficiency inachievingthese objectives was on balance
substantial; eventhough unable to sustain the expansion o fthe local credit market
against the exogenous forces containing it, the project did succeed inpreventingwhat
would have beenan even sharper fall without it. Thus, the overall outcome o f the project
i s rated satisfactory. The achievements o f fiscal stability inparticular should help ensure
that the sustainability ofthe project benefits will be likely.Institutional development
impact, is rated substantial, since the project helpedensure the continued efficient use o f
localresources throughtimes o f crisis inColombia, even ifit didnot bringinnovative
changes to the way o f doing business.Finally, bothBankperformance and Borrower
performance are rated satisfactory since bothparties worked effectively to steer the
project to a successfkl conclusion indifficult country circumstances that were entirely
unforeseen at the outset.

LESSONS

0    Policy andprograms need to continue to focus upon urban service improvements that
     local authorities and entities must want to make andto finance, if strengthened local
     credit marketsare to beput effectively to work. Local authorities and entities have to
     want to improve the coverage and quality o f their urbanservice provisionifthere i s to
     be a demand for local credit to finance improvementsthat are needed. Without such a
     demandfor improvements, evenconsolidated andpotentially well-hctioning credit
     marketswill languishand eventually contract.

0    The market for local sub-sovereign credit may be shallower than commonly believed.
     Demand-sidefactors, such as any lack o fdemand for service improvements (`just
     mentioned), a small numbero f creditworthy borrowers, andthe need for fiscal
     responsibility, can all conspire to constrain the growth o f the local credit market.
     Supply-side factors, notablythe willingness o fbanks to lendto localborrowers, do
     not seem to offer such a constraint.

                                            14


0 To be profitable and still affordable to the poor, local urban services must operate
  very efficiently inorder to keeps costs down. Otherwise, profitability can be
  maintained only ifinefficiencies-such     as through non-revenue water-are    charged
  through higher prices to customers, forcing low-income groups among them to devote
  an undue share o f household income to pay them.

                                           15


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

MUNICIPALDEVELOPMENT           PROJECT (LOAN3336420)

Key Project Data (amounts in million)
                                          Appraisal             Actual or         Actual as %
                                           estimate          current estimate         of
                                                                                   appraisal
                                                                                   estimate
Total projec' costs                         188.2                 208.3              111%
Loan arnoubit                                60.0                  60.0              100%
Cofinancing                                  44.0                  na
Cancellation                                                       1.8



Project Dates
                                               Original                     Actual
Departure of Appraisal Mission               06/01/1989                   06101/ I989
Board approval                               05/30/1991                   05/30/1991
Signing                                      11/08/1991                   11/08/1991
Effectiveness                                10/15/1991                   0511511992
Closing date                                 12/31/1997                   12/31/2000


Staff InDuts(staff weeks)
                                                      ActuaMLatestEstimate
                                           N' Staff weeks             (thousands of US$)
IdentificationlPreparation                     108.4                         195.3
AppraisaVNegotiation                            84.7                         171.9
Supervision                                    114.3                         267.1
ICR                                             5.0                          17.0
Total                                          312.4                         651.3

                                                 16


MissionData
                      Date     Count         Specializations              Performance rating
                                              represented         Impl. Progress    Dev. Obj.

Identification/       08/85     N/A
Preparation
                      10185     NIA
                      05/86      1   Economist                   I                 I            I
                      06/87      2   Economist:UrbanSoecialist 1                   I            I
                      12/87     2    Economist;Institutional
                   1i                DeveloDment SDecialist      I
                      03/88          Economist; Urban Specialist;

                      09/88  ll  43  Sanitary Engineer;
                                     InstitutionalDevelopment
                                     SDecialist
Appraisal/            09/89     3    Sanitary Engineer; Urban
Negotiation                          Specialist; Economist
                      12/89     5    Sanitary Engineer; Urban
                                     Specialist; Institutional
                                     DevelopmentSpecialist
                      07/90     1   Sanitary Engineer
                      10/90     2    Urban Specialist, Economist
Supervision           03/92     2   MunicipalEngineer;Urban               H S              s
                                    Specialist
                      10192     3    InstitutionalDevelopment             s                S
3                                   Specialist; Urban Specialist;
                                    Water Engineer
                      06193         InstitutionalDevelopment,             s                s
                                    Urban Specialist; Water
                                    Engineer
                                    Economist,Sanitary                    S                s
                                    Enaineer. Water Enaineer
                      09/94         Economist, Sanitary                   s                s
                                    Engineer, Water Engineer
                                    Economist, Urban Specialist           S                s
                      11/97         Economist; Urban Specialist;          S                s
                                    MunicipalEngineer
                      10/99     3   Municipal Engineer;PE;                S                s
                                    Sanitary Enaineer
                      06/00         Economist; PE; Sanitary               s                s
                                    Engineer
                      08/00         Economist: Sanitary                   S                s
                                    Engineer

                                        17




URBAN       INFRASTRUCTURE (LOAN
                             SERVICES DEVELOPMENT    PROJECT             4345-CO)

Key Project Data (amounts in million)
                                        ARDraiSal            Actual or        Actual as %
                                        estimate          current estimate        of
                                                                               appraisal
                                                                               estimate
Total project costs                      125.0                 97.85             78%
Loan amount                              75.0                  48.85             65%
Cofinancing
Cancellation                                                   26.15




Project Dates
                                            Original                     Actual
Appraisal Mission                         05/21/1998                   05/21/1998
Board approval                            0611Ill998                   0611Ill998
Signing                                   07/31/1998                   07/31/1998
Effectiveness                             11/03/1998                   12/22/1998
Closing date                              06/30/2003                   06/30/2004


Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                                   ActuaWLatestEstimate
                                        N" Staff weeks             (thousands of US$J
Identification/Preparation                   69.5                         192.5
AppraisallNegotiation                        25.9                         81.4
Supervision                                  61.4                        294.3
ICR                                          8.3                          101.5
Total                                       103.7                        669.7

                                                                      ,
                                                      18


MissionData
                    Date    ICount I     Specializations represented           Performance rating
                                                                      Implern. Porgress     Dev.
                                                                      Obiective
Identification/  05/12/1997
Preparation
Appraisal1       05/21/1998
Neaotiation
                                       Team Leader (1); Engineer(1);
                                        Operations Assist. (1)
                 06/17/1999            Task Manager (1); Projects
                                        Officer(1);
                 03/30/2001            Consultant(1); Senior Economist


               II04/10/2003 I        1I Task
                                        ProjectsOfficer (1j
                                        (I): UrbanSpecialist(I);
                                            Lead


                            I 2    I Analvst (1)
                                             Manager(1); Financial

                 10/03/2003             Task Manager(1); Financial             s

                 03/13/2004            Task Manager(1); FormerTask
                                        Manager (1); Consultant(I)                      I

               I 08/17/2004            Task Manager(1); Financial              s                s
                                       Specialist(1); Consultant(1)
                 11/15/2004 1 3    1   Task Manager(1); Financial
                                       SDecialist(1): Consultant(1)

                                               19


  Annex B.BorrowerComments




                                                                 300-03-00108




i)ucxir
MIGUEL LOPEZ-BAKOVTC
Kcpresentante Residente
Rmco Munciial                                                                    I

.4SLhTQ:         Colombia: Programade DesarrolloMunicipal -PDT (PrtktamoNo. 3336-
                 CO); Proyecto de Infi-aestructuraUrbana(P&stamo No. 4345-CO);
                 Evaluacihnsobre 10s resultadosde 10s proyectos

Aprcciado Doctor Lopez:

Hmcs recibido su oficio fechado el paado I O de mayo de 2006 en el cud nos adjuntan
una msicinpretirninar del lnforme de Evaluacionde 10s proyectosdel asunto.

.Ai r.espscto nos permitinios adjuntar nuestros comentarios fiente a dicho informe, como
~ R C X Oai presente docrmcnto,y agradecemos que la versi6n final del m h o sea remitidaa
FTVDETER.

                            momeeto,nos suscribimos de usted.

                                             20




        Proyectospor analizar:

        PROYECTODEDIMARROLLOMUNICIPAL
        Cmtia dctpnhmo: US60Millones,el 30 deMayode 1991.
'I..

        PROYECTODEDESARROLLODESERMCIOSDE-UCTURA
        Cuanthdelpdstamo: US$75Mllones, el 1Ide Jtmiode 1998.




        r\i obsmar 10s resultadosm j a d a s por la Evaluacion Ex post realizadapor el banco
        htundial. respecto a 10s pmyectos de desa~~ollomunicipal         y de Servicios de
        infnestructura, ejjecutadoscon10srecursosprovenientesde m lineade crtdito; es para
        oowotros importante, presentar algunos comentarios que p e d h seotar posicihn,
        respecto a las alcames y contribuci6nrealizadasconestos pycctos.


        Inversih Socioeconomics

        Lacapacidad expansivagtnerada conlaimplementaciondepoliticasde inversion,por
        parte de las entidades gubernamentales e intergubernamentales, ha permitido a 10s
        organimos encafgados de su ejecucibn, f o c k acciones de optbhcibn productiva
        en sectores y en &as      especialmcnte senslbles. Esta optimizacihi sectorial, genera
        altemativas de crecimicnto, aI promover la cnaci6n de emplea y mejorar 10s
        indicadoresde distribuciirndel ingreso y calkladde vida de lapoblaci6n.


         AI obscrvar el cam de 10s pmyectos de desarrollo municipal y de servicios de
         infraestructura desarrollados por Findem, a bav6s de la linea de d i t 0 del Banco
         Muadial; esta situaciira no se haceparticularmentedistinta.


         Los nsdtados alcanzados en rtrminos institucionales y de g&6n         estuvieron por
        encimade lasexpectahis presentadas a1midode laejacuoi6nde 10s proyectos.Tal es
         asi, que esta evatuacion arzoja rcsuItados inesperados -en f    ~   ~ positivos- que
                                                                                o    s
         conhibuyen a potencialiarel alcancede estos recwsos.

                                               21




      En el mismo sentido, y p
      p a r t i c u h a n t e d i ~los
      Unadidmicacconhh
      cuatquier aperador  .


      Fo~tatecimientodelMercadode C-0
f.    De las obsavaciwes encontcadas con esta evaluciirn, se mltala poca disposici6n
      para fortalecet el mercadode ddito local.


      Hastsl el dia de hoy. se han venido presentadomejorassustanciales, tanto Ia calidaddel
      cddito o h i d o por 10s distintos agentes financieras, como en su disposici6n a 10s
      operndores locales.       Est0 obedece, a1 establecimiento de ma mayor gestion
      administrativo y de control en fa ejecuci6nde recufsospor parte del gobiemo central;
      sumado a las mejorescondicioms macroeconbmicpscapresentesen la actualidad.


      L a contribucioa rcalizada por Findeter para el Iogro de este objetivo, ha radicado en el
      aumentude b s serdciosde redememto y de admmstna-6rr dexecwsos; lo que amplia
                                                          . .
      nuesm espectro a aqueIlos agentes de naturalemprivada. Con eRo, hemos logrado
      aumcntar las opcianes de inversidn en distintos niveles, logrando consolidar nuestra
      gestion institucioual COPperspectivctde fituro.



      En el mismo sentido, hernos modificado nuestras nxpotuabilidades frente a las
      contraidasen eseperiodo; separandolaadmidstracibnde 10s programasde donaciones
      (ICcontrapamda del Gobierno, dc nuestra agenda.              Esto, ha redundado en la
      consolidaci6n de 10s indicadores socioCcon6micosa,perfilando a nucstraentidad como
      una de las mis importantesen materia de generaci6n de beneficios a nivelproductivo.


       Dc est3 forma, y dado que losmsuttadospreseatados futmn satisfactonos, segh esta
       valordcibn. Findeter continua generando instrumentos t&cnicos y fmancieros que
       pcrmiten facilitar la realizaciitllde proyectospara el mejoramientode la calidad de vida
       de In poblacibn; contdbuyendoa1 mismotiempo al logro de 10s prop6s3os y rnandatos
       institucionalesemitidos8 escah gubmamental.


       Finalmente, es para nosotrosde suma importancia observarque 10s objetivosplanteados
       en estos proyectos, respecto a la generaci6n & valor agcegado, haa sido llevados a
       c a b mediante laprestaci6n de nuestros servicios.

      ..- .. ...
         I-




22

                                           23


 [English translation o f Borrower Comments]



FINDETER

Bogota, June 12,2006                                               30-03-00108

Dr.Miguel Lopez-Bakovic

Resident Representative

World Bank



SUBJECT: ColBmbia: Municipal Development Proiect (Ln.3336-CO); Urban
            Infrastructure Services Development Proiect (Ln.4345-CO)



Dear Dr.Lopez:

W e have received your letter dated M a y 10,2006 to which you attached a draft
evaluation report (PPAR) of the above projects.

Withregardto this, please allow us to add our annexed comments uponthis report.
W e would appreciate the final version being sent to FINDETER.

We remain sincerely yours,



[Signed]

Mateo de 10s Rios Velez

Financial and Operational Vice-president

                                             24


                      MUNICIPALDEVELOPMENT PROJECT

     URBANINFRASTRUCTURESERVICES DEVELOPMENTPROJECT.

  COMMENTSONTHE RESULTSOFTHE PROJECTSIMPLEMENTEDBY
                    THE WORLD BANKTHROUGHFINDETER

 Projects evaluated:

 MUNICIPALDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

 Loan amount: U S 6 0 million, May 30, 1991

 URBANINFRASTRUCTURESERVICESDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

 Loan amount: US75 million, June 11, 1998



 ANALYSIS AND COMMENTS

 Innotingthe results ofthe ex-post evaluation undertakingbythe World Bank o fthese
 two projects funded by Bank loans, it is important for us to present some comments to
 establish our position regarding their achievements and contributions.



 Socio-economic Investments

 Capacity buildingthrough implementing investmentpolicies o f government and
inter-governmental entities has permittedexecuting agenciesto focus upon actions to
optimize productivity insectors especially insensitive areas. This sectoral
 optimization generates alternatives o f growth, inpromotingemployment creationand
improvements inindicators o f income distribution andthe quality o f life o f the
population.

'Inlookingatthese two projects developedbyFINDETERwithBankfunding, their
situation i s not especially different.

The results achieved ininstitutionalandmanagement terms were greater than
expected at the beginningo fproject implementation.Thus, the evaluation found
unexpected results-positive      ones-that contributed to making the best use o f the
resources available.

Inthe sameway, inspite ofbeingprojects undertaken at different timeswith
particularly distinct objectives, the general results were satisfactory. This was so in
spite o f a complex economic dynamic and some market conditions that were difficult
for any operator.

                                              25


Strengthening the Credit Market

Fromthe observations found inthis evaluation, the limited disposition to strengthen
the local credit market i s highlighted.

Up to the present time, there have beensubstantial improvements inthe quality o f
credit offeredby different financial intermediaries and inthe disposition o f local
operators. This result follows the establishment o f greater administrative and financial
control inthe use of resourcesby central government, as well the better macro-
economic conditions at present.

FINDETER'Scontribution to achieving this objective is rooted inthe increase o f the
services o f rediscounting andresource management, broadening the scope to include
private sector intermediaries. With this we have managed to increase the options for
investment at various levels, thereby consolidating andinstitutional management with
aperspective for the future.

Inthe sameway, we havemodifiedour responsibilities, comparedwiththose given
us at the time of the projects, throughseparating the management o f Government
grant-funded programs on our agenda. This had a bearingupon the improving socio-
economic indicators, shaping our entity (FINDETER) as one o f the most important
with respectto generatingbenefits at the level ofproduction.

Inthisway, andgiventhat the demonstrated results were satisfactory, accordingto
the Bank's evaluation, FINDETERcontinues to develop technical andfinancial
instrumentsthat facilitate the implementationo fprojects to improve the quality o f life
o fthe population, contributing at the same time to the achievement o f the
government's institutionalpurpose and mandate.

Finally, it i s of great importance for us to observe that the objectives formulated for
these two projects, with respect to their value added, have beenfulfilled through the
provisionof our services.

We hope with this to continue contributingto the organization andmissiongoals
generatedby the World Bank, giventhat these goals are directly relatedto the social
objective we have followed for more than 15 years.


                                         27


Bibliography

CONFIS - Consejo Superior de Politica Social (2005) Sector Ptiblico Consolidado
Tercer Trimestre de 2005 Bogota, Documento Asesores 14/2005.

Dillinger, William and Steven B. Webb (1999) Decentralization and Fiscal
Management in Colombia Washington DC, World BankPolicy Research Working
Paper # 2122.

Fedesarrollo (2004) Subsidics a1 Consumo de 10s Sewicios Ptiblicos en Colombia -
iHacia donde Movernos? Bogota, Informe de Base del REDI.

Freire, Mila and JohnPetersoneds. (2004) Subnational Capital Markets in
Developing Countries:from Theory to Practice New York, OxfordUniversityPress.

Giugale, Marcel M.,Olivier Lafourcade and Connie Luff(2003) Colombia :the
Economic Foundation of Peace Washington DC, The World Bank.

Hommes, Rudolf. (1995) Conflicts and Dilemmas in Decentralization Washington
DC, Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank Annual Conference on Development
Economics, May 1-2, 1995.

InternationalMonetary Fund(1999) Colombia: StaffReport for the 1999Article I V
Consultation Washington DC, International Monetary Fund.

Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico (2004) Nivel y Tendencia de la Deuda
Ptiblica Territorial 1995-2004 Bogota.

Ministerio de Hacienda y Credit0 Publico (2005) Informe sobre la ViabilidadFiscal
de 10sDepartamentos: Vigencia 2004 Bogota.

Solimano, Andres (2000) Colombia: Essays on Conflict, Peace and Development
Washington DC, The World Bank

Ter-Minassian, Teresa ed. (1997) Fiscal Federalism in Theory and Practice
Washington DC, International MonetaryFund

Wiesner, Eduardo (1995) La Descentralizacidn, el Gasto Socialy la Gobernabilidad
en Colombia Bogoth, Departamento Nacional de Planeacih.

Wiesner, Eduardo (2003) Fiscal Federalism in Latin America: from Entitlements to
Markets Washington DC, Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank.

World Bank (1991) Colombia: Public Sector Review Washington DC, Latin
American and Caribbean Office of the World Bank, Report #7891-C0.

World Bank (2005) Colombia: Public Expenditure Review Washington DC, Latin
American and Caribbean Office of the World Bank, Report #25163-C0.




