Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,-AJ    336C
Report No. 9232-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 9, 1991
Department III
Infrastructure and Energy Operation Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        -        Peso Colombiano (Col$)
US$1.00        =        Coi$569
ColS1.00        =        US$0.00176
As of January 1, 1991
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AMD ACRONYMS USED
BCH             Banco Central Hipotecario
(Central Mortgage Bank)
CORPES          Consejos RegioAales de Planificaci6n
(Regional Planning Councils)
DNP             Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
(National Planning Department)
DTF             Deposito a Termino Fijo
(Average Interest Rate on Short-Term Deposits)
ESAP            Escuela Superior de Administracion Publica
(National Public Administration School)
FINDETER        Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial S.A.
(National Municipal Development Financial Intermediary)
FFDU            Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano
(former National Urban Development Fund)
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IGAC            Instituto Geografico Agustin Codazzi
(National Geographic Institute and Cadaster Office)
ODP             oficina Departamental de Planeacion
(Departmental Planning Office)
SENA            Servicio National de Aprendizaje
(National Apprenticeship Service)
MDP             Programa de Desarrollo Territorial
(Municipal Development Program)
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT 2ROJECT
Table of Contents
Pase No.
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
II.    THE  SECTOR  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
A.  Status of Municipal Servies   .9..... . . . . . . .   3
B.  Sector Organization  ...............                        3
C.  Municipal Finance                     . . . . . . .         5
D.  Summary of Issues             . . . . . .  . . . . . . .   6
E.  Prospects for Reform e.............. ..   ..    7
F. Bank Role and Strategy in the Sector . . . . . . . . . . .   8
III. FINDETER - THE APEX AGENCY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
A.    Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   9
B. Organization and Management of FINDETER  . . . . . . . . .   9
C.  Financial Structure and Policy . . . . . . . ... . . . . .  10
D.  First-tier Intermediation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  11
E.  Financial Analysis of FINDETER . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
IV.  THE PROJECT   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  . . ... . . .  12
a. Origin . . . o. .. ...o. . ....          o..  .  .  .  .  .   12
B.  Objectives . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . . . .  . . . .  12
C.  Ratinale for Bank Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
D.  Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
E.  Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  15
F. Operation of the Line of Credit  ............   16
G.  Implementation of Training. *              .. . ....   19
H. Monitoring, Reports, Audits and Annual Reviews . . . . . .  20
I. Procurement   . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
J. Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
K.    Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  22
L. Environmental Aspects  ..   . . . . . ..*                   23
M. Risks and Safeguardes a ..............                      23
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ......... .......   24
This report is based on the findings of a post-appraisal mission which visited
Colombia in October 1990. Mission members included Messrs. Vincent Gouarne (Urban
Planner), Eleoterio Codato (Municipal Engineer) and Julio Linares (Senior Financial
Analyst). Earlier inputs are credited to Messrs/Mme Walter Stottmann (Principal
Sanitary Engineer), Katrina Sharkey (Training Specialist), Theo Bogaerts (Cadaster
Specialist), Hernando Garzon (Intergovernmental Finance Specialist) and Stuart
Whitehead (Senior Financial Analyst). Fear !:eview was provided by Messrs. Roberto
Chavez (Senior Urban Planner) and Thomas Zearley (Senior Financial Analyst). Me.
Silvia Delgado assisted in producing the report. Mr. Graham Smith is the managing
Division Chief and Mr. Ping-Cheung Loh the Department Director for the operation.
Thisdocument has arestricted distribution and may be used by rec; tents only in the performance|
of their official duties. ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MMLE OF CONTENT8 (cont'd)
TEXT $ABma                                                      PMe No.
IV.1 - Summary of Costs ..............a.......... is
IV.2 - Financing Plan . . . . . . . . .  .   .  .  . . . . . .  . . . .   16
IV.3 - Procurement Arrangements .        ...............    21
1.   Municipal Finance  . . . . . . . .                           26
2.   Sector Lending by FFDU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
3.   organization Chart of FINDETER   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
4.   Institutional Development of FINDETER  . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
5.   FINDETER's Onlending Terms and Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . 37
6.   Financial Analysis . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
7.   Training and Institutional Support   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
8.   Cadasters    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  &  .  ..  .  .  . 49
9.   Eligibility Criteria for On-lending   .    .  .  .  .   . . . 55
10.   Documentation for Bank Review of Subprojects . . . . . . . . . 62
11.   Conditions to be Included in Subproject Agreements   . . . . . 63
12.   Project investment Schedule  .e...........     .              .65
13.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds  . . . * # *.   .             . .66
14.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
15.   Monitoring Indicators    ...............   . . . 68
16.   Selected Documents on Project File   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
MAP   No. IBRD 18370R



COLOMBIA
MEUR:CAL  DEVELOPMENTL2ZQ
I. LOAN AND PROJNCT SUMnARY
Borro,wer:    Republic of Colombia
Loan Amounts US$60 Million
Termvt        Repayment in 17 years, including five years of grace, with interest
at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Executina     Financiera de Desarrol'lo Territorial (FINDETER)
Aoengiess     National Planning Department (DNP)
National Geographic Institute (IGAC)
CQ-financina: Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) US$44 million
Proiect       In support of its decentralization policy the Government has launched
pscrip.tiont the  v-'icipal Development Program (NDP), which aims at improving
munic.pal services and strengthening municipal institutions. The
MDP includes (a) the implementation through the Financiera de
Desarrollo Territorial (FINDETER) of a new sector lending policy
based on more stringent criteria of financial and institutional
project feasibility; (b) actions to strengthen regional agencies who
help local governments formulate their investment and institutional
development programs; (e) training of sector personnel; and (d)
actions to enhance municipal revenues including the property tax.
The Project would support the MDP through the following components:
(A) a line of credit administered by FINDETER to finance about 300
subprojects to improve urban infrastructure and strengthen
beneficiary local governments; (B) a program to strengthen FINDUTER
and devetlop it. lending pipeline; (C) the development of sector
training agencies and the delivery of a training program to sector
staff; and (D) a program to update cadasters nationwidw.
Benefits:    The project would help provide improved municipal services to over
5 million people, most of them poor.   It would have a positive
economic effect on a large number of cities and on their hinterlands
by addressing infrastructure bottlenecks, and would bring benefits
by promoting the execution of more cost-effective investments,
better maintenance of capital assets, and a higher self-reliance by
local governments on local resource mobilization.   A positive
environmental impact wou'd be achieved through the implementation of
sound solid waste disposal in participating municipalities.
Risks:        Reforming the local government sector will require a sustained
effort in the years ahead. Risks include the possibility of (i)
insufficient capacities and cumbersome procurement processes at the
local level resulting in slow implementation or low quality of
subprojectsl (ii) political pressures undermining the conditionality
of FINDETER lending; (iii) the high turnover of municipal mayors and
staff disrupting the continuity of investment planning and
institutional development at the local level; and (iv) a limited
ability of sector institutions to discharge their responsibilities



- 2 -
in the implementation of the Government's 'Aunicipal Development
Program. The project Includes measures to address these risks.
While the project would help build up subproject preparation
capabilities, the scale of the proposed line of credit does not
entail a substantial increase in sector investment.   To ensure
adherence to on-lending condLtionality, th.e Bank or IDS in turn
would review the larger subprojects prior to approval by FINDETER,
and all subprojects prior to approving disbursements. An annual
review of project and sector issues would lead to timely plans of
action to remedy identiZied shortcomings. Project agencies would be
strengthened as part of the project and would commit themselves to
achieve monitorable targets.
Summary of Costs                              ----US$ million 1/----
FQrelan  Logal   Total of total
IbMunicipal Projects                  72.0    86i.2   158.2       mI
Infrastructure Investments         68.2    79.8   148.0       79%
Institutional Development           2.5     2.5     5.0        3%
Studies & Designs                   1.3     3.9     5.2        3%
Instit. Dev. FINDETER                  1.6     2.4     4.0      _ 2A
Training                               3.8     6.1    10.0 5A
Cadaster                              11.9     4.1    .0.1L Q     9
Total Project Cost                    89.4    98.8   188.2      I=
1/    Includes taxes estimated at about US$10 million.
2/    Each component is a program of a pre-set amount, which allows for
price inflation based on Bank projections as of November 1990.
Physical contingencies do not apply.
Financina Plan                                            % of
USS millllon    Total
Sub-borrowers             47.5    25.2%
CORPES                     0.7      0.4%
Financial Intermed.       16.6      8.8%
FINDETER                  14.1      7.5%
National Government         5.3     2.8%
IDB                       44.0    23.4%
IBRD                      60.0    31.9%
Total Financing            188.2   100.0a
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY              92       93      94      95      96       97
------------------US$ million…------
Annual              5.6    10.8    14.3    14.1    12.2       3.1
Cumulative          5.6    16.4    30.7    44.7    56.9    60.0



- 3 -
II. THE SEC-TOR
A. Status of Municigal Services
2.1    In little more than a generation, Colombia has become an urban society. Two
out of every three Colombians now live and work in cities and towns. The coverage
of municipal services varies considerably with city size and region.  Smaller
towns, and low-income areas in largo cities, still lack the most basic
infrastructure.   Over 40% of urban streets nationwide are unpaved.   Street
maintenance is neglected, and traffic management in rudimentary even in the largest
cities.  Solid waste collection coverage is lower than 70% in most cities and
inexistent in small towns, and final disposal schemes frequently create
environmental hazards. Marketplaces are insufficient and often poorly designed,
resulting in traffic disruption by street vending and low sanitary standards.  In
many cases, institutional development investments and rehabilitation works to
improve the condition and operation of existing assets are even more urgently
needed than tne creation of new faciLities.
2.2    Municipal investment in 1988 was at US$17 equivalent per inhabitant in large
cities and only US$7.50 in smaller towns, a paltry amount considering the broad
range of services which Colombian local governments are responsible for providing.
Investment needs based on coverage targets are not readily quantifiable given the
diversity of subsectore involved, and are clearly beyond the absorptive capacity
of sector institutions. While the on-going decentralization process has increased
the investment resources available to local governments, their ability to plan,
implement and administer urban services has become the most critical hindrance for
sector development. The aggregate borrowing capacity of local governments in the
next five years for urbA infrastructure Investment other than water is projected
at more than US$ L.2 billion equivalent, but less than half this amount is expected
to materialize into viable investment proposals.
B. Sector Organization
2.3    Logal oversnment. Colombia has three tiers of government: national, state
(departments, and in frontier regions intendencies or commissariats), and
municipal. Bach of the 1,009 mmunicipios" is governed by an elected law-making
council, an executive branch led by an elected mayor, and in larger cities a range
of municipal agencies or enterprises. Municipal government has been the main
beneficiary of a decentralization process started in 1983, which has included a
reform of local. taxation (Law 14 of 1983), a revision of the legal status of local
governments (Law 11 of 1986), the allocation to them of increasing shares of the
national value-added tax (Law 12 of 1986), transfers of responsibilities for the
provision of local services (Decrees 77, 78 and 80 of 1987), and the popular
election of mayors starting in 1988. These measures are designed to strengthen the
democratic process at the local level, foster community participation in local
development, and eliminate the inefficiencies associated with the provision by
central government agencies of services that are local in nature.
2.4    Local governments are now responsible for a number of urban services
including water and electricity distribution, solid waste management, streets,
market places, primary health care and education, and recreational facilities.
They set and collect local taxes, finance and implement investments, and operate
services.   Many local governments are responesvely meeting the challenge of
decentralizatLon and have acquired a new sense of accountability to thelr
constLtuents. However, the instLtutional capabilities of most municipios are too
weak for them to adequately discharge their new responsibilities.



- 4 -
2.5    The shortfalls in the provLilon of municipal services largely orlginate :n
a dearth of administrative and technical skills in local govermnents. There 4. a
virtual absence of the notion of career service, and functional job profiles are
not regularly used. With local elections every other year, political interference
in the management and staffing of local institutions has prevented continuity.
Project preparatior capabilities are frequently absent in the local governments,
and technical assistance resources are lLmited in the regions. Municipal managers
too often place more emphasis on new investment than on proper operation of
existing facilities, or allocate resources to projects of high political visibility
without due care for their developmental priority.
2.6    Denartmental and Reaional Suonort. Departmental governments through their
planning offices (ODPs) are responsible for providing technical support and
guidance to local governments.   With exceptions in a few departments like
Antioquia, Valle and Cundinamarca, most ODPa have lacked the skills and authority
needed to provide effective support to local governments. A number of departments
have established local development finance agencies to provide investment credit
to constituent municipalities. Few have matured into effective intermediaries, and
there is doubt that in a context of financial sector liberalization these entities
may have a role in the future. The departments, andI especially those who receive
mining royalties, are also sources of grant financing for municipal investments.
In a few states like Valle, departmental utility companies develop and operate
public services on behalf of their constituent municipalities.
2.7    CORPES.  Law 76 of 1985 created five Regional Planning Councils (CORPES),
each for a region of Colombia. The CORPUS, affiliated to the National Planning
Department (DNP), are responsible for leading investment planning in their regions
and proposing major investments to DNP for national budget support or external
funding. They handle regional investment funds receiving mining royalties and
betterment charges to finance works of regional interest or to co-finance local
investments of the municipios and departments.
2.8   The Urban Development Fund -FFDUI and  FINDUTUR.  In the absence of a
developed market for long-term credit, local governments have mostly depended on
official lenders to finance infrastructure investments. Until 1990, the leading
source of finance in the sector was FPDU, a rediscount facility of the Central
Mortgage Bank (BCH). FFDU has now been transformed into a self-standing apex
agency, the  Financiera  de  Desarrollo  Territorial  (FINDETER).   FINDETeR's
organization and financial policies are discussed in Chapter III.
2.9    Other SnecialLzed Funds.  A number of specialized agencies handle programs
of grants or credit for municipal investments, including the Rural Development Fund
(DRI), the Energy Finance Corporation (F3N), the National Reconstruction Program
(PNR) and the National Rural Roads Fund (FNCV). Bach program follows lts own
sectoral logic, and there is a need for the Government to review the overall
consistency and targeting of its instruments to promote local development.
Consolidating the programs might disrupt their operations including several on-
going Bank projects. However, improved coordination could be achieved, including
a more systematic use of grant co-financing for the poorest cowmunities unable to
finance their investments from FINDZTER'  market-rate credits. The Government has
agreed at negotLations to carry out a study of thlo matter and to adopt by October
1992 and implement an action plan to improve the conslitency and targeting of its
programs supporting municipal Lnvestments in the sectors financed by the project.
2.10   Tranirgl lgajtltions.  The Public Administration School (9SAP) trains
public administrators at the national, departmental and local levels. After a



- 5 -
reorganization in 1987 in response to decentralization, ESAP has introduced
specific programs to stLangthen munlcipal administrations.  ESAP's ablilty to
respond to municipal needs remains limited, however. Most of its teaching staff
have little experience of local qovernment, and its programs have an overly
legalistic orientation.   The NatLonal Apprenticeship Service (SBNA) provides
vocational training to local government personnel in the areas of sanitatioa,
public works, micro-enterprises and couunity participation.  SENA's programs are
successful, but have been constrained by the lack of flnancial resources and
trainers.  A number of universities and NGOs are also implementing municipal
training programs in the regions.  In a few departments, agreements between
training Lnstitutions and the ODPs have produced worthwhile programs. In general,
however, training in the sector has operated in a disjointed manner and has been
of uneven quality and distribution.
2.11   The National Plannina Department (DNP) is leading the formulation of sector
policies. DNP has taken an active role in supporting the decentralization process.
It has led the formulation of the Government's development program for the sector
(para. 2.21 below) and will lead the implementation of the institutional measures
included in the program.
2.12   National Cadaster. With exceptions in the department of Antioquia and the
cities of Bogota and Cali, municipal cadasters in Colombia are maintained by the
Instituto Gviografico Agustin Codazzi (IGAC), a semi-autonomous agency of the
Ministry of Finance with 21 regional branches.  IGAC has a proud technical
tradition and is respected for the integrity of its property valuation decisions.
By sub-contracting fleld work, it has achieved lower unit costs than private firms
in Antioquia or loeal cadaster offices in Bogota and Cali. However, IGAC is driven
towards scientific prowess more than bottom-line figures, and further efficiency
gains rould be achieved with a closer monitoring of costs per activity. During
1983-1988, IoAC fell behind it. legal coverage targets, mostly due to equipment
bottlenecks and unpredictable funding. Larger budgets in 1989 and 1990 allowed
IGAC to begin reducing its backlog of cadastral registration and updates.
C. Municinal Finance I/
2.13 Colombian local governments have considerable revenue authority. Own source
local revenues include taxes on real estate and business, betterment levles and
service charges. Fiscal performance has been correlated with city size. Own-
source revenues in Bogota and other large cities have increased in real ters in
the past. Small municipalities, by contrast, have failed to keep local revenues
in pace with inflation, and have become more dependant on transfers.
2.14 The 2ronertv tax used to be the largest single source of municipal revenue.
High inflation rates, IGAC's slippage from it. registration targets, and the
failure of many municipal governments to enforce timely payment of the tax, have
caused its proceeds to decline in real terms. The tax funded 27% of aggregate
municipal expenditure in 1973, 17% in 1983, and 12% in 1988. Law 14 of 1983
introduced annual across-the-board revaluations of the property tax base, required
IGAC to update property assessments nationwide on a five-year cycle, and
transferred to mayors the authority to set tax rates wLthin a wide legal band.
Howevor, the annual revaluations have been made at rates lower than inflation. A
large number of newly developed properties are not registered in the tax rolls.
I/  See Report No. 7870-00C  -Colombia - centralizina  e        es and the
Provision of ervicesO", October 1989.



While the tax base teeclined, collection performance remained poor in many
municipelities. Only 60% of the aggregate amounts billed are collected.
2.15   TrAnAfero. Under Law 12 of 1986, local governments are receiving each year
an increased proportion of the proceeds of the national value-added tax (VAT). This
proportion will stabilize at 50% in 1992 with aggregate transfers projected for
that year at US$650 million.   The amounts transferred to individual local
governments are basv! on population, with a "special transfer" element only for
smaller municipalities, and a "fiscal ef.ort" element rewarding the local
governments who achieve a better than average mobilization of own-source revenues.
While no earmarking is enforced, about 50% of the VAT transfer is expected to be
used for investment or debt service.  To receive their annual transfer, local
governmer+9 have to present investment programs to their Department's Planning
Office. However, the transfer is a constitutional right of the municipality, and
the national or departmental governments cannot withhold it for any motive, such
as an investment program not in line with national priorities or an inadequate
management of municipal revenues or expenditures.
2.16   Exuenditure manaqement is poorly executed at the local level.  Annual
budgets are used at best to set indicative targets, and major revisions are
performed at mid-year. Administrative costs absorb over 70% of municipal budgets
in the smaller constituencies, where inter-governmental transfers account for up
to 80% of revenues. Services such as solid waste collection are commonly handled
by administrative units which in the absence of separate accounts fail to keep
track of their costs and revenues. Local comptrollers, appointed by the municipal
councils. do not always have the skills or incentives to adhere to adequate
auditing standards. Each local government sets its own plan of accounts, and many
are considered unauditable.
2.17   Debt Pinancina.  Unlike the largest cities, smaller towns have made little
use of debt to leverage their increarad revenues under Law 12/86. Borrowings in
1988 funded 51% of total investments for municipalities of more than 500,000
inhabitants, but only 7% for those of le-'i than 100,000 inhabitants. Given the
large infrastructure deficits in small municipalitLes, this results in a poor
inter-temporal allocation of resources. Sector borrowing has mostly been in the
form of directed credit from official lenders including the rediscount lines of
FFDU. Past financial policies in the sector have nurtured the expectation that
municipal lending, especially to smaller towns, should be on soft terms. This has
constrained the availability of funds to official sector lenders, and may have
contributed to prevent the emergence of a competitive market for municipal debt.
Municipal bonds require a lengthy process of prior approval by the Monetary Board
and the Securities Commission for each issue, and their use has been marginal.
D. Summary of sgues
2.18   Institutional Ca2aqitv of Local Governments.  The most critical hindrance
for the development of municipal services has been the limited capacity of local
governments to plan, implement, operate and maintain service facilities. As it
disengaged from handling local services, the central government transferred
substantial resources for the local governments to take charge. However, it did
not leave behind a sufficiently robust support framework to help local governments
build the organizational capacity needed to moet their new responsLbilities. A
training and technical asesitance effort is needed, directed both at the local
governments themselves and at the national and regional institutions responsible
to  support them.   Stronger incentive  are also needed, including landing



- 7 -
conditionality, to encourage local governments to improve their fiscal diecipline
and administrative efficiency and to invest in feasible projects.
2.19   Decline of the Propertv Tax.   While it was fair to increase inter-
governmental transfers in line with the responsibilities of local governments, this
may have encouraged mayors to neglect their own taxing Sower. The property tax
should be re-established as a major source of local revenues and as an essential
tool to contain speculative practices in the land and houoing markets. IGAC should
clear its registration backlog and resume a timely cycle of assessment updates, and
local governmentu should be prompted to exercise thelr legal responsibility to
collect the tax and encouraged to play a more active role in the day-to-day
maintenance of their cadasters.
2.20 Municival Inve :ment Finance. Apart from the few largest aities, local
governments have takei. little advantage of their increased borrowing capacity.
Their abillty to prepare sound investment proposals has been a major constraint as
noted above. Another bottleneck has been the limited availability of credit at the
long maturitLes needed for infrastructure investments.  This has largely been
lnduced by past financial sector policies of the government. The government has
now taken steps to remove policy obstacles to the development of a more competitive
financial system, but the full effect of these actiono may take years to
materialize. In this context, the role of the new apex agency FINDETER should be
to promote the development of a long-term credit market for municipal investment.
To do so, FINDETER must (a) use rediscounting for term transformation and not as
a channel of aubsidLes for regional redistribution, (b) adopt on-lending policies
promoting greater competLtion among intermediaries; and (c) provide advlce to its
borrowers and adopt lending conditionality conducive to the improvement of their
financial management and controls, which are key elements of their creditworthiness
and of their future capacity to directly tap the financial markets.
E.  ProsDects for Reform
2.21   The MuniciDal Development Prooram IMDPI . Conscious of the shortfalls which
have limited the beneflts of its decentralization policy so far, the Government has
launched a program of sector initlatlves known as the NDP. The thrust of the
program is to strengthen the operational capacity of local governmer.ts and thelr
financial performance, as a basis for a more effective and susthinable delivery of
local services. Specific measures included in the program ar': to: (a) implement
through FINDETER a new sector lending policy promoting better standards of project
preparation and selection, with a strong emphasis being placed on cost recovery and
on the institutional performance of benefielary entitievs5 (b) promote through
FINDETER's rediscount policies the emergence of a more responsive credit market for
municipal investment; (c) develop support agencies and technlcal assistance
capabilities in the regions to help local governments formulate their investment
and institutional development plans; (d) establish a network of training agencies
to improve the administrative skills of municlipal personnel; (e) disseminate among
local governments appropriate management tools, including informatLon systems based
on a standard plan of accounts; and (f) strengthen SGAC and complete cadastral
updates nationwide as a basLi for a more buoyant and equLtable property tax.
2.22   Prosoects for New LeaLlatLon.  Beyond the scope of this project, desirable
improvements in the legal and fiscal framework of decentralization will require now
legislation. Following a popular referendum of May 1990, the Government has called
an assembly to write a new constitution for the country by end June 1991.
Decentralization Le one of the main areas to be addressed by the assembly. While
the outcome of the constitutional review and subsequent legielation cannot be



- a -
predicted, the Government intendo to propose changeo aimed at improving the
accountability and incentive structure of local administrators.
F. aank Role and Strateav in the Sector.
2.23   Sector Exoerience.  Since 1968, the Bank has lent a total of US$70 million
for urban development in Colombia. In addition, Bank investments in urban water
supply projects since 1968 amount to US$425 million. The first Urban Project (Loan
1558-CO, US$18 million disbursed) financed investments in basic urban services in
23 cities. The Second Urban Project (Loan 1694-0O, US$8.7 million disbursed)
financed shelter-related infrastructure in Cartagena. Both projects achieved their
social objectives, but failed to establish effective institutione and cost recovery
mechanisms. The Popayan Earthquake Reconstruction Project war complete in mid-1988
and achieved its relief objective.. As an emergency reiief effort, it provided no
basis for a diulogue on structural issues in urban development.  Of more immediate
relevance to the proposed project are two urban infrastructure lines of credit
financed by the Interamerican Development Bank (IDS) through BCH/FFDU, both fully
committed. IDBS' audited completion report for the first of these projects, and
progress reports of the follow-up project, indicate that after a slow start while
the capacity of FFDU was being built up, the projects successfully achieved their
physical targets. However, limited Institutional improvements were achieved, and
deficiencies were observed in the operation of project facilities and in cost
recovery. The reports recommend that more emphasis be placed in the future on
upgrading the overall administrative capacity of project institutions. The lesaons
of IDB and Bank experience in the sector have been taken into account in the design
of the proposed project by (a) scaling the investment program conservatively; (b)
placing a greater emphasis than in the past on the overall  institutional
performance of project agencies; and (a) relying more on the use of up-front
conditionality to achieve institutional and cost recovery objectives.
2.24   on-oing ogerations. The Bank's present involvement in the development of
services under municipal authority comprises lending operations in various sectors,
including (a) the Second Rural Roads Sector Project (Loan 3157-CO), (b) the Rural
Development Investment Project (Loan 3250-00) supporting a program of grants to
poor municipalities for rural development and basic infrastructure including water
supply, roads an- rural marketse and (a) the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
Project (Loan 2961-C0) which supports an apex line of credit to local utilities.
The proposed project would complement the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project
by addressing other sub-sectors of urban infrastructure, and is designed similarly.
2.25   Country and sector Framework.  After a decade of sluggish growth, the
Government has taken steps to discontinue past policies that have distorted
resource allocation and led to inefficiencies in the productive sectors. The Bank
supports this program which includes actions towards a freer trade regime, reforms
in the financial sector, and divestment in public enterprises   The proposed
project supports, for municipal credit, sound poLicies recently adopted by the
Government to improve the competitiveness of the ftnancial sector. It would help
improve at the local level the efficiency of public expenditures, which at the
national level is the thrust of a Public Sector Reform Loan approved in December
1990. By improving basic services in a number of low-income communities, the
project would contribute to the Bank's strategy on poverty. In the urban sector,
the Bank supports the decentralization policy of the Government as a means to make
the provision of services more responsive to local needs. Specific objectives of
the Bank's sector strategy supported by the project Lnclude! (a) reduction of
subnational fiscal deficits through improved resource mobilLsation; (b) more
effective use of resources through improved selection and operation of investmo%nt



- 9 -
project-, (c) targeting of Lnvestment resources to meet the baeLc needs of the
country's poor; and (d) adoption of viable credit polliies in the municipal sector.
Ill. FINDETER - THE APEX AGENCY
A. Background
3.1    Established in 1968 under the Central Bank and transferred in 1975 to the
Central Mortgage Bank (BCH), the Urban Development Fund (FFDU) operated until 1990
as a rediscount facility for investment credit issued to local governmonts by
financial intermediaries. FPDU has developed into Colombia's largest and most
efficient lender for municipal infrastructure. It has executod two line. of credit
financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDS), and was appraised by the
Bank in 1988 as a capable executing entity for IBRD Loan 2961-CO (Water Supply and
Sewerage Sector Project). FFDU's location within BCH was a positlve factor while
it was small relative to BCH'e mainstraam mortgage operations. In BCH, FFDU
developed high professional standards,  was relatively immune from political
interference in it. lending decisions, and bonefitted from BCH's logistical
support. However, FFDU's fast expansion in the late 80's created conflicts of
priorities with the core mortgage business of BCH.
3.2   This led the government to decide to transform FFDU into a self-standing
intermediary. FINDITER was established by Decree 789 of 1990, as authorized by Law
57 of 1989, and is now operational. The department of DCH handling FFDU was
disbanded and most of its staff transferred to FINDETER. BCH has retained a small
crew to honor its commitments as executor of on-going external lines of credit, and
has contracted FINDETER to handle day-to-day supervision for these operations
including IBRD Loan 2961-CO. The government has requested that Loan 2961-CO be
transferred from BCH/FFDU to FINDETER as borrower and executing agency, and a
recommendation to the Bank's Executive Directors is being prepared to that offect.
3.3   While in aggregate FFDU'B interest rates were positive and covered its
costs, some of its policies have contributed to distortions in the financial
sector. These policies included (a) the use of interest rates varying with the
origin of funds and the size of beneficiary eLties; (b) the use of forced
investments of the financial sectors and (c) the practice of administratively
eottlng first-tier intermediation spreads rather than letting them be determined
competitively. In line with it. reforms of the flnancial sector, the Government
has adopted for FINDETER more transparent credit policies.
B. Oraanization and Manament of FINDETER.
3.4   FINDErTR li  a corporation affiliated to the Ministry of Finance and
supervised by the Superintendency of Banks. Its object is to rediscount credit
issued by intermedLaries to local governments for urban and regional development
investments.   Its shares are held by the natlonal government (86%) and the
departments (14%). The Board of Directors, chaired by the Minister of FLnance,
comprises the Chief of DUP, the head of the Central Bank, and representatives of
the CORPUS. FINDETeR's inLtial stafflng plan authorLzes 134 positions includlng
98 professionals or technicians. Its organliatLon chart (Annex 3) includes three
vice-presidencies (VP) fort (i) Credlt, in charge of lending; (ii) Development, in
charge of policy formulation; and (LLL) Finance and Administration, responsible for
resource moblilzation, cash management, accountLng, personnel and general sorvLie.
Also reporting to FINDETER's President are the offlce of the Secretary General who



- 10 -
ie in charge of legal and external affaire, and a small Internal Control office for
troubleshooting ln all areas of the operations and admlnistratlon of FINDE5TR.
3.5    The Credit VP Lncludes a central offlce and three zonal Divisions, whoBe
chlefs are based ln Bogota and supervise a total of elght reglonal field offices.
Day-to-day supervLison and appraisal work is done ln the field offlces with
technlcal support and quallty control from headquarters. Whlle its broad-gauged
project offlcers will concentrate on the instltutlonal and flnanclal features of
subprojecte, FINDETER lntends to contlnue FFDU'o tradition of using consultants as
technlcal speclallsts for appralsal and supervlsion work. As of March 1991, 80%
of authorLzed staff positions had been fillcd, Lncluding all management slots,
largely with staff transferred from FFDU.   FINDETER's management information
systems, inherlted from FFDU, are based on recent computer technology and provlde
for satiefactory controls of portfollo performance and budget compliance. External
audits are performed by a prlvate audlt firm ln addition to the legal supervlilon
exerclsed by the national Comptroller's Offiee and the Superlntendency of Banks.
3.6    Rediscount operatlons are approved by a National Loan Commlttee composed of
a representatlve of the Mlnliter of Flnance, one of DNP, two of the CORPES, one of
the flnanclal sector, and FINDETER's Preaident. The approval of smaller loans
(below US$0.8 mllion equivalent) can be delegated to Departmental Committees -ahLch
comprise representatlves of FINDETER, of the local CORPES and ODP, and of either
the fLnancLal sector, area mayors, or profeselonal groups. Loan approval requires
a unanimous vote of committee members, and thus cannot be glven agaLnet FINDETER's
judgment. FINDUTER also determlnes which projects are ready and suitable to be
presented to the lending committees.  In lts first two years of operationo,
FINDETER intends to (a) have all the projects lt processes durlng thle period,
includlng those below regLonal delegation ceilings, cleared by the Credit VP; and
(b) be represented ln all regional loan commLttees by senlor head office staff
rather than by reglonal staff. These arrangements are designed to ensure that
FINDETER's lendlng pollcy le understood by all staff before delegatlon takes place.
C. FinancLal Structure and Policy.
3.7    FINDETER's inltlal subscribed capital has been sat by lts first assembly of
shareholders at Col$29.60 billion (US$52 milLon), of which Col$12.60 billion
(US$22.1 mllion) is pald ln, wlth the balance to be pald by May 1991. It has
received balanced assets and liabilitLes each of about Col$103 bllion (US$181
mllion) transferred from FFDU. It will also contract internal and external debt
wlthln a legal debt/equLty ratio celilng of 10:1, and may act as fiducLary agent
for foreign borrowLngs or targeted grant programs of the Government. In addltlon
to lts borrowings, FINDUTER will mobillze natLonal savlngs by iesuing bonds at
terms which under current legLilatLon need prlor approval by the Monetary Board.
The bonds are expected to have 3-5 years maturltles and varlable rates pegged and
close to the market flxed-term deposit rate (DTF).
3.8    FINDETBR will operate one rediscount window with a aingle variable ln+erest
rate and axaimum percentage (85%) of rediscounting. Maturltles and grace perlods
are determLned ln relatlon to the assets flnanced, wlthin maxima of 12 and 3 years
respectively. The redLicount rate li set by FINDETER's Board within guldelines of
the Monetary Board.  Resolutlon 43 of September 1990 of the Monetary Board
establlihes that the rate may not be lower than the market deposLt rate (DTF), and
must cover the costs of resources and operatlon of FINDETER.



- 11 -
D. First-tier Intermediation.
3.9    FINDETER channels funds by rediscounting, with intermediaries bearing the
credit  risk.    The spread they charge to each sat-bori, zr , is determined
compeiitively based on their own assessment of this risk, up co an interest rate
ceiling set by the Monetary Board at DTF + 5 percentage points. The Government
considers the ceiling necessary given the limited competitlveness of the Colombian
financial sector. While no specific market rate could be calculated for municipal
lending, such rate is thought to be lower than DTF+5%, reflecting a low default
risk as repayment is secured in cash through the pledging of revenues. Less than
2% of the loans rediscounted by FFDU in 15 years have experienced arrears. Given
this low risk FFDU never met a shortage of intermediation, though the spreads it
allowed to its intermediaries were oet at only 1.5-2%. While designed to foster
competition among intermediaries and thus reduce the cost of funds to well-managed
sub-borrowers, the new ceiling arrangement substantially increases the authorized
intermediation spread. Based on FFDU'e experience this is expected to allow for
adequate voluntary participation of intermediaries in FINDETER's operations.
3.10   To further enhance competition among intermediaries, the government has
approved in September 1990 a decree authorizing privately owned banks to handle the
cash and savings of local governments. This was before a privilege of official
banks, which explained the limited interest displayed by private-sector banks in
establishing relationships with local governments. Leos than 15% of the amounts
disbursed by FFDU during 1975-90 went through privately owned banks, while these
hold about 40% of total financial sector assets.
3.11   Law 57/89 creating FINDETER provides that in addition to commercial banks,
FINDETER may in the future channel funds through regional development finance
corporations (DFCs), which would become supervised by the Superintendency of Banks
under a special supervision regime yet to be designed. While the participation of
such intermediaries is expected to be minor, it could create a risk for FINDETER's
portfolio as the Superintendency of Banks, given its resource constraints, may not
scrutinize the operations of DFCe as closely as it does for institutions handling
private savings. A condition of the proposed Loan would be that FINDETER channels
funds only through intermediaries who receive voluntary savings of the public.
S. Financial Analysis of FINDETER.
3.12   Annex 6 shows a five-year projection of FINDETER's financial statements.
With the Project and supposing that Loan 2961-Co is transferred to FINDETER from
BCH, FINDETER's disbursements are projected to grow at 5% per year in real terms.
During the period FINDETER would keep its asset/equity ratio lower than 4:1.
operating costs would on average represent 1.0% of assets, a relatively high level
explained by the demands of appraising projects and providing guidance to generally
unsophisticated borrowers. As FINDETER will keep the portfolio of FFDU and related
liabilities, which provide low margins, its aggregate profitability will only move
gradually towards the levels resulting from its own financial policies. With an
average financial margin of about 11% of aasets for 1991-95, FINDETER is expected
to achieve real returns on equity of about 5 in 1991 and higher than 8% from 1994.
3.13   As it will lend and borrow both at variable rates, FINDETER will not be
materially exposed to interest rate risks. Credit risks are addressed by the
intermediation and revenue pledging arrangements, as evidenced by the default-free
history of FFDU's lending. Exchange rate risks related to devaluations of the
Colombian Peso beyond inflation differentials do not present a substantial threat
to FINDETER's financial integrity, as most of the existing external loans to be



- 12 -
transferred from FFDTU include a Government comitment to compensate BCH/FFDU
against the effect of real devaluations. Overall, FINDETER'a flnanicLal structure,
polLeLes and operating condltlons allow for a solid financial instLtution, able to
more than maLntain the real value of lts capital whlle not presentLng a hlgh
profitabLlity due to a conservatlve gearLng pollcy, a low-yleld initLal portfolio
inherlted from FFDU, and the high operating costs needed to achieve lts real sector
objectLves.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. or4laLn
4.1    Since a review of flical reforms in mld-1986, the Bank and the Government
had an extensive dialogue on decentralization Lisues, including a sector study
(Report no. 7870-CO) whlch Ldentified the need for improved resource mobLlizatLon
at the local level.  ThiL  dialogue led to the formulation of the project now
proposed in support of the Government's MDP. The InLtLal Executlve Project Summary
was iosued in March 1988, and the project was appraLsed in June 1989. Project
procesolng was then halted as the government put through its project to create
FINDETER and diomantle PFDU, whlch had been evaluated as the executing agency for
the project. The appraisal was completed in October 1990, once FINDTIER had been
set up and its financial pollcies defined.
B. obiectives
4.2    The Project aims to aseset the Government in the implementation of its
Municipal  Development  Program.    Specific  objectives  are  to:  (a)  remove
infrastructure bottlenecks and improve the coverage and operation of local
services, especially for low-income groups, in cities and towns with an aggregate
population of over S million; (b) improve the financial performance of beneflciary
local governments by inducing higher cost recovery standards for revenue-generating
services, rationalizing Lnvestment and service administration, and promoting a
greater mobilization of local resourcesl (c)  strengthen  capabilities  at  the
national and regLonal levels to provlde technical guidance to local governments,
and improve the skills of key municipal personnel in the areas of revenue
administration, expenditure management, and the planning and delivery of local
services; and (d) improve the municipal resource base by strengthening the
country's capability for cadaster definition and update.
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.3    The project would assist the implementation of the Municipal Development
Program (MDP), formulated by the Government as one of its highest-priority programs
to underpin its decentralization pollcy. It would contribute to major objectives
of the Bank's sector strategy, including (a) improving the coverage of baslc
services and the living conditions of the country's poor; (b) promoting a more
effective use of resources through improved selection, execution and operatlon of
investment projects; (e) reducing fiscal deficits through a greater mobilization
of local resources and improved management of public expenditures at the
subnational level; and (d) adoption of improved credit polLcies in the municipal
sector.  Bank involvement during project execution would help maintain strict
standards of subproject qualLty and a strong emphasie on building up institutions.



- 13 -
D. Descrintion
4.4    The project includes the following componentst (A) a line of credit under
which FINDETER would rediscount subloans to subnational government entities in
support of about 300 subprojects to improve urban infrastructure and local servlces
and to strengthen beneficiary institutions (84% of project cost); (B) actions to
build up the operating capacity of FINDETER and to develop lts lending pipeline (2%
of costs)I (C) the creation of a training network in the regions, the execution of
institutional assessments of about 700 local governments, and the delivery of
training to about 6,400 sector personnel in the areas of planning and budgeting,
revenue administration, book-keeping, community participation, and the design,
operation and maintenance of local services (5% of costs)l and (D) a program to
strengthen IGAC and carry out the registration of 4.3 million parcels nationwide
(9% of project costs). The Government will be the Borrower. FINDETER will execute
Components A and B. The Government will transfer the amounts disbursed by IDB and
IBRD under Components A and B to FINDETER as equity contributLons. DNP will
execute Component C, with the participation of training institutions and regional
agencies. IGAC will execute Component D.
4.5    Comoonent A - Investment Subproiects.  The line of credit administered by
FINDETER would support subloans originated by eligible intermediaries to
subnational governments and municipal enterprises for about 300 subprojects to
rehabilitate, improve or expand urban infrastructure and local services in sectors
under municipal responsibility initially including streets and traffic engineering,
solid waste management, slum upgrading, bus terminals, market places, parks and
recreational facilities, river wharves, slaughterhouses, local telephone networks,
and the rehabilitation and improvement of existing primary health facilities. Also
eligible would be technical assistance to help local governments plan and prepare
proposals, or to strengthen local institutions.  Cadaster subprojects would be
eligible in the areas not covered by IGAC.
4.6    The Government intends to request during project execution that new sectors
of municipal investment other than the above be declared eligible. Such sectors
are expected to include schools, the construction of new health posts, basic
infrastructure for low-income housing programs, and investments for environmental
protection. These are new areas of municipal responsibility, for which a policy
framework for FINDETER lending had not been finalized by appraisal. IDB and the
Bank would consider requests by the Government to include new sectors of municipal
investment, based on prior agreement between the Government, FINDETER and the Banks
on a policy framework and eligibility criteria for FINDETER lending in such
sectors.
4.7    The size of 4,he component, equivalent to an investment program of less than
US$2 per inhabitar -w.r year, is modest in regard of urban infrastructure needs
nationwide.  The    lateral capacity of local governments boosted by the VAT
transfers could support a larger operation. Rather than using demand aggregates,
the component has been scaled in line with the projected capacity (a) of FINDETER
to appraise and supervise projects; (b) of local governments to prepare and
implement them; and (c) of intermediaries to on-lend. This capacity was projected
in  reference  to  the past  disbursements  of  FFDU.    During  1983-89  FFDU's
intermediaries disbursed an average US$33 million per year, not counting sub-
borrower's counterpart funds of _.out 20%, for eligible sectors.  The component
would support 70% of sector lending by I.'TNDETER during five years assuming that (i)
FINDETER's sector disbursements for 1.1 will be 25% below the average annual
disbursoments of FFDU during 1983-39, allowing for a slow start-up of FINDETER and
for the effect of introducing stricter eligibility criteria; and (ii) after 1991



- 14 -
FINDETER's disbursements will grow at 5% per year in real terme. The 1991-92
projection is consistent with FINDETER's existing pipeline assuming a 50% mortality
of investment proposals between identification and approval, and extrapolating
FFDU's experience for the relationehLp and time lag between commitment and
disbursement.
4.8    The investments will be demand-driven and their sectoral and regional
distribution will result from the priorities of individual local governments and
their capacity to present sound projects. FINDETER has an indicative target to
allocate 20% or more of its lending to rural municipalities, and a policy to seek
a balanced regional distribution of its lending and to emphasize poverty
alleviation. However, no binding quotas will apply as these might result in either
rejecting good applications from the most advanced cities or accepting sub-standard
projects in depressed regions. Rather, FINDETER through its promotion efforts and
DNP thz-ough Component C of the Project will seek to upgrade project preparation
capabilities where deficient. Based on FFDU's lending experience (Annex 2), the
sectoral composition of investments would be dominated by streets and solid waste.
The cost of subprojects is expected to vary from US$50,000 to US$10 million with
an average of about US$0.5 million.
4.9    Comoonent B - Strenathening of FINDETER'. ODeratina Caoacity  (Annex  4),
including: (a) training of FINDETER's staff for the evaluation of municipal
projects and institutions; (b) equ.pment for the regional offices of FINDETER; (c)
office equipment and services to develop the information systems of FINDETER; (d)
the implementation with DNP of an information system to monitor municipal
performance; (e) studies for methodology development, including a study of regional
cost-efficiency comparators for simplified appraisal of small investments; (f)
training events and materials to disseminate FINDETER's project preparation
guidelines among borrowers and consultants; and (g) a program of technical
assistance and outreach in the regions to develop and maintain a pipeline of
subprojects suitable for FINDETER lending.
4.10   Comoonent C - Training and InstitutLonal Suopnort  (Annex 7), including
training and institutional development actions directed both at the local
governments and at agencies responsible to advise them.   Specif ic activities
include: (a) development of training curricula and materials, and training of about
800 trainers of ESAP, SENA and regional training institutions; (b) technical
assistance and training of about 200 staff in the CORPES and ODPe to improve their
capacity to advise local governments; (c) preparation led by the ODPo of
institutional assessments and strengthening programs for about 685 local
governments; (d) delivery to about 5,400 municipal staff of a training program
including courses on (i) planning and budgeting; (ii) project management; (iii)
financial management; (iv) local government organization; (v) the implementation
and use of management information systems (MIS)l (vi) cadaster maintenance; (vii)
administration of local taxes; (viii) community participation in local government;
(ix) operation and administration of municipal services; and (x) supervision of
small-scale public works; (e) dLesemination of appropriate technologies for
municipal services; and (f) support activities at the national level including (i)
studies of decentralization issues such as municipal finance, revenue sharing,
civil service career, expenditure management and audits; (Ui) development of a
standard municipal plan of accounts and related computerized information systems;
and (iii) establishment of a national roster of consultants with expertise in the
area of municipal management and the preparation of municipal development projects.
4.11   Comoonent D -  Municinal Cadastere (Annex 8). This component would help the
National Geographic Institute (IGAC) improve its operating capacity and complete



- 15 -
its on-going program of updating municipal cadasters nationwide. The component
would finance: (a) field and office equipment and vehicles; (b) services to
computerize records; (c) services of aerial photography; (d) fleld survey services
for the cadastral formation or update of about 4.3 million parcelus and (e) the
development and implementation of a system to monitor IGAC's unit costs per
activity. IGAC agreed at negotiations that it would carry out the component in
accordance to agreed annual output targets for mapping and for cadastral
registration and property assessment updates, and that it would implement by June
1992 a system to better control its unit costs per activity.
4.12   Under a separate project, the Swiss Government has agreed to finance
cartographic equipment, equipment-related training and technical assistance for
IGAC, and contra_ts for maintenance services. While formal co-financing was not
found practical, the Swios Government and the Bank have closely cooperated in the
appraisal of their respective projects ensuring complementarity of activities and
of the expenditures financed.   In addition, the Dutch Government supports an
extensive training program including in-house courses and scholarships abroad for
technical staff, professionals and managers of I6AC.
E. Proiect Costs and Financina.
4.13   Costs.   The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$188 million
equivalent (Table IV.1), with a foreign cost element of about 48%. Costs include
provisions for taxes estimated to amount to about US$10 million. Each component
is a program of a pre-set amount, for which physical contingencies do not apply.
The amount allocated to each component allows for expected price inflation based
on Bank projections as of November 1990.
Table IV.1 - Summary of Costs
(US$ million)
Component                            Foreian  Local   Total        %
Municipal Projects                    72.0    86.2   158.2       84%
Infrastructure                      68.2    79.8   148.0       79%
Instit. Development                  2.5     2.5     5.0        3%
Strdies & Designs                    1.3     3.9     5.2        3%
Instit. Dev. FINDETER                  1.6     2.4     4.0        2%
Training                               3.8     6.1    10.0        5%
Cadaster                              11.9     4.1    16.0        9%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    89.4    98.8   188.2      100%
4.14   Financina Plan.  The proposed IBRD loan of US$60 million would finance 32%
of total project cost. External sources including IDB and IBRD would provide for
55% of project costs, equivalent to the foreign exchange element and about 15% of
local costs.  The level of external financing would vary between components as
shown in Table IV.2. For Component A, sub-borrowers would provide funds for 30%
of component costs (see para.4.22). Subloans issued by financial intermediaries
would finance the remaining 70% of component costs. Out of this, FINDETER would
rediscount 85%, or 60% of costs. The Bank and IDB in turn would disburse to the



- 16 -
Government, whlch would transfer to FINDETER as equLty, 85% of the amounts
redLscounted by FINDETER for eligible subprojects, equLvalent to an aggregate 51%
external flnanclng for the component. IDB would finance 100% of Component B costs.
For Component C, IBRD would flnance 80% of costs, wlth counterpart funds provlded
by the natLonal government and the CORPES. For Component D, IBRD would flnance 75%
of costs and the national government through IGAC 25%.
Table IV.2 - Flnancino Plan
(Us$ million)
Component:  a        a       c=al                       I
Financings
sub-borrower's equity        47.5                             47.5      25.2%
CORPES                                        0.7              0.7       0.4%
Financial Intermed.          16.6                             16.6       8.8%
FINDETER                     14.1                             14.1       7.5%
Natl. Government                              1.3     4.0      5.3       2.8%
IDB                         40.0      4.0                     44.0      23.4%
IBRD                        40.0              8.0    12.0    60.0       31.9%
Total                      158.2     4.0    10.0    16.0   188.2      100.0%
4.15   Co-f inancing with IDS. The only component receiving funds from both IDB and
IBRD loan is Component A. While agreement exists between the Bank and IDB on
subproject eligibility crlteria, joLnt financlng of subprojects is not practical
as some procurement rules of IDB and IBRD dlffer, such as country eligibLlity. IDB
and IBRD would thus each finance separate subprojects.  FINDETER would submit
subproject applications ln turn to IDB or IBRD according to which of them is least
committed under previously approved subprojects. IDB or IBRD would keep each other
informed of their approval decisions and commltment level, and would not consider
subloans previously submitted to each other.
4.16   As IDB Ls in the process of finallizng its appraisal, its particlpation
cannot be fully confirmed at this stage.   The proposed IDB loan may become
effective later than the proposed IBRD loan. As each Bank would finance separate
activities, thls event would not directly affect the execution of the components
flnanced by the Bank. The activlties under Component B to strengthen FINDETER and
develop its lendlng pipeline, which are expected to be financed by IDS, are
critical for the success of Component A. FINDETER and the Government agreed at
negotiations that they would disburse in a timely manner all contributLons needed
for the execution of Component B, regardless of the status and timing of the
proposed IDB financing.
F. ODeration of the LLne of Credit (Component A).
4.17   Beneficiary Entities.  Eligible subproject entities would lnclude local
governments and their agencies or enterprises, including private or mixed-capital
companies operating services on behalf of local governments. In addition to the
above, departmental agencies would be eligible sub-borrowers for regional programs
of municipal investments.
4.18   ElkLgble.ijancial Intermedlaries would be financial institutions who (a)
habitually receive and invest voluntary savings of the public (b) are supervised
by, and in good standing with, the Superintendency of Banks; and (c) have been
appraLsed by FINDETER, using criteria and methods satisfactory to the Bank, as



- 17 -
being creditworthy, able to assess municipal credit risk, and having appropriate
financial controls especially with respect to portfolio performance.
4.19   Elicibilitv Crlteria.   FINDETER will only finance subprojecto meeting
ellgibillity criteria agreed on during appraieal. The criteria, summarized in Annex
9, are specific to each sector and reflect (a) the technical, economic and
financial feasibility of the subproject and the adequacy of its implementation
arrangements; (b) its environmental soundness, especially for sensitive subsectors
such as solid waste, slaughte=houses, marketplaces, and river wharves; (c) the
adequacy of the arrangements in place or proposed to operate, maintain and
adminLster project assetst and (d) for revenue-generating sectors, compliance with
cost recovery minima to be achleved up-front. Private sector alternatives will be
promoted for subprojects in revenue-earning sectors.
4.20   In addition to appraising the financlal and institutlonal feaeibility of
each subproject, FINDETER will carry out an assessment of the overall performance
of the candidate subproject beneficiary i Jency, using criteria summarized in Annex
9 which include (a) adequacy of organization and book-keeping arrangements; (c)
financial indicators, including ratio of current expenditures to revenues and debt
service coverage ratio; and (d) fiscal performance indicators, including property
tax collection ratio for municipal adminletratLons and tariff collection
performance for municipal enterprises.  Subproject entitLes found not to meet
minimal performance standards will be required to commit themselves to specific
plans of actions with covenanted targets, and to take up-front, before any
commitment of physical investment funds, all legal or pricing actions needed to
achieve these standards.
4.21   The eligibility criteria reflect sector policies of the Government, and will
apply to all FINDETER lending regardless of the origin of funds. They are spelled
out in an agreed Credit Regulations statement (Reglamento de Credito) adopted by
FINDETER. As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan, FINDETER will
prepare and adopt a Lending Operational Manual, acceptable to the Bank, specifying
procedures to be used by FINDETER's staff, intermediaries and sub-borrowers to
ensure compliance with the Credit Regulations. FINDETER agreed at nt-lotiations
that it would lend only for projects meeting the eligibility criteria set in the
Credit Regulations.
4.22   Sub-borrower's Counterpart Funding. Each sub-borrower would be required to
provide equity contributions of at least 30% of total subproject costs for
subprojects approved by FINDETER (a) before October 1, 1993, in municipalities of
more than 100,000 inhabitants; (b) from October 1, 1993, in municipalities of more
than 50,000 inhabitants. Below these population thresholds, equity contributions
of 20% would be required for each subproject. The rationale for this arrangement
ie that smaller municipalities, in contrast with the more indebted larger cities,
have made little use of credit so far and have invested insufficiently.  Moreover,
their revenues are projected to grow due to the phased increase of the VAT
transfers under Law 12/86, and to the government's technical assistance programs
(Component C) targeted at improving their revenue administration capacities. In
the long term, however, FINDETER intends to unify its counterpart requirements for
all borrowers. This will be done by gradually reducing the population level below
which lower contributions are required, with a first step in 1993, two years after
the expected date of Loan effectiveness.
4.23   Based on the dietribution of FINDETER's exieting pipeline by size of
municipalitLes, the above would result in a 27% contribution from sub-borrowers to
the costs of Component A as a whole, assuming that no sub-borrower provides more



- la -
than the minimal mandatory contribution.   At leaet 3% of component costs are
expected to be provided by third-party credit from departmental credit institutes,
Coffee Growers Federation and other regional co-financiers, completing the
financing plan of the component which calls for a 30% financing by sub-borrowers.
4.24   On-lendina Terms are those described in Chapter III-C.   FINDETER will
rediscount credits at a variable interest rate pegged to the market deposit rate
(DTF). Maturity and grace periods for subloan amortization will be established for
each sector of investment, within maxima of 12 years and 3 years respectively.
FINDETER will keep its rediscount rate at no less than DTF plus one and a half
percentage point (DTF+1.5%).   Intermediaries will assume the credit risk, and
charge a spread determined competitively, up to an interest rate ceiling set by the
Monetary Board. The ceiling will be not be less than DTF+5%, and will be kept at
a level sufficient to allow for adequate voluntary participation of intermediaries.
FINDETER will monitor the participation of intermediaries and the government will
adjust the ceiling if such participation is found to be constrained by the ceiling.
4.25   Before negotiations, FINDET8R's Board has adopted a resolvtLon settlng
rediscounting terms acceptable to the Bank. The rediscount rate initially adopted
by FINDETER is DTF+2.5%.  These terms would be adjusted from time to time to
reflect changes in market conditions or in FINDETER's financial position.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations from FINDETER that it would maintain on-
lending terms and credit policies acceptable to the Bank, as defined in Annex 5,
and that it would earn annual pre-tax returns on its equity which in real terms
will be positive for 1991, not less than 3% for 1992, and not less than 5%
thereafter.
4.26   Pipeline Development and Outreach.  The Bank has reviewed subprojects of a
total cost in excess of the US$20 million needed to meet first-year disbursement
targets. To maintain a sufficient pipeline of investment proposals suitable for
FINDETER lending, Component B will include a technical assistance and outreach
program. The program, which has an estimated cost of US$2.0 million, will finance
services of consultants famillar with FINDETER's lending policies and requirements,
who will assist candldate borrowers in the preparation of planning and pre-
feasibility studies, institutional and tariff studies, coordination and quality
control of feasibility and detailed engineering studies, the design of
institutional development measures to be included in subprojects, and environmental
impact assessments.
4.27   Legal Documentation of Subloans.  The legal instruments to be used for on-
lending are: (a) rediscounting agreements between FINDETER and financial
intermediaries; (b) subloan agreements between financial intermediaries and sub-
borrowers; (c) project agreements between FINDETER and sub-borrowers; and (d) if
the financing plan includeb contributions by third parties, sponsoring agreements
between them and the sub-borrower. The Bank will disburse only against subprojects
for which satisfactory on-lending agreements have been concluded, based on model
legal documents to be presented to the Bank as a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Loan.
4.28   Subloan Anoroval Procedures are those described in Chapter 111-B.  While
regional agencies are to play an increasingly important part in assisting local
governments to prepare investment proposals and may assemble departmental packages
of eligLble investments on behalf of their constituent municipalitles, FINDETER
will retain sole responsibility to appraise, approve and supervise each subloan.



- 19 -
4.29   Bank Review of Suboroiects.  IDB and IBRD will review FINDITER's appraisal
and draft on-lending documents before subloan approval by FINDETER for (a) the
first four subprojects in each of the urban streets and solid waste sectorsa (b)
the two first subprojects in each other eligible sectoru (c) all urban street
subprojects and multi-community subprojects of amounts higher than US$3 million;
and (d) all other subprojects of amounts higher than US$l million.   For all
subprojects and prior to related disbursement., IDB or IBRD will review on-lendLng
documents and executive summaries based on agreed formats and providing sufficient
information for the Banks to assess compliance with the eligibility criteria (Annex
11). Sample reviews of subprojects in execution would be carried out by the Bank
during supervision missions. FINDETER agreed at negotiations that it would adhere
to the above subproject review arrangements.
4.30   Sub-borrowers Comnliace.  FINDETER agreed at negotiations that it would
exercise, in a manner to achieve the objectives of the Project, its right to
suspend its disbursements to beneficiaries not complying with on-lending
agreements.   The would also reserve the right to suspend disbursements for
subprojects not complying with the on-lending agreements.
4.31   Coordination with Components C and D. FINDETER will present to DIP on a
quarterly basis lists of its subprojects under identification or appraisal.
Candidate sub-borrowers which in FINDETER Is opinion would need training support or
a cadaster update in order to qualify for investment lending will receive priority
in the execution of the municipal training program under Component C, or as needed
in the programming of IGAC's cadastral coverage.
Q.  Im21ementation of Trainina (Component C).
4.32   Aaencv Aes_nsibilities.  DNP will execute Component C with the technical
participation of (a) ESAP and SENA for course preparation, training of trainers,
and delivery to municipal personnel; and (b) in each region the local CORPES or ODP
for the training of their own staff and to program, coordina.e and monitor the
training of municipal staff. All participating agencies will enter with DNP into
operational agreements acceptable to the Bank. The administrative rules to be
adhered to by DNP and participating agencies for the implementation c_ Component
C are set forth in an agreed Operating Manual presented by DNP at negotiations.
4.33   To facilitate the handling of the large number of small procurement and
disbursement actions entailed by component activities, DIP intends to contract the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) as procurement and administration agent
for the component.  The conclusion by DNP of (a) an administration contract
satisfactory to the Dank with UNDP or another qualified agentg and (b) operational
agreements with ESAP, SENA, and at least five participating CORPUS or Departments,
would be conditions for effectiveness.
4.34   Annual Programmina. Training activities will be carried out in accordance
with an agreed plan of action with monitorable annual targets (Annex 7). Detailed
annual implemwntation programs specifying the activities of each participating
agency, acceptable to the Bank, will be prepared by DNP and presented to the Bank
each year by September 30 for the following year. The programs for each region
will be based upon surveys and assessments of municipal training needs and
priorities established annually by particlpating CORPUS and ODPe.  Eligible
expenditures for the component would be only those incurred under contracts
pertaining to annual implementation progrms approved by the Bank.  DNP has
presented the program and budget of component activities for the first year of the
project. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that DIP would carry out component



- 20 -
activities in accordance with the agreed plan of action, annual implementation
programs, and operating manual.
H.  Monitoring. Reports. audits and Annual Reviews.
4.35   Monitoring and Reportina.  To monitor sector progress DNP has started to
develop an information system with indicators related to service coverage and to
the operational and financial performance of local governments. The system would
be implemented by end 1991 and would be the basis for preparing annual sector
performance reports using agreed formats and indicators. DNP for the project as
a whole, and FINDETER for Components A and B would prepare annual project progress
reports. The progress reports would describe past achievements and compare them
to appraisal projections (Annex 15), provide a critical assessment of problems
arising during project execution, and propose remedial actions in case of
unsatisfactory progress. DNP and FINDETER would present to the Bank the above
sector performance report and project progress reports each year by March 30,
starting in 1992. DNP would present to the Bank a project completion report no
later than six months after the closing date of the loan. At negotiations the
Government and FINDETER agreed on the above reporting arrangements.
4.36   Audit.  FINDETER, DNP and IGAC would maLntain separate project accounts
each for the components under its responsibility, and would have them audited
annually by independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audits would
include the operations of the Special Account and statement of expenditure records.
In addition, FINDETER would have its financial statements audited annually by
independent external auditors acceptable and under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank. Under Component A, subproject executing entities would be required
to keep separate subproject accounts and have them audited by independent auditors
in a manner satisfactory to FINDETER and the Bank. FINDETER' s auditors would audit
subproject accounts on a sample basis. The audit reports for all components would
be submitted to the Bank each year by June 30 for the previous year.
4.37   Annual Reviews. Based on the audit, project and sector performance reports
described above, the Government, FINDETER and IGAC would carry out with IDB and the
Bank each year by November 15 formal joint reviews of progress achieved towards
reaching the objectives of the MDP and in the implementation of the Project. One
of the annual reviews, two or three years into project execution, would be expanded
into a compreheni'ive mid-term review of progress in project implementation and
sector adjustment. The reviews would provide a forum to assess program and project
issues such as the performance of project executing agencies, progress in the
training component and the efficacy of the training provided, cadaster coverage and
collection performance of the property tax, the on-lending terms and finaAcial
policies of FINDETER, the administrative and fiocal performance of subproject
beneficiaries and their compliance with subloan covenants, and --he quality of
subprojects. If necessary, the review; would lead to the formulation of plans for
remedial actions  satisfactory to the Bank.   Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government, FINDETER and IGAC would carry out to the
satisfaction of the Bank the action plans agreed to during the annual reviews.
It Procurement
4.38   Procurement for Component A would be handled by subproject executing
agencies under the control of FINDETUR. FINDETUR would handle procurement for
Component 3, DNP for Component C, and IGAC for Component D.  Under parallel
financing IDB would finance (a) subprojects under Component A amounting to half the
total cost of that component; and (b) Component B. IDB's procurement guidelines



- 21 -
would apply for these activities. WLth the exception of the above activities
financed by IDS, procurement methods and procedures reviewed by and satisfactory
to the Bank would be employed.
4.39   Table IV.3 summarizes procurement arrangements.  International competltive
bidding (ICB) would be ueed for civil works contracts in excess of US$2.0 mllion
and goods contracts in excess of US$300,000. For the procurement of goods, local
competitive bidding (LCB) acceptable to the Bank would be used for contracts
between US$20,000 and US$300,000. A preference margin of 15% would be granted to
local manufacturers for goods contracts procured under ICB. Local shopping with
a least three quotations would be used for goods contracts with estimated costs
less than US$20,000. For civil works, contracts between US$200,000 and U8S2.0
million would be awarded through LCB, and contracts below US$200,000 would be
awarded on bids from at least three qualified centractors.   Procurement for
consultant services and training would be done in accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.40   All procurement for works and for goods would use standard bidding documents
satisfactory to the Bank, based on the model bidding documents used by BCH/FFDU for
Loan 2961-CO. Assurances to that effect were obtained at negotiations. Prior Bank
review and approval will be required for all procurement documents and contracts
for the first two contracts for works and the first two contracts for goods
procured under LCB, mnd for all ICB procurement. All other procurement will be
reviewed ex post on a selective basis. FINDETER, DNP and IOAC will retain all
procurement documentation for review by Bank missions.
Table IV.3 - Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million) a/
Proiect Element            -Bank, by Proc. Method-
Ztfl    LCD Lo  ther       I  e/   Total
Goods                    13.7    13.7     6.8 b/    23.9       58.1
(10.1)   (7.0)   (3.0)      (0.0)    (20.1)
Civil Works             10.2    35.5      5.1 b/    50.7      101.5
(5.2)  (18.2)   (2.6)      (0.0)    (26.0)
Services                                 19.2 c/     7.5       26.6
(13.9)      (0.0)    (13.9)
Land                                      1.0 d/     1.0 d/    2.0
1- 0- 01 I0-0L
Total                   23.8    49.2    32.1         83.1      188.2
(15.3)  (25.2)  (19.5)       (0.0)    (60.0)
at  Including taxes and contingencies.  Amounts in parentheses show allocation
from IBRD loan proceeds, which do not include taxes.
b/ Local shopping.
c/  studies, technical assistance, training  designs, supervision of works,
coputer services, cadastral survey and aerial photography services.
d/ Land acquisitlon procured in accordance with government legLelation.
ej Amounts procured under finanelng and guidelines of the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDS).



- 22 -
J. Disbursements
4.41   The disbursement schedule of the Bank loan would be set at 6 years
reflecting IBRD etandard disbursement profiles for sector projects. The closing
date of the project would be December 30, 1997. Loan proceeds would be disbursed
against: (a) for Comnonent A, 85% of the amounts rediscounted by FINDETER to
financial intermediaris (i for eligible subprojects, i.e. subprojects meeting the
agreed eligibility criteria and accepted by the Bank in accordance with the
established review procedurees and (ii) against eligible expenditures, i.e.
contracts for works, goods and services procured in accordance with procurement
arrangements agreed to with the Bank; (b) for Combonent C, 80% of all expenditures
under eligible contracts for goods and services pertaining to annual component
implementatlon programs approved by the Bank; and (c) for Component D, 75% of all
expenditures under eliglble contracts for goods at-d servlces.  Component B li
expected to be financed by IDB and would not involve Bank dLebursements.
4.42   Disbursements for eligible expenditures for civil works contracts valued at
under US$2.0 million and for goods contracts valued at under US$300,000 would be
made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation would be
retained by FINDETER, DNP and IGAC and available for revlew by Bank staff.
Retroactive financing not exceedlng US$6 million would be provided for expenditures
approved by the Bank and incurred between October let, 1990 and slgning of the loan
agreement. To facilitate the disbureement of funds from the Bank loan, a Special
Account would be established in Banco de la Republica with an initial deposit
of US$4.5 million, equivalent to an average four month disbursements. FINDETER,
DNP and IGAC would have access to the account.
IS, Snef Lt
4.43   The project would improve infrastructure and municipal services in a number
of cities and towns with an aggregate population of over 5 million.   Direct
economic benefits would mostly materialize in the form of Lncreased land values in
beneficiary  areas.    The  implementation  of  solid waste,  marketplaces  and
slaughterhouse investments including sanltary precautions and sound waste disposal
schemes would help reduce the negative health and environmental impact which result
from the haphazard food processing and waste management arrangements now prevalent
in many communities. Trafflc management subprojects would yield savings of vehicle
operating costs, and help reduce congestion-related air contamination from vehicle
exhausts. In addition to its impact on vehicle operating costs or land value, the
paving or repair of urban streets would help reduce the production of dust
particulates by vehicular traffic on unpaved or broken road surfaces, wlth
beneficial effects on air quality and health.
4.44   Subproject eligibility criterLa would include a minimal economli  rate of
return (ERR) of 12%. Subproject ERRs measured upor, completion of past IDB credit
lines through FFDU were substantially higher than 12%. Improving the coverage of
basic services will prlmarlly benefit low-income areas. In post-evaluatLons by IDS
of past IFDU subprojects, between 60% and 80% of total benefits were estimated to
accrue to people with incomes below the poverty line. Indirect benefits would
accrue from the execution of more cost-effective projects, the improvement of
maintenance capabilities, the application of more transparent service prLcing,
Lmproved institutLonal arrangements, and human resource development.
I               ~I *



- 23 -
L.   nvirom,nental Asnects
4.45   The investment subprojects in the solid waste sector would have a positive
environmental impact in beneficiary communities and downstream of rivers. FINDETER
does not finance any solid waste subproject, even if the sub-borrower's request
deals only with the collection system, unless an environmentally sound final
disposal scheme previously exists or is implemented under the same subproject.
Similar safeguards are built into the agreed eligihility criteria for marketplaces
and slaughterhouses.   In the above sectors and for rlver wharves,  formal
environmental impact assessments (ElA) would be required for all subprojects.
Internal procedures  for environmental review,  clearance and supervision of
subprojects, based on a rating system and check-lists for each type of project, are
being developed and would be enacted through the Lending Operational Manual of
FINDETER, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. FINDETER would employ a permanent
environmental advisor reporting to its Credit Vice-President. Prior review of
EIA's by the Bank would be required for larger subprojects (US$3 million for
streets and US$1 million in other sectors). Subprojects presenting substantial
environmental issues would be subject to approval by the national environmental
agency INDERENA as required by Colombian law. The Manual would inter alia specify
that, should any subproject require displacement of households, FINDETER would
present a resettlement plan satisfactory to the Bank prior to such displacement.
4.46   Mostly through its experience in the sanitation sector, FFDU has developed
skills to environmentally appraise projects and to advise its borrowers on
mitigation measures. These skills have been transferred to FINDETER and would be
enhanced by training and methodology development activities under Component B.
An issue is the ability of FINDETER's borrowers, particularly in small townr., to
prepare EIA's.  In the past, FFDU frequently has had to carry out itself ZIA
activities which clearly should have boen a responsibility of its borrowers. The
outreach program under Component B would provide technical assistance to candldate
sub-borrowers for EIA's, and FINDETOR'i policies would be disseminated under the
same component.   Building up the vapacity and commitment of municipalities
countrywide to develop environmentally aeound projects is a long-term undertaking,
however, and in a first stage FINDE11If expects to dedicate substantial resources
to assist borrowers in this area.
4.47   The project  is meant to pa aWly  address  infrastructare  deficits  in
established settl,ments, and would not 4,zpport infrastructure development in areas
not previously urbanized. Negative environmental impacts would thus be minimal.
However, any public works activity m&y have adverse effects, due to improper
construction methods, quarrying for consrlv'ation materials or disposal of worksite
wastes.  To help winimize such effectU  IINDETER would include in its project
preparation guidelines a manual defining onvironmental precautions and mitigation
measures to be taken in subproject execution, including specific provisions to be
set out in civil works contracts.
M. Risks and Safeauarde
4.48   Improving local sarvices and municipal management nationwide is an ambitious
undertaking and will reqxire a sustained effort in the years ahead. The project
is complex and its executton involves a large number of agencies, many of which are
weak.  Risks include  ihe possibility of (a) insufficient project preparation
capacities at the local level resulting in slow impl emntation or low quality of
subprojects; (b) political pressures undermining the conditionality introduced in
FINDETER lendingu (c) the high turnover of municipal mayors and staff disrupting
the continuity of investment planning and institutional development at the local



- 24 -
level; (d) the cumberaome legal processes of procurement in Colombia resulting in
ilow implementation; and (e) a limited ability of regional support instltutions to
meet their responsibilities in the implementation of the Government's Municipal
Development Program.
4.49   The project includes measures to address these risks.  While the project
would help build up subproject preparation capabilities, the scale of the proposed
line of credit does not entail a subJtantial increase from the past disbursement
experience of FPDU. The subprojects already reviewed by the Bank have a total cost
in excess of US$20 million, sufficient to meet first-year disbursement targets.
To ensure adherence to on-lending conditionality, the Bank would review the larger
subprojects prior to approval by FINDETER, and all subprojects prior to approving
disbursements. An annual review of important project issues would lead to timely
plans of action to remedy identified shortcomings. Key project entities would be
strengthened as part of the project and committed to achieve monitorable targets.
Nevertheless, the magnitude and complexity of the sector make it likely that not
all of the project objectives will be met in a first operation. Even so, the
project would contribute significantly to the development of a more robust and
efficient municipal sector.
V. AGRBENENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1    During negotiations, the Government agreed that it would:
(a)   carry out by July 1, 1992 a study of the overall consistency and
targeting of its different programs supporting municipal investments
in the sectors financed by the Project, and adopt by October 31, 1992
and implement a plan of actions, acceptable to the Bank, to establish
improved coordination mechanisms as found necessary by the study
(para.2.9);
(b)   cause FINDETER to adhere to agreed credit policies and on-lending
terms as defined in Annex 5 (para.4.25);
(c)   cause DNP to carry out Component C in accordance with the agreed
action plan, annual implementation programs, and Operating Manual
(para 4.34)j
(d)   cause DNP to present to the Bank, each year by March 30, annual
reports on sector performance and on project progress, using agreed
indicators (para 4.35)t
(e)  cause DNP, FINDETER and IGAC to carry out with the Bank, each year by
November 15, an annual review of project progress, and to implement
to the satisfaction of the Bank the plans of remedial actions agreed
to during the reviews (para.4.37); and
(f)   cause project entLties to use standard bldding documents (para.4.40).
5.2   During negotiations,  FINDETRU agreed that it would:
(a)   lend only for projects meeting the eligibility criteria set forth in
the Credit Regulations statement (para.4.21)1



- 25 -
(b)   adhere to agreed credit policLes and on-londing terms an defined in
Annex 5 (para.4.25);
(c)   earn annual pre-tax returns on its equity that in real terms shall be
positlve for 1991, not lsee than 3% for 1992, and not les than 5%
from 1993 onward (para.4.25)g
(d)   adhere to agreed arrangements for the review of subprojects by the
Bank (para.4.29)i
(e)  exerclse its right to suspend diebureements to sub-borrowers not
complying with provisions of a subproject agreementr in a manner as
to achieve the objectives of the Project (para.4.30)1 and
(f) present to the Bank each year by March 30 a report on the progress of
Components A and 8 (para.4.35).
5.3    During negotiations, TA  agreed that it would:
(a)   execute Component D of the project ln accordance with agreed output
targets for mapping, cadastral registratLon and property asseement
updates (para.4.l1); and
(b)   design and implement by June 30, 1992 a system to better monitor and
control its unit costs by activity (para.4.11).
5.4   The following would be conditions of effectiLoness of the proposed Loan:
(a) adoption by FINDETUR of a Lending Operational Manual specifying
procedures, acceptable to the Bank, to ensure compliance with the
agreed Credit Regulations (para.4.21);
(b)   presentation by FINDUTER of model on-lending agreement. satisfactory
to the Bank (para.4.27)1
(c)   conclusLon by DNP, for the execution of Component C, of (i) an
administration contract satisfactory to the Bank with UNDP or another
qualified agent; and (ii) operational agreements with BSAP, S8UA, and
at least flve CORPES or Departments (para.4.33)g and
(d) conclusion of subsidiary agreements for the transfer of Loan proceeds
to FINDETER and IGAC.
5.5   With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would be suLtable for a Bank loan of US$60 million at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate, to be repaid over a perlod of 17 years including five years of
grace.



- 26 -                              Annex I
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MNICIPAL FINANCE v
1.     Colombian local governments have considerable revenue authority. Principal
own source revenues include taxes on property and on industry and commerce, car
registration fees, betterment levies, and user charges for services operated by the
local government. Tax regulations are set by central government, but rates for the
property tax are set by the municipal councils wlthin wlde brackets defined by Law
14 of 1983. Utility tariffs are established by the local governments though they
need approval by the National Tariff Board.
2.     There is substantial variation in fiscal effort between large, medium and
small municipalities. Most large cities make use of betterment levies and user
charges, and have been able to increase their own-source revenues over time in real
terms. Resource mobilization in the smallest municipalities, by contrast, has
consistently failed to keep pace with inflation. In the late 1960's the three
largest cities received one fourth of their revenues, and other municipalities, one
third of their revenues from local taxes. By the late 1970's, these taxes produced
less than 20% of local revenues in both groups. For smaller municipalities, non-
tax revenues also declined so that own source revenues reduced from two thirds to
less than half of total revenues - the difference being compensated for by
intergovernmental transfers and royalties.   In the same period, large cities
increased their income from non-tax sources such that own-source revenues increased
from 72% to 78% of their total revenues.
3.     Through the 1970's, overall municipal receipts including transfers grew at
a real annual rate of almost 10%, largely due to a real growth of over 12% in
transfer payments. Local expenditures grew at an even more rapid pace, however,
and the financing needs of the municipal sector increased over the period.
Law 14 of 1983
4.     These problems were addressed by a review in 1981 of inter-governmental
finance, which led in 1983 to several emergency decreo. and statutory reforms
designed to strengthen departmental and municipal revenues. Together with a reform
of departmental revenues, Law 14/83 introduced measures to improve the proceeds of
local taxes, including: (a) an across-the-board initial revaluation of the property
tax base in all cities to partially offset the effect of inflation incurred since
the latest cadastral assesoment; (b) the introduction of annual blanket adjustments
of assessed values based on a percentage of inflation; (c) the transfer to local
governments of the responsibility to set the rate of the property tax within a
legal bracket ranging from 4 to 12 mills of the assessed property value; (d)
changes of base and rates of the local tax on industry and commerce; and (e) the
introduction of a local annual license fee tax on cars.
5.     The measures were effective, at least initially, in that they increased the
elasticity of the property and business taxes. Medium-sized municipalities gained
most in terms of overall increased tax revenues. The impact was not sustained,
j/    see Report no. 7870-Co - "Colombia - Decentralizing revenues and the
provision of services" - October 1989.



- 27 -                              Annex I
however. Many local governments took no advantage of the new flexibillty to
establish their own property tax rates, and smaller municipalities continued to
have lower effective tax rates than the large clties. Collection ratlos of the
property tax remained low at 60% nationwide, with generally poorer performance in
the small jurisdictions. Difficulties were also encountered by local governments
with regard to the industry and commerce tax, reflecting thelr poor adminLitrative
capability (e.g. the lack of up-to-date taxpayer reglsters). The new vehicle tax
proved unproductive in the small cities which do not maintain vehicle registers or
traffic offices.
6.     As a result, own source revenues declined again in real terms in 1985 for
the small cities.   The four largest cities continued to dominate aggregate
municipal finance in Colombia, accounting at that time for almost 60% of all
municipal tax revenues. Less than one-third of aggregate local tax revenue was
collected in the municipalities of less than 100,000 people, which together account
for about 52% of the country's population.
Law 12 of 1986
7.     Against this background and concurrently with the process of decentralizing
the provision of local services, the Government enacted a second reform of
municipal finances. Law 12 of 1986 substantially Lncreased VAT transfers to the
smaller  local  governments.    The  additional  "special"  transfers  to  small
constituencies (those with less than 100,000 inhabitants) are designed to grow over
time. with the full effect of Law 12 being felt in 1992. At that date, the
transfers to small local governments will be more than doubled as a result of Law
12. and aggregate annual VAT transfers to local governments, net of retentions made
to regional education funds, will reach an estimated US$650 million.
8.     The formula used to allocate the "special" transfers includes an adjustment
factor designed to encourage fiscal effort. Unfortunately, this adjustment is
small, and only takes into account the local rate and collection performance of the
property tax as compared to national averages. It fails to encourage reassessments
of the tax base, and can actually discourage them as most local governments
implementing cadastral updates feel compelled to make their effect less brutal on
taxpayers by temporarily reducing the tax rates.   There is no incentive for
performance on the business tax or service tariffs, which may yield as much or more
than the property tax particularly in the bigger towns. Finally, the fiscal effort
adjustment applies only to the special transfers and does not affect the larger
cities.
Revenue Performance by group of Municipalities
9.     Starting in 1985. BCH/FFDU has established a data base including financial
data of about 750 of the 1009 municipalities of Colombia, covering about 62% of the
country's population. The lateet processed data available on appraisal are those
for 1988. Although the sample has changed over time, some trends can be discerned.
It should be noted that the data reflect initial budget appropriations rather than
actual end-year executions and therefore
10.    Investment Financing  Investment in 1988 ranged from US$7 per-capita for
small and medium municipalities to US$17 per-capita in the major cities. This is
a substantial increase from 1985 levels, not limited to the small municipalities
affected by the new transfers under Law 12. Between 1985 and 1988, investment went
up from 20% to 42% of budgeted expenditures in small municipalities, from 16% to
31% for intermediate cities and from less than 20% to a full 50% in large cities.
.   .               *        ,     *  I   *                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,



- 28 -                              Annex I
Borrowing by small municipalities was marginal in 1988 at 1.7% of budgeted
expenditures, less than estimated debt service costs. Medium-sized municipalities
made more use of credit which in 1988 represented about 10% of their budgeted
resources, up from 6% in 1985. Overall, however, only 56 municipalities in the
sample showed borrowing at more than 5% of budgeted resources. In major cities,
over half of all budgeted capital outlays were financed by borrowings.   Debt
service averaged less than 5% of expenditures for small municipalities and about
10% for medium and large municipalities, showing underexploited borrowing capacity
particularly in smaller municipalities.
11.    Administration.  The growth in the investment component in 1988 budgets in
the medium and large ..aunicipalities is reflected in relatively lower allocations
to administration - down from 67% to 58% in medium-sized municipalities and from
63% to 39% in large cities. In small cities, administration costs remain unchanged
at 54% of budgeted expenditures.
12.    Transfer.  VAT transfers represent two thirds of total revenues for small
municipalities (in about 270 of these it represents over 80%), while averaging only
32% of total revenues for medium and 17% for large cities.  At about US$10.5
equivalent per-capita in 1988, VAT transfers are about 70% higher for small than
for medium-sized municipalities and 150% higher than for the largest cities.
Considering that larger cities contribute more per capita to the sales tax, the
redistributional effect of the revenue-sharing system is substantial. and will be
more so in 1992 as Law 12 reaches its full effect.
13.    Own-Source Revenues Local resource mobilization in 1988 was lower than in
1985.  Local tax revenues per capita for 1988 averaged only US$2.70 in small
municipalities and generated only 15% of their total current revenues. Since the
large cities have a proportionally stronger economic base, their level of tax
effort in comparison to the intermediate cities appears below potential. Per-
capita property tax collections, in particular, can be upgraded in general, but
especially in the large cities. Medium-size cities seem to be more effective in
mobilizing local revenues from taxes. They do not perform as well on service
tariffs, which generate less than USS5 and US$9 per-capita respectively for
intermediate and large cities, a level unlikely to be sufficient to operate and
expand the services on a self-financing basis.
14.    As transfers increased, tax revenues in smaller municipalities have declined
in relative importance. Although the national average property tax rate increased
from 4.5 per mil of assessed value in 1985 to 5.1 in 1988, property tax revenues
have declined for all size categories as a proportion of total receipts.   In
addition, most local governments still lack complete business taxpayer registers,
and administration of the business tax remains weak at 5% (2-7%) of total current
revenues in small municipalities. It is also down from 20% to 18% in medium and
from 33% to 25% of total receipts in large cities.
Conclusions and Prosoects for Action
15.    The decentralization of revenues and responsibilities to local governments
seems to have removed some bottlenecks in the provision of basic infrastructure and
services, as evidenced by an increase of budget allocations to investments. It has
not fostered a greater fiscal responsibility at the local level. On the contrary,
the increase in transfers has been partially offset by a decrease in local resource
mobilization.



- 29 -                                  Annex 1
16.    To  depart  from  this  trend  which  could  undermine  the  viability  of
decentralization, the Government needs to create stronger incentives to improve
local resource mobilization, and to help local governmento strengthen their systems
of revenue administration,  collection and enforcement.   Changes in the legal
framework of inter-governmental revenue sharing would be desirable. Studies of
inter-governmental finance would be carried out under Component C of the proposed
project.   In addition, the project would (a) introduce lending conditionality
designed to encourage a greater fiscal and financial discipline of beneficiary
local governments; (b) support institutional development programs, aimed
preferentially at the small and medium-sized municipalities; and (c) support a
national program of cadastral registration and update of the property tax base.
TABLE 1
PER CAPITA MUNICIPAL EXPENDITURES AND RECEIPTS. 1988
(Source: BCH/FFDU)
Size of Municipality
(thousand inhabitants)             >500                 100-500            _c100
Per-Capita          Per-Capita           Per-Capita
ColS     S          ColS   USS           ColS   US$
EXPENDITURES
Operations                     4,076   13.6        4,069   13.6         2,827   9.4
Investment                     5,172   17.2        2,174   7.2          2,214   7.4
Debt Service                   1.097     3.7         725   2.4            1$6   0.5
Total Zxpenditures            10.345   34.5        6 .67   23.2         5.197   17.3
REVENUES
Taxes                          3,408   11.3        2,448   8.1            803   2.6
of which:
Property                 678   2.2           962   3.2            449   1.5
Business               2,469   8.2         1,248   4.2            271   0.9
Vehicles                 134   0.5           151   0.5             38   0.1
Bettezment               127   0.4            51   0.2             45   0.2
Other own revenues             2,692   9.0          1,331   4.4           730   2.4
Total own-source               6.100  20.3         3.779   12.6         1.533   5.1
Current transfers              1,497   5.0          2,239   7.5         3,408   11.4
of which:
Sales Tax              1,403   4.7         1,869   6.2          3,1S5   10.5
Departmental             94   0.3            140   0.5             87   0.29
Royalties                  -     -           230  0.80            166   0.6
TOTAL CURRENT RECEIPTS         7.597   25.3        6.018  20.0          4.941   16.4
Capital Transfers     -            -     3           0.0    29            0.1
Borrowing                      2,680   8.9           853   2.8            158   0.5
Other Capital Receipts            68   0.2            92   0.3             69   0.2
TOTAL CAPITAL RECEIPTS         2.748   9.2           948   3.2            256   0.9
TOTAL BUDGET                  10.345               6.967   23.2         5.197
L4..5  6                             .3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 30 -                             Annex 2
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SECTOR LENDING EXPERIENCE: FFDU
1.     FINDETER, the newly created apex agency responsible for the investment
component of the project, is being built upon the experience and capacities of the
former Urban Development Fund (FFDU), which for fifteen years has been the moat
active lender in the urban infrastructure sector. This Annex gives background
elements on FFDU and its lending experience.
2.     FFDU was originally created by Resolution 63 of 1968 as a line of credit of
the Central Bank. It was transferred in 1975 to the Central Mortgage Bank (BCH),
when Decree 533 authorized BCH to rediscount loans made by banks and local
financial corporations for urban development investments. FFDU provided credit to
local governments, departments, municipal enterprises and other subnational
government agencies.  FFDU did not have an independent legal personality, but
operated as a trust fund administered by a department of BCH, the Subgerencia de
Desarrollo Regional y Urbano (SDRU). It relied on BCH's administrative and legal
staff support, and on BCH's network of regional offices and local branches.
3.     The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has played a major role in the
development of FFDU's operating capacity and professional resources. IDB financed
two consecutive lines of credit for urban infrastructure, with loans of US$24 and
US$50 million respectively approved in 1980 and 1985. Both IDB loans were fully
committed by end 1989.  While the first project encountered substantial delays
while FFDU's operating capacity was being built up, the follow-up project was
disbursed on schedule and is considered by IDB as a success, largely credited to
the skills and dedication of the professional team handling FFDU. As a complement
to its infrastructure loans IDB supported substantial technical cooperation
activities to strengthen BCH/FFDU.
Financial Policies.
4.     FFDU together with intermediaries financed an average 70-80S of investment
costs. The percentage financed was higher for small communities, and in specific
cases (such as in troubled areas) was allowed to reach 1002 of project
expenditures. Local financial intermediaries carried the full default risk, made
minimal  through  the mechanism  of  revenue  pledging  (pignoracion).    These
intermediation and pledging arrangements have been effective and the system has
distinguished itself by the lack of defaults, arrears or reschedulings. FFDU's
performance in this matter contrasts sharply with the record of other government
funds, such as INSFOPAL in the water sector, which lent directly to subnational
borrowers and assumed the risk of default. The few cases of defaults in FFDU's
history occurred when it exceptionally channelled funds without intermediation.
5.     The number of intermediaries participating iA FFDU's  programs has increased
from only 4 in 1975 to 19 in 1989. In its 15 years of existence within BCH, FFDU
has rediscounted loans originated by a total of 40 financial institutions.
However, four large commercial banks of the public sector with extensive regional
branch networks accounted for about 501 of FFDU intermediation, while privately-
owned banks accounted for about 15X.



- 31 -                             Anne3 2
6.    PFDU's sources of funds have included external loans, fiduciary or trust
funds under special programs of the Government, and bonds issued by BCH including
(i) 3-year bonds issued to local govermuents at below-market interest rates but
conferring to the holders borrowing rights on FFDU at preferential ratest and (ii)
7-year bonds with an indexed capital and a 41 interest issuad to savings and loans
associations, who purchased them as a means of meeting their forced investment
quotas for housing and urban infrastructure.   Both these sources have been
discontinued in 1990 as being inconsistent with the more transparent financial
sector policies introduced by the Government. FFDU offered credit through several
windows with different lending conditions depending on (a) the size of the
beneficiary community, (b) the origin of FFDU's funds, and (c) whether the borrower
hold BCH urban development bonds. In aggregate, FFDU's lending rate was positive
in real terms and sufficient to recover the costs of resources and administration,
but was well below market.
Investment Trends.
7.     Lendint Volumes.  FFDU lending between its creation and 1982 remained flat
in real terms at about US$15-20 million per year in 1990 prices. The scale of
opers.tions increased sharply in 1982-83, partly as the first IDB sector loan came
on stream, and largely as the effect of a reflation program of the Government, the
Program of Economic Reactivation anad Employment Generation (REGE). Under this
program FFDU received large transfers which were lent at soft terms to the largest
cities with limited appraisal requirements. In 1984, new loan commitments were cut
back by more than half as the URGE program was discontinued. A second IDB loan and
a loan from the German Government (KPW) helped FFDU resume from 1985 a rapid real
growth (Table 1 below), with loan approvals higher than US$100 million in each of
1988 and 1989, and disbursements of over US$90 million in 1989.
8.     Retional Distribution (Table 2).  The Western and Central Andean regions
have dominated FFDU's portfolio. During 1981-85 three quarters of loan approvals
were for projects in these regions reflecting their greater capacity to prepare
acceptable investment proposals. Within the same regions, the Departments of
Valle, Cundinamarca and Antioquia have together accounted for over 50S of total
FFDU disbursements to 1988.   Recognizing this excessive concentration of its
lending in the most advanced areas of the country, FFDU has attempted to rebalance
its lending targets. New approvals of projects in the above regions have fallen
below 601 after 1985 as EPDU directed a promotion effort supported by UNDP
technical assistance programs in the least developed regions, and lending has now
taken place in all departments. Expanding operations to less developed regions has
not been easy, however.  Although per capita loan approvals for some smaller
departments such as Risaralda and Guajira in 85-89 have been among the highest of
all FPDU clients, considerable variations have been experienced in implementation
performance as evidenced by the ratio between approvals and disbursements. This
ratio has been well below average in less developed departments such as Meta (18S)
and Cesar (22Z), in sharp contrast with Antioquia (711) or Caldas (702).
9.     Sectoral Distribution (Table 2). The bulk of FFDU lending has been directed
at investment in water, sanitation and streets. In the early years of the Fund
water investment was marginal, as central government agencies such as INSFOPAL and
INS were in charge. After the central government disengaged from handling water
operatious, approvals in the sector increased to about 501 of MThU's total for
1985-88 compared to leos  than 101 during 1968-75.   Water sector lending has
accounted for three quarters of all lending in small towns. Transport investment
has continuously declined from over 501 of loan approvals during 1968-75 to about
25Z in the period since 1985.



- 32 -                             Annux 2
10.    Distribution by Cit Size (Table 2). Overall since 1975, FPDU'a mainstream
program (not counting the RE1E investments of 1983-84 directed at the five largest
cities) has been allocated relatively evenly between large cities (292),
intermediate urban centers (322) and small municipalities (392). This compares to
the population which, at the date of the latest census in 1985, was distributed 482
in large and intermediate cities and 522 in smaller towns (those with a population
of less than 100,000). The distribution of IIDU's lending has improved over time.
Support to small towns increased from 10 of loan approvals under PUP   s mainstream
program during 1968-75 to 452 of approvals during 1985-88.   Investment In
intermediate citios, while growing steadily in absolute real terms, was reduced
from 402 to less than 302 of approvals during the same period. Loan approvals to
the four largest cities also declined from 50S to about 302 of total approvals.
The distribution of disbursements has been more uneven, reflecting a more limited
implementation capacity in small towns. To 1988, only 33Z of the total amounts
disbursed by FFMU'  intermediaries vere directed at small municipalities, which are
responsible to provide local services to over half the country'a population.
TABLE 1
FPDU  DISBURSEMENTS  1975-89   \1
In current Col$          in constant US$ (1/91)
…---- (millions) ----        ----- (millions) -----
Year        Water &   Other   Total       Water &   Other   Total Z water
Sewer.   sectors             Sewer.   sectors
1975               4     267     271          0.2    13.9    14.1       2S
1976            208      160     368          8.6     6.6    15.2      572
1977            171      301     S72          5.5     9.6    15.2      362
1978             196     316     512          4.9     8.0    12.8      38Z
1979            273      382     655          5.4     7.6    13.0      412
1980            368      596     964          5.7     9.3    15.1      38Z
1981            492      855    1347          6.0    10.6    16.6      36Z
1982            622      940    1562          6.1     9.4    15.6      39Z
1983            956    5026    5982           8.2    42.8    51.0      162
1984           2417    6709    9126          17.4    48.4    65.8      262
1985           2815    2235    5050          16.4    13.0    29.5      562
1986           4544    2795    7339          21.9    13.6    35.5      622
1987           6839    6568   13407          26.6    25.7    52.3      512
1988           6272    9541   15813          19.1    28.9    48.0      402
1989          13316   24510   37826          32.5    59.9    92.4      352
Source: BCH                                 184.7   307.4   492.1      382
\1 Amounts disbursed to beneficiaries by FIDU's financial intermediaries,
excluding subborrower's counterpart of about 202 of investment costs.



- 33-                                        Annex 2
TABLE 2
FONDO FINANCIERO DE DESARROLLO URBANO
LOAN APPROVALS 1975-1988 1/
….--       -  - . -  -  -   - - -  - -   -  .  - - -   - - .  .  .  .  -  - .  .  . -   - -  -  . .  -  -
1975-1980    1981-1985    1986-1988       Total for Period 1975-88  dLebJ
Approvals    Approvals    Approvals        Approv.      Disburste.  appr.
Col$ m   2   Col$m   2   Col$ m   2        Col$ m  2    Col$ m   2  ratio
1/ BY TYPE OF PROJECT
Markets                         205   32      300   12    1048   22       1553   22       786   12  0.51
Water and Drainage             2580  402   13091  382   24524  47S    40194  432    24001  432  0.60
Roads and Associated Works   2643  41X   11189  332   12349  242    26181  282    14726  262  0.56
Solid Wastes Management          53   12    1923   62    5048  102        7024   82      4288   82  0.61
Slaughterhouses                  48   1X      240   12      583   12       871   12       329   12  0.38
Parks and Recreation            561   92      922   32    1978   42       3461   42      2419   42  0.70
Passenger Transit Terminals   254   42    1583   52         906   22      2743   32      2014   42  0.73
Integrated Public Services                    622   22    1954   42       2575   32      1077   22  0.42
Telephone Systema                            2005   62      965   22      2970   32      2512   52  0.85
Health Centers                                244   12      390   12       634   12             OX  0.00
Stabilization                                               152   02       152   02             OX  0.00
Schools                                       387   12      918   22      1306   12            O0  0.00
Institutional Development                                   301   12       301  O         33  O  0.11
other                           122   22    1595   S2       985   22      2702   32      3579   62  1.32
2/ BY CITY SIZE
Large Cities                   1926  302   20098  592   15162  29S    37186  402    25087  452  0.67
Intermediate Towns             2572  402    5642  172   16800  322    25014  272    12328  222  0.49
Small Municipalities           1968  302    8361  252   20139  392    30467  332    18349  332  0.60
3/ BY DEPARTHMENT
Antioquia                      1111  172    6255  182    3962   82    11328  122         8066  142  0.71
Atlantico                       131   22    2690   82    2300   42        5121   62      3479   62  0.68
Boyaca                           41   12      609   22      674   12      1324   12       890   22  0.67
Bolivar                         410   62      769   22    1422   32       2601   32      1785   32  0.69
Caldas                          422   72    1407   42    2239   42        4068   42      2844   52  0.70
Cauca                           136   22       93   02    1226   22       1455   22       793   12  0.55
Cesar                            70   12       30   02    1368   32       1468   22       325   12  0.22
Cordoba                         181   32      289   12      273   12       743   12       510   12  0.69
Cundinamarca                    590   92    5974  182    9478  182    16042  172    10402  192  0.65
Guajira                          46   12      940   32    2220   42       3206   32      1983   42  0.62
Huila                            44   12      694   22    2566   52       3304   42      2157   42  0.65
Magdalena                        49   12      298   12      702   12      1049   12       626   12  0.60
Meta                             99   22      290   12    1810   32       2199   22       404   12  0.18
Norte Santander                 162   32      429   12      907   22      1498   22       464   12  0.31
Quindio                          92   12      957   32    1303   32       2352   32      1591   32  0.68
Risaralda                       427   72    2244   72    3994   82        6665   72      3142   62  0.47
San Andreas                      50   12      240   12      174   02       464   12       338   12  0.73
Santander                       690  11     1163   32    4497   92       6350   72      3143   62  0.49
Tol3ima                         251   42      466   12    1390   32       2107   22      1194   22  0.57
Valle                          1357  212    7831  232    7356  142    16544  182    10130  182  0.61
Other  2/                       107   22      433   12    2239   42       2779   32      1493   32  0.54
TOTAL                        6466 1002   34101 1OO2   52101 1002    92667 1002    55764 1002  0.60
Constant 87 Col$ million  44283           68325        52792         165401          97354
Constant 87 USS million   177.1          273.3         211.2          661.6          389.4
I/ Through August 1988                                                                         SourcetPFDU
2/ Bogota District, Intendencias and Comisarias



- 34 -                              AhDeD    3
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART AND STAFFING OF FINDETER
ASSE14BLY OF SHAREHOLDERS _  xers Audit
r BOARD OF DIRECTORS       Nat.Lending Com.
PRESIDENCY
President
2 Advisors
5 Support staff
Internal
Control Office
3 professionals
1 support staff
Vice-Presidency     Vice-Presidency     Vice-Presidency        Office of
Development             Credit          Admin.& Finance       Secr.Gen.
Vice-President      Vice-President       Vice-President        ;acretary
3 div. chiefs        3 div. chiefs      2  div. chiefs        General
12 professionals     37 professionall    28 professionals/     3 p.,ress.
7 support staff          analysts           technicians       3 support
12 support staff    10 support staff
2 Tochnical   1 | 3 R.gional Div.     - Admin. Division
Devt.Division j [   ield offices
- personnel
Planning Div.                            - systems
- 8en.services
_IrAstitutional
0 Develop. Div.                         Finance Division
3 units:
- cash managt.
- accounts
- fin.planning
and control
source: FINDETER



- S5 -                              Annx 4
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOP=N=T OF PIMDETUR
1.     Component B of the project (Strengthening of FINDETER) supports a program
of actions to (a) help PINDETER build up its operating capacity and disseminate its
lending policies and guidelines among borrowers, regional support agencies and
consultants; and (b) provide outreach and technical assistance to candidate
subborrowers to develop and maintain a pipeline of subprojects conform to
FINDETER's eligibility criteria and qually requirements. The component is to be
financed by the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB).
2.     FINDETER's Develoyment Plan. FINDETER has prepared its overall program of
institutional development measures for five years.   The plan includes all
activities needed to develop its capacity, including eome not eligible for
financing by IDB such as the acquisition of office space to replace the existing
facilities rented from BCE. The total cost of the program is estimated at about
US$8.1 million (Table 1 below).
Table l. FINDETER's Institutional Develou_ent Plan
Activities                                             MSS thou_sands
Development of methodologies, manuals and procedures    450
Training of FIfDETER staff                                180
Training of borrowers, intermediaries, etc.               460
Dissemination of FINDETER's policies                      940
Information systems                                      440
Facilities and equipment                               2,740
Sector studies                                           890
Pipeline development and outreach                      2,000
Total                                                8.100
3.     Comuonent Deacriutigg. Within FIUDETER' o general institutional development
program, Component B would support the activities most critical to the project.
Specific activitlos supported by the component are:
(a)    training of FINDETER's staff for the evaluation and supervision of
municipal projects and institutionas The training will be directed at
about 50 professionals and analysts of FINDETER's Credit and Development
Vice-Presidencies. It will largely be performed in-house, partly by senior
staff of FiUDETER and partly by external lecturers contracted under the
project. Courses will address (i) financial and institutional analysis of
local governments and municipal enterprises; (ii) cost-benefit analysis of
subprojects; (iii) standard least cost designs for usual municipal
facilities; (iv) environmental assessment methods; (v) procurement; (vi)
FIUDETER's lending operations procedures and mnuals; and (vii) aector
lending policies and sector-specific issues of FINDUTER lending.
(b)    equipment for the eight regional offices of FINDETER;



- 36 -                              Annex 4
(c)    computer and office equipment and services to develop the information
systems of FINDETER, including (i) asset portfolio management; lii)
subproject portfolio progrese and compliance monitorings and (iii)
financial planning, budgeting and budget execution control;
(d)    in coordination with DNP, the development of an information system to
monitor municipal performance based on the existing municipal data base
maintained by BCH/FFDU, introducing new indicators of financial performance
(using actual budget executi-ns rather than appropriations as in the past),
service coverage, and institutional development. Activities to be financed
include services for software development and data collection;
(e)    studies for methodology development, including (i) sector work in new
seetore of FINDETER's lending, such as schools, health posts and
environmental protection; (ii) preparation of standard least-cost designs
and dimensioning parameters for selected municipal facilities in small
townes and (iii) development of a data base of cost-efficiency comparators,
by sector and region, for simplified appraisal of small investments.
Activities to be financed will include consultancy services.
(f)    training events and materials to disseminate FINDETER's project preparation
guidelines among borrowers, intermediaries, regional development agencies
(ODP, CORPES) and consultants.   Activities to be financed include (i)
consultancies to prepare guidelines documents and seminar handouts; (Ci)
printing of documents and training handouts and acquisition of training
aids; and C111) fees of external lecturers for the delivery of seminars.
Costs will be partly recovered from private consultants attending courses,
while the dissemination of FINDETER's policies will be free of charge for
local governments and regional support agencies.
Cg)    a technical assistance program to provide consultant services to candidate
subborrowers and regional support agencies for (i) investment plans and
identification of subprojects; (41) pre-feasibility studies; (iii)
coordination and quality control of project preparation activities
including feasibility studies and design work; (iv) financial and tariff
studies; (v) preparation of institution strengthening plans; and (vi)
environmental impact assessments of proposed subprojects.
4.     Cost and Financina.  The total cost of the component is estimated at US$4.0
million equivalent including price contingencies. TDB would finance 1001 of all
eligible expenditures under the component.
5.     Implementat on Siecif ice * FINDETER will implement the component through its
Development Vice-liasidency.  Each year by September 30 for the following year,
FIUDETER will present to IDB and IBRD a detailed program of activities for the
following year. While the annual programs will be in accordance with the overall
appraised 5-year institutional development plan of FINDETER, adjustments will take
place during execution, in response to new sector developments or to shortfalls in
FINDETER's capacity identified during the annual reviews of project progress.
Timely implementation of Component B is critical for the success of the project as
a whole. Therefore, and while IDB will lead component supervision, IBRD will be
given the opportunity to review and comment on key steps of component programming
and implementation, including the annual programs of activities, component progress
reports, and terms of reference of studies.



- 37 -                               Annex 5
COLOMBIA
MPNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINDETER'S LENDING TERMS AND POLICIES
1.     Bank support to a FINDETER line of credit is proposed in the understanding
that FINDETER's operations vill be in line with the policies recently adopted by
the Government to promote the development of a more transparent and competitive
financial system.   FINDETER's lending policies are set out by its Board of
Directors, under guidelines established by the Government's Monetary Board. The
Government and FINDETER have agreed at negotiations that for all its lending
operations, including those where it acts as administrator of third-party funds
(such as fiduciary arrangements), FINDETER will adhere to the following lending
terms and policies:
2.     Credit Risk and Intermediation. FINDETER will channel funds exclusively by
rediscounting loans originated by financial institutions which will assume the full
default risk. Eligible financial intermediaries will be those who (a) habitually
receive and lend or otherwise invest voluntary savings of the public; (b) are
supervised by, and in good standing with the Superintendency of Banks I and (c) have
been appraised by FINDETER as creditworthy, able to assess municipal credit risk,
and having appropriate financial controls.
3.     Rediscount Rate. FINDETER will maintain its rediscount rate not lower than
DTF+1.5%.
4.     Interest Rate Ceililng. The Government has specified that the interest rate
charged by FINDETER' a intermediaries will not exceed a ceiling established to
mitigate the effects of imperfect competition between banks. Within this ceiling,
the rate will be set competitively for each loan. The ceiling will be kept at a
level not lower than DTF+52, and sufficient to ensure an adequate participation of
intermediaries  in FINDETER'a operations.   The Government will monitor the
participation of intermediaries in FINDETER's operations, and will adjust the
ceiling through timely actions of its Monetary Board if such participation is found
to be constrained by the existing ceiling.
5.     At negotiations FINDETER has presented to the Bank a resolution of its Board
setting in accordance with the above conditions its initial lending terms including
rediscount rate, rediscount percentage, interest rate ceiling, commissions and
maturities. The current rediscount rate is DTF* 2.5X. These terms may be adjusted
in the future in response to changing conditions in the financial markuts, in
FINDETER's financial performance, or in the availability of intermediation. The
terms will be discussed in the project's annual reviews, and the Government will
cause FINDETER to carry out any adjustments agreed on during the Reviews.



- 38 -                              AnSz-A
S                               ~~~~~~~~~~COLOMBI
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FIEAICIAL ANALYSIS OP PINDETER
1.    Tables 1-3 show projected financial statements of FINDETER with the proposed
project for the period 1990-1995.   Table 4 shows key financial performance
indicators of FINDETER based on the projected statements.
A. Conclusions
2.     The projection  assumes  that  in addition to the proposed Municipal
Development Project FINDETER will replace BCE as borrower and executor of the Water
and Sanitation Sector Project (WSSP) supported by IBRD Loan 2961-CO. The lending
projection also leaves room for credit operations funded from FINDETER resources
other than the above two projects and equivalent to about 302 of total FINDETER
disbursements during 1991-94. Under these assumptions FINDETER's disbursements
would grow at an average annual rate of 5S, and its loan portfolio would grow at
about 112 per year in real torms. This level of activity would be sustained
without exceeding an asset to equity ratio of 4:1 for any year of the period. Cash
and liquid investment would be kept at about 10 of total assets ensuring
appropriate liquidity.
3.     Operating costs would on average represent over 11 of loan assets, a
relatively high level for a second-tier institution which reflects the demands of
appraising municipal projects and Institutions and providing project preparation
guidance to generally unsophisticated borrowers. First-tier intermediaries have
only an incentive to evaluate the borrowing and revenue-pledging capacity of local
governments, and are not ezpected to contribute much to project appraisal or
supervision.
4      FIUDETER will keep the large pre-ezisting portfolio of MFDU and related
liabilities, and its aggregate resource costs and margin. will only gradually inch
towards the levels resulting from its own financial policies.   FINDETER'.
profitability vill be negatively affected, in particular, by the existing portfolio
of loans based on indexed-capital bonds, as these low-cost bonds funded from forced
investments (discontinued in 1990) will mature earlier than the related low-yield
assets which will then have to be financed by imobiliuing FINDITER's funds in an
unprofitable manner. With an average financal  margin of about 112 of assets for
1)91-95, FINDETER Is expected to achieve roel pre-tax return on equity close to
52 In 1991 and higher than 8S from 1994.
5.    FINDETER will be lending long (at an average maturity of about 9 years) but
also borrowing long, both at variable rates. A substantial part of its lenditg
will be finaneed from equity. It will thus not be materially exposed to interest
rate risks. Credit risks are adequately addressed by the existing intermediation
and revenue pledging arrangements, as evidenced by the default-free history of
MDU's lending. Exchange rate risks related to real devaluations of the Colombian
Peso beyond inflation differentials do not present a aubstantial threat to
FIRDETER'a financial integrity, as most existing external loans proposed to be
transferred from PPDU (including IBRD Loan 2961-CO, but not IDS Loan 64318P-CO)
include a Government commitment to compeate BCHIMPDU against the effect of real
devaluations. Overall, FINDETER'. financial structure, policies and operating



- 39 -                               Anex 6
conditions allow for a solid financial institution, able to more than maintain the
real value of its capital while not presenting a high profitability due to a
conservative Searing policy, to the relatively high operating costs needed to
achieve its real sector objectives, and to a low-yield initial portfolio inherited
from FFDU.
B. Notes to the Proiections.
Base Year.
6.     FINDETER was created in May and started its lending operations in September
of 1990. Most PPDU operations were transferred to PINDETER in December 1990. The
statements for 1990 are built by consolidating the balances and operating results
of MFDU and FINDETER for that year.
Lendin_ and Borrowint Onerations.
7.     The borrowing and lending operations of FINDETER are broken down into five
elements: (a) the Water and Sanitation Sector Project (WSSP); (b) the proposed
Municipal Development project (MDP); (c) other existing external loans and related
on-lending portfolio4s (d) the existing or committed portfolio of VFDU's internal
lines of credit, and related liabilitiesg and (e) the new operations of FINDETUR
from internal sources since its creation.
8.     PIUDETER has received the portfolio of FMDU at end 1990 and related
liabilities. The "internal MFDU" operations consist of several fully committed
lines of credit includitg (a) the REGE employment generation program of 1983-85 and
other directed credit programs based on Government funds; (b) lines of credit
funded by internal bonds issued by BCE to local governments; and (c) a line of
loans of amounts indexed on the "Constant Purchasing Power Units" (UPAC), funded
by indexed bonds issued until 1989 by BCH to saving and loans associations as
forced investments. All these operations have a below-market costs of funds, and
lending rates in average 4S below the market 90-day deposit rate (DTF). As the
related liabilities are maturing faster than MPDU's loan portfolio transferred to
FINDETER, their overall effect is to reduce the profitability of FINDETER's funds
immobilized in this portfolio.
9.     The "other external" operations comprise the sub-loan portfolio and the debt
related to (a) a DM6.5 million loan from KfW, which was fully disbursed in 1987 and
has a 30-year maturity; and (b) the first IDB infrastructure line of credit (1DB
loans 643-SFICO and 397-SF/CO), for which US$24 million were lent to BCH with
disbursements completed in 1986. The second IDB urban infrastructure loan (IDB
loan 152-IC/CO) to the Central Bank is inciuded in PDU"s internal operations as
its proceeds are received by FINDETER in the form of a peso-denominated loan from
the Central Bank, which bears the exchange risk. The IDB loan is fully committed
and disbursements are expected to be completed in 1991.
10.   The WSSP (IBRD Loan 2961-CO) is assumed to be transferred from BCH to
FINDETER as borrower and executing agency. Bank and FIUDETER disbursements are
projected based on the revised lmplementation calendar considered for that project.
Under the U@l, funds from he proposed IDB and IBRD loans would be lent to the
Government and transferred to FINDETER as   equity as they are disbursed.
Disbursements are projected based on the performance targets for FINDETER defined
in Annex 15.



- 40 -                               Amex 6
11.    The "FINDETER internal" line includes the lending operations of FINDETER,
started in 1990, that are not part of either the NDP or WSSP and are not
transferred from  FFDU.   Related disbursements are expected to represent a
substantial proportion of FINDETER'. total lending in 1991 (before the MDP is
effective) and in 1995 (when the WSSP is fully committed). During 1992-1994 they
are projected to represent about 302 of FINDETER's total new lending.
12.    The lending and borrowing terms for the "FPDU" and "other external" lines,
and related items in the income statements, are based on the existing features of
these operations which are all based on existing contracts. Lending terms for the
WSSP, the NDP and the "FINDETER i-ternal" line are based on (a) external funds
received at 7.75X interest in dollarsl and (b) on-lending at DTF + 1.75Z.
Income Statement.
13.    Revenues include interest and other (fees and co missions) income on
FINDETER's loan portfolio at the terms described above; and interest on other
investment at a rate assumed to be DTF.  Financial expenditures include interest
on borrowings, and exchange loss. Exchange loss is entered net of the effect of
real devaluations of the Colombian peso against the US dollar, as the Government
is committed under the guarantee agreements of the existing IBRD, IDB and KFW loans
to compensate BCH against such effect. FINDETER's exchange loses is therefore based
on the inflation differential between the peso and the dollar.  Non-financial
expenditures include personnel and other (including depreciation, not a significant
item as FINDETER rents its offices and does not have substantial fixed assets).
FINDETER pays income tax at the standard 302 rato applicable to corporate income.
Sources and Uses.
14.    Sources of funds include income, exchange loss and Government contributions
for real devaluation of the peso, equity and other Government contributions, loan
repayment by borrowers, new borrowing, and changes in the balance of other assets
and liabilities (including depreciation).  Also included is the net effect of
partial interest capitalization on both assets and debt under the FMDU line of
indexed-capital loans based on UPAC bonds. Uses include lending, repayment of debt
(including realized exchange loss), and payment of tax on previous year income.
Balance.
15.    Assets include cash and investments, loan assets, interest receivable, and
other including fixed assets. Liabilities include debt, Government contributions,
other including interest payable and labor liabilities, and tax payable. Equity
includes the initial capital of FINDETER as paid in during 1990, plus the
additional equity contrib-itions resulting from the transfer of IDB and IBRD funds
under the MDP by the Gove ..ment, and reserves which receive net profits each year
as FINDETER is not authorized by law to pay dividends.



-41 -                                 An
Table 1
Projected Income & ExIenditure of FIUDETER
(n Billio0s of Current Colombian Pesos)
1990    1991    1992 1999
Interest on Lending            20.64    27.39    41.52    58.11    77.96   104.90
WSSP                         1.12     5.99    13.60    24.97    35.58    41.94
MDP                          0.00     0.99     3.72     8.10    14.43    22.86
other external               0.71     0.54     0.30     0.12     0.04     0.01
FFDU internal               17.16    14.52    15.09    13.30    11.28     9.71
FINDETER internal            1.65     5.35    8.81    11.62    16.62    30.37
Commissions/other lending inc.  0.65     0.90     1.40     1.80     2.40     3.10
Gross Lending Revenue          21.29    28.29    42.92    59.91    80.36   108.00
Interest on investment          7.43     9.00     3.21     4.30     8.60    16.49
GROSS FINANCIAL REVENUE      28.72    37.29    46.13    64.21    88.96   124.48
Interest ace. on borrowings    18.20    18.20   16.51    17.63    19.38   21.24
WSSP                         0.75     1.26     3.28     6.82    11.40    15.37
other external               0.42     0.49     0.58     0.67     0.77     0.86
FFDU internal               17.03    16.46    12.66    10.14     7.22     5.01
Exchange Losa, net              7.09     7.23    12.06    20.41    30.30    38.79
GROSS FINANCIAL EXPENDITURE  25.29   25.43    28.57    38.04    49.69    60.03
FINANCIAL INCOME              3.43    11.86    17.56    26.17   39.27   64.45
Operating expenditures          0.85    2.00      2.34     2.87     3.50     4.21
of which: personnel             0.50     1.28     1.59     1.95     2.39     2.91
other incl.deprec.    0.35     0.72     0.75     0.92     1.11     1.30
TOTAL EXPENDITURE            26.14   27.43   30.91    40.91    53.19    64.24
Income before tax               2.58     9.86    15.22   23.30    35.77   60.24
Income Tax                      0.77     2.96     4.57     6.99    10.73    18.07
NET INCOME                    1.81     6.90    10.65    16.31    25.04    42.17



- 42 -                               Amnex 6
Table 2
FINDETER -_Pro1ected Sources lad Uses of Funds
(in Billions of Current Colombian Pesos)
1990     1991     1992     1993      1994     1995
Income before tax                2.58     9.86    15.22    23.30    35.77    60.24
UPAC capitalization, net         2.06      0.65    -1.03    -0.76    -1.36    -2.04
Exch.lose (lmcl Govt.  lhare)    7.09      7.23    12.06    20.41    30.30    38.79
Gov't contrib to exch loss       2.,       1.16     2.19     3.69      5.35     3.83
Equity contrib.                 25.39     5.16      9.63    15.87    24.31    29.43
Govt.contrib. WSSP               6.97
Portfolio Amortization          10.50    13.66    16.19    20.96    26.62    33.27
WSSP                          0.00     0.79      1.31     3.26      7.45    12.85
kDP                           0.00     0.00      0.00     0.76      2.17     4.41
other external                0.86     0.81      0.69     0.42     0.15      0.07
FPDU internal                 9.65    12.07    12.94    13.69    12.75    10.59
FIUDETER internal             0.00     0.00      1.24     2.84     4.10      5.35
Borrovings, of which:           15.60    13.08    27.85    37.19    32.81    17.66
WSSP                          0.00    13.08    27.85    37.19    32.81    17.66
FFDU internal                15.60
Other net chge assetllab                -1.71    -2.41    -2.39    -2.80    -3.92
TOTAL SOURCES                 72.58    49.10    79.71   118.27   151.01   177.27
Debt Repayment                  10.50    28.45    10.89    18.31    14.07    30.43
WSSP                          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    16.98
other external                0.67     0.84      1.03     1.46     1.77      2.13
FFDU internal                 9.84    27.61      9.86    16.86    12.30    11.32
Lending Disbursements           37.96    47.46    61.80    79.81   102.27   130.98
WSSP                          9.74    16.35    34.82    46.49    41.02    22.08
MDP                           0.00     6.07    11.33    18.67    28.60    34.63
FFDU internal                18.27    12.29      4.30     1.85     2.35      2.68
FINDETER internal             9.95    12.75    11.35    12.80    30.30    71.60
Tax                                       0.77      2.96     4.57     6.99    10.73
TOTAL USES                    48.47    76.68    75.65   102.68   123.33   172.14
Change in cash & investment    24.11   -27.58       4.06    15.58    27.68      5.14



- 43 -                               Annex 6
Table 3
FINDETER - Proiected Assets and Liabilities
(in Billions of Current Colombian Pesos)
1990     1991     1992     1993      1994     1995
Cash & Investments              38.11    10.53    14.59    30.17    57.86    62.99
Receivables                      3.17     4.21      6.38     8.93    11.98    16.12
Loan Portfolio                  88.93   128.64   179.74   243.17   322.47   423.07
WSSP                         10.51    26.07    59.58   102.80   136.37   145.60
MDP                           0.00     6.07    17.40    35.31    61.73    91.94
othtu? external               2.14     1.33      0.64     0.23     0.07      0.00
internal                     66.33    72.46    69.31    62.06    55.33    50.30
new internal FDT              9.95    22.70    32.81    42.77    68.97   135.22
Other Assets                     0.29     0.96      0.95     0.95      0.96     1.01
TOTAL ASSETS                 130.50   144.34   201.66   283.22   393.27   503.19
Debt, of which:                 92.96    92.55   128.23   175.02   231.73   262.45
WSSP                          8.60    25.59    62.93   118.87   181.45   218.48
other external               17.35    20.99    24.73    28.62    32.75    36.89
internal                     67.02    45.97    40.57    27.53    17.53       7.07
Govt contrib, WSP                6.97     6.97      6.97     6.97      6.97     6.97
Other liabilities                2.65     2.65      2.40     2.57     2.82      3.09
Tax payable                      0.77     2.96      4.57     6.99    10.73    18.07
TOTAL LIABILITIES            103.35   105.13   142.16   191.55   252.25   290.57
Capital                         25.39    30.55    40.18    56.05    80.35   109.79
Reserves                         1.76     8.67    19.32    35.63    60.67   102.83
TOTAL EQUITY                  27.15    39.21    59.50    91.68   141.02   212.62
Equity and Liabilities         130.50   144.34   201.66   283.22   393.27   503.19
Table 4
FINDETER - Financial Indicators
1991     1992     1993     1994     1995
Disbursement growth, real                 0.0%      5.0X     5.02      5.0S     5.01
Admin. costs / avg assets                  1.41     1.2Z     1.01      0.91     0.81
Fin. margin I avg assets                  8.61    10.11    10.8S    11.61    14.41
Real return on equity                     4.71      6.8S     7.81      8.71    12.12
Assets I Equity                           3.68      3.39     3.09      2.79     2.37



- 44 -                               Anex-7
COLOM4Di
MNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRAINING AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1.     Background.  Decentralization poses a major challenge to the institutional
capacity of Colombia's 1,009 municipal governments. A review of human resources
at the Aunicipal level shows that most municipalities, and particularly those with
populations  of  less  than  100,000,  have weak  administrative  and  financial
capabilities.   While most mayors have responsively accepted the challenge of
decentralization, the offorts to improve local administration and services are
hindered by a dearth of appropriately qualifled staff at the local level and
insufficient access to technical assistance and training. Recognizing this as a
key issue for its decentralization policy, the Government has included in its
Municipal Development Program a major effort to improve the availability of
training and technical assistance to the municipalities of less than 100,000
inhabitants and to the regional agencies in charge of supporting local development.
This effort would be supported by Component C of the Project.
2.     Component Objectives are to: (a) improve the administrative capabilities of
municipal institutions, and strengthen their capability to plan, execute and
operate municipal infrastructure and services; (b) strengthen the capabilities of
Departmental Planning Offices (ODPs) and Regional Planning Councils (CORPES) to
provide support to local governments in the formulation of their investment plans
and institutional development programs; (c) strengthen the skills of municipal
personnel in the areas of revenue and expenditure management, and especially for
the administration of the property tax and the day-to-day maintenance of municipal
cadasters; (d) improve the responsiveness of training institutions to the needs of
local governments under decentralization; and (e) upgrade the capacity of Colombian
consultants to better meet the technical assistance needs of local governments.
3.     Component Description.   Component C of the project would support the
following activities:
(a)    strengthening of ESAP, SENA and selected regional training institutiona,
including (i) technical assistance and consultancy services for curriculum
and course development, (ii) production of course materials for the
training of trainers and of departmental and municipal staff;  (iii)
equipment, and (iv) training of about 100 trainers at the central level and
700 trainers in the regions;
(b)    strengthening the ODPs and CORPES in their capacity to advise local
governments, through (i) the training of about 200 ODP and CORPES staff;
(ii) technical assistance and consultancy services to ODPs, including
studies of institutional development needs in each region; and (iii)
equipment and micro-computer systems;
(c)    consultancy services in support of the preparation, led in each department
by the local ODP, of institutional assessments and outline strengthening
programs for local governments in about 685 municipalities of populations
less than 100,000, using simplified assessment methods and criteria
compatible with those used by FINDETER for the institutional appraisal of
its candidate subborrowers;



- 45 -                                Annox 7
(d)    delivery by ESAP, SERA and regional training institutions of training
courses to about 5,400 municipal managers and staff, under (i) a "core"
training program including courses on (1) planning; (2) project managements
(3) operation and maintenance of municipal services; (4) local government
organization; (5) financial management; (6) cadaster maintenance; (7)
administration of local taxes; and (8) community participation in local
administration; (ii) a program delivered by SENA to train civil work.
supervisors in small municipalities; (iii) a program on cadaster
maintenance and property tax administrations (iv) a program on the use of
computerized municipal management information systems (HIS); and (v) a
program to disseminate appropriate technologies for local infrastructure
and services among local government agencies.   For each program the
component would finance (1) fees of independent trainers contracted for
course delivery; (2) vehicles, equipment, training aids and (3) the
reproduction of course handouts and other didactic material.
(e)    component management and supporting activities by DNP including (i) studies
of decentralization issues including municipal finance, revenue sharing,
civil service career, expenditure management and subnational government
audits; (ii) the development of standard computerized municipal MIS
including accounts, budgets, inventory management, and tax administrationg
(iii) the development by DNP and FINDETER of a roster of national
consultants; (iv) technical assistance to DNP to establish monitoring
systems on municipal performance and on the effectiveness of training and
to implement an information system on technical assistance needs and
resources for the sector; and (v) technical assistance, equipment and
systems for DNP's project coordinating unit.
4.     guantitative targets for each year of implementation have been established
as to (a) the number of municipalities for which institutional assessments are
completed; and (b) the output of training programs, by type of recipient
institutions. These nationwide output targets, shown in Table 1, summarize more
detailed regional programs presented by DNP on appraisal.
Table 1
Quantitative Targets for Institutional Assessments and Trainina
Total    1991  1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
A. Institutional Assessments of          Number of Municipalities Assessed
Municipal Admiuistrations
685      20   100   200   200   165         -
B. Training targets, by type
of recipient institutions             Number of Personnel to be Tralned
(a) Trainers:
- National Level           100      50    50       -      -     -      -
- Departmental             700     175   175   175   175         -     -
(b) ODP/CORPE8 staff           200       50    50    50    50        -      -
(c) Municipal Staffs
- Core Trailnig Program  3,425     100   240   690  1,025  1,370        -
- Municipal MIS          1,000       -      -    200   300   300    200
- Cadaster Training       _.000    .     _      200   300   300   _200
TOTAL                    6.42       375 .    16315  1.850  I92L0  40.0



- 46 -                              AM.x 7
5.     DNP intends to complete the component in four years, and has set to itself
more demanding time targets than those of Table 1. However, Bank experience with
this type of projects points out to the possibility of delays.  The targets
proposed here allow for a more modest implementation pace over 5.5 yoars, and are
consistent with the appraised investment and disbursement schedules.
6.     Atency Responsibilitles.  DNP will lead the execution of Component C and
directly execute the sub-component of supporting activities and studies. SENA and
ESAP will be responsible for the training of their trainers, the preparation of
curricula and course materials for municipal training, and the delivery of training
to municipal personnel. In each region the local CORPES or ODP will execute the
training of their own staff and will program, coordinate and monitor the training
of municipal staff. ESAP, SENA and participating CORPUS and Departments (on behalf
of their ODPs) will enter with DNP into legal participation agreements. Prior to
negotiations DNP has presented a draft Operating Manual acceptable to the Bank,
setting forth the administrative rules to be adhered to by all participating
agencies, including procurement, book-keeping, monitoring and evaluation of
training,  and reporting.   Given the large number of small procurement and
disbursement actions entailed by component activities, DNP will contract the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) as procurement and administration agent for the
component.
7.    The Component would form part of the Institutional Development Plan included
in the Government's Municipal Development Program. Overall responsibility for
steering the implementation of the Plan lies with a National Institutional
Development Committee presided by DNP.  The Committee is composed of sector
agencies including ESAP, SENA, IGAC, the DRI Rural Development Fund, the
Information Technology Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic, the
Administrative Department of the Civil Service (DASC), and representatives of the
five CORPES. The Committee's Coordinating Unit is headed by the Division Chief for
Special Regional Programs in DNP. The Unit has been established and staffed with
three full time professionals.   Local coordinating units, led by the ODPs or
CORPES, are being put in place in the regions.
8.     Specific tasks of the national Coordinating Unit include: (a) planning of
annual work programs for training and technical assistance in conjunction with
ESAP, SENA, and participating regional institutions; (b) handling with the
assistance of UNDP of component administration activities including procurement,
disbursement and record keeping; (c) technical support and guidance to departmental
staff participating in component activities; (d) monitoring and evaluation of the
program; and (e) reporting to the Bank.
9.     Specific responsibilities of the departmental planning offices will be to:
(a) collect and prepare the regional data required by DNP in order to design the
annual work programs; (b) inform and advise the local governments of the department
on the training opportunities available to them under the component, and make
available to them the computerized MIS and traiuing material; (c) monitor and
report to DNP on the implementation progress and problems of the component in the
department.
10.    Proarazmin.  Institutional assessments of local administrations will be
carried out in about 70X of the municipalities of population lower than 100,000.
The assessments will include a census of staff and training needs, as the basis for
the detailed prograsming of training in each department, and the preparation of
outline institutional development plans. The assessments and the core training
program will be offered in about 5 of the 24 Colombian departments per year, with



- 47 -                               Annex 7
a pilot department started in 1991 and 2-3 departments treated in 1996. Inclusion
of departments will be conditional on their commltment to project objectives, and
readiness to undertake the necessary organizational and strengthening measures
required for participation under legal agreements with DNP acceptable to the Bank.
11.    Detailed annual implementation programs and budgets for each participating
agency, acceptable to the Bank, will be prepared by DNP and presented to the Bank
each year by September 30 for the following year. Each annual work program will
be presented with (i) an evaluation of the previous year's achievements; (ii) a
statement of specific targets to be achieved and a description of the activities
to be undertaken by each of the institutions involved; (iii) detailed budgets; and
(iv) procurement plans for purchase of goode and services including type of bidding
and timetables. The program would be discussed during the Annual Project Review
and a final program satisfactory to the Bank would be established at that time.
Eligible expenditures for the component will be only those pertaining to annual
implementation programs approved by the Bank. The presentation by DNP of a program
and budget of component activities for each participating agency for the first year
of the project, satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition for Board
presentation.
12.    Cost Recoverv.  To ensure the sustainability of the training network and a
genuine comiltment to the program from beneficiaries, the incremental operating
costs of the training events for municipal staff including (a) fees or wages, per
diem, and travel of trainers; (b) course handouts; and (c) rental of facilities
whero applicable, will be partly recovered from beneficiary local governments.
Each beneficiary entity will be responsible for the costs of attendance of its
staff including wages, travel and per diem.  The poorest local governments may
apply for financial assistance from their regional CORPES towards meeting their
training dues.
13.    Comvonent Costs and Investment Schedule are shown in Tables 2 and 3 below.
The cost of the component is estimated at US$10 million, of which the Bank would
finance 80X or US$8 million. The total budgetary cost of the Government's program
for municipal training and institutional development, which includes expenditures
not eligible for inclusion in the project (such as costs of attendance or
incremental operating costs of government agencies) is estimated at over US$20
million.
14.    Coordination with Other Bank-sunDorted Programs. Under the Rural Investment
Project in execution by Fondo DRI, IDB and IBRD are supporting training activities
for rural development in small municipalities. Coordination will be established
with DRI, whose manager sits in the National Committee in charge of steering
Component C. The Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI) has been supporting
municipal training seminars in Colombia. EDI would be associated in the Bank's
review of component progress, and may provide relevant training opportunities for
key sector and project personnel.
,, ,.   ,,   , |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ' 



- 48 -                                          nnax 7
Table 2
TraLninat and Institutional DeveloDment Conmonent
- Cost US$ million -      2 of
Task Description                Foreign   Local   Total    Cott
(A) Strengthening Training Entities   0.90    0.60    1.50         152
- services  \1                     0.50    0.50    1.00        102
- goods \2                         0.40    0.10    0.50        S5
(B) Strengthening ODPo and CORPES      0.64    1.36    2.00        202
- services                         0.40    1.20    1.60        162
- goods                            0.24    0.16    0.40         42
(C) Training Municipal Personnel        1.20    2.90    4.10       412
- services                         0.90    2.70    3.60        362
- goods                            0.30    0.20    0.50         5S
(D) Supporting Activities              0.61    0.49    1.10        112
- services                         0.45    0.45    0.90         92
- goods                            0.16    0.04    0.20         22
S/Total services                    2.25    4.85    7.10       712
S/Total goods                       1.10    0.50    1.60       162
TOTAL EUSE COSTS (June 90)         3.35    5.35    8.70        872
Price Contingencies                 0.50    0.80    1.30       132
TOTAL COST                         3.85    6.15   10.00       1002
2 foreign / local                     392     612
\1 Sncludes studies, tecbnical assistance, software development
services, and fees of independent trainers
\2 Includes vehicles, computer and office equipment, training
aids, software products, and printing of course materials.
Table 3
Cgononent C - Invegtment Schedule
Total     - Investment by Calendar Year -
Task Descrtiption                 Us$ m   1991*    '992    1993    1994    1995    1996
(A) Strengthening Training Entities   1.50   O01S    0.38    0.38    0.38    0.15    0.07
(B) Strengthening ODPs mad CORPUS       2.00    0.10    0.40    0.50    0.50    0.40    0.10
(C) Training Municipal Personnel        4.10    0.21    0.82    1.03    1.03    0.82    0.20
(D) Supporting Activities               1.10    0.22    0.28    0.28    0.17    0.11    0.06
TOTAL EASE COSTS                   a.70    0.68    1.87    2.18    2.07    1.46    0.43
Price Contingencies                 1.30    0.02    0.14    0.28    0.38    0.36    0.13
TOTAL COST                         10.00    0.69    2.01    2.45    2.44    1.84    0.57
2 for calendar year                            72      202     25Z     242      la2      62



- 49 -                           Annex-$
COLOMBI
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CADASTERS
1.    The Instituto Geografico Agustin Codazzi (IGAC) is responsible for updating
and maintaining cadastral information.  In the 80's IGAC has not been able to moet
its coverage targets as prescribed by Law 14183, mainly for lack of equipment and
trained personnel and because of budget shortages. One of the main purposas of the
proposed project is to strengthen municipal finance, which in turn requires a more
buoyant property tax and timely updates in the tax base. The Project includes a
cadaster component aimed at boosting I6AC's capacity so that it can update the
country's cadastral information base by the end of 1995 and maintain it current
thereafter.
2.     The property tax is the most important own source of revenue for local
governments in Colombia, particularly in small jurisdictions, and hae a high
revenue generating potential in most municipalities. At present this potential is
not being realized in the great majority of municipalities. The rapid urbanization
process during the past two decades has outpaced the ability of responsible
agencies to incorporate new properties into the local tax registers. The inability
to keep property values current has reduced the relative importance of the property
tax as a source of municipal revenues. In 1988, property taxes financed only about
122 of local government expenditures compared to over 262 in 1973. The measures
introduced by Law 14 of 1983 to arrest the decline of the property tax (see Annex
1) had only a temporary effect. Annual across-the-board revaluations of property
values have been made, but at rates lower than the CPI inflation and much lower
than the growth of property values in large cities.  The revaluations missed
property development and improvements made on previously registered parcels.
3.     Cadaster updates by IGAC, where performed, had a more substantial and
lasting effect. Per-capita property tax revenues in municipalities with updated
cadasters are over 601 higher than in those with cadasters not updated since 1983.
In addition to their immediate effect on the property tax, cadaster updates are
essential to facilitate (a) the implementation of betterment charges, which are
levied based on cadastral information; (b) property transactions and the use of
property as collateral for credit, which has been difficult in unregistered low-
income areas; and (c) better urban and utility planning.
The Executing AAtenv (IGACl
4.     IGAC is a central government agency affiliated to the Ministry of Finance.
Its Board of Directors comprises representants of the Ministries of Finance and
Public Credit, Defense, Agriculture, and the Presidency of the Republic. The
organization, led by a Director General appointed by Colombia's President, is
structured into directorates fort (a) cartography; (b) soils analysis (used for
valuation in rural cadasters); (c) the National Cadaster Office (NCO); (d) mapping;
(a) planning and systems; (f) education and research; and (g) administration and
finance. IGAC has a staff of about 2,300 of which 1,300 are involved in cadaster
activities.  Management has been stable and professional, and IGAC's work is
generally highly regarded. The methods and procedures used for obtaining end
recording cadastral information are sound and equitable, though legal requirments
impose a somewhat excessive level of detail in field surveys. The Institution's



- 50 -                            Annex 8
main asset is a core group of competent staff which has been trained under an
extensive training program financed by the Dutch Government.  The major obstacles
precluding a better performance by IGAC in the past have been unet. le and
generally insufficient budgetary resources, and shortage of appropriate equipment.
5.     IGAC is responsible for cadasters throughout the country with the exception
of the cities of Bogota and Cali and the department of Antioquia. Of the 1,009
municipalities in Colombia, 870 fall under the jurisdiction of IGAC for property
ragistration and valuation. At present these municipalities have about 5.2 million
parcels (2.9 million urban and 2.3 million rural) out of the 7.5 million parcels
nationwide. By 1995, the number of parcels under the jurisdiction of IGAC is
projected to grow to about 5.7 million. IGAC's legal responsibility is to assess
all parcels on a 7-year cycle. During 1984-1988 IGAC completed the registration
of only 1.7 million parcels, less than half the number needed to meet its
commitments. In 1989 the Institute's budgetary allocation was boosted, enabling
it to contract sufficient field staff to update or renew 1.1 million parcels. With
sustained Government support, IGAC has processed about 800,000 parcels in 1990.
However, this pace was achieved by concentrating on regions for which aerial photos
and maps were readily available, and will not be sustained unless IGAC addresses
equipment bottlenecks for mapping and contracts out substantial parts of its work.
6.     IGAC is required by law to carry out its cadaster work without charge to
local governments. It is entitled to receive 0.1 X of VAT collections, but this
does not make up for the cost of its cadaster activities.  In addition, IGAC
receives a small income from the sale of maps. It has also become common practice
that local governments offer to share the cost of the cadaster work in order to
gain priority attention. In spite of these revenues, IGAC remains dependent on
contributions from the national budget for more than 90Z of its operating costs.
Issues aUd Actlons.
7.     A better performance of IGAC in the effective preparation and maintenance
of cadaster information and in making this information available to local
governments is hindered by technical bottlenecks, mainly arising from the
obsolescence and lack of equipment for renewal and maintenance of cadaster records,
cartography, aerial photography, photogrammetry, geodetic surveys, and transport
and communications. A detailed dir ussion of IGAC's equipment needs was carried
out during project preparation and led to agreement on a specific list of essential
equipment to be acquired or upgraded, as described in the project file.
8.     In addition to resource constraints, the main issues affecting IGAC ares
(a)    lack of coordination between IGAC and the Public Registers of Deeds (in
charge of recording changes in ownership of property), which does not allow
for the timely and accurate updating of cadaster information;
(b)    need for increased municipal participation in the day-to-day maintenance of
cadastral information. While the de'entralization of cadastral services is
desirable in principle, local governments have failed to offer a valid
substitute for the centralized operation of IGAC.  This is ascribed to
their reluctance to assume the political cost associated with property tax
hikes, and to their vulnerability to preesure from individual landowners or
interest groups. IGAC has proved to be more immmne to such pressures and
thus more capable to independently carry out property reaasessments;



- 51 -                           Annex 8
(c)    private sector participation in cadaster formation work should be extended
to enhance IGAC's throughput.
9.     IGAC's capacity is inadequate to meet the targets set for 1995. To increase
this capacity to a sufficient level it will be necessary to: (a) introduce
appropriate equipment accompanied by technical assistance and training for the
efficient use of such equipment; (b) acquire equipment for logistic support such
as vehicles, and communication and office equipment; (c) contract out survey and
computer data entry work, either from firms or from contracted individuals paid on
the basis of output; (d) provide IGAC with an assured flow of resources from the
national budget and beneficiary local governments; and (e) improve coordination
between IGAC and the Public Registers of Deeds.
10.    To translate IGAC's efforts into an actual improvement of municipal
finances, local governments mAet undertake programs to strengthen their capability
for cadaster maintenance between updates and for the billing and collection of the
tax. To this end, IGAC will prepare training modules and provide trainers under
Component C of the project. Moreover, the lending conditionality of FINDETER under
Component A includes requirements of property tax collection performance.
The Cadaster Component.
11.    Objectives.  The purpose of Component D of the Project is to provide local
governments with adequate and up-to-date cadaster information. This information
is necessary for allowing local administrations to carry out tasks such as utility
planning and operation, and for the assessment of property taxes and betterment
levies. Specific objectives are to: (a) strengthen IGAC's operating capacity; and
(b) complete cadaster registration nationwide by 1995 and start timely cycles of
assessment updates.
12.    Description.  The components would support the following activities:
(A)    Cadastral Registers. including the formation of about 1.5 million parcels
and the update of about 2.8 million parcels by the end of 1995 with respect
to property owuership, description and value. Specific items eligible for
financing ares (a) the contracting of about 1,040 person years of
professional, technical and administrative personnel for field survey and
information processing needed for the formation and update of cadastral
registers; and (b) the acquisition of equipment, including: (i) office
equipment; (ii) field surveying equipment; (iii) vehicles; (iv) micro
computers, peripherals, and software; and
(B)    Cadastral Maing, including the production and/or update of cadastral maps
covering the entire country in different scales by the end of 1995,
including parcel boundaries, important topographic objects and cadastral
identifiers.   Specific expenditures eligible for financing unier the
project ares (a) aerial photography services provided by prIvate
contractors; (b) the overhaul of two planes owned by IGLC for aerial
photography; and (c) the acquisition of new and upgrading of existin!w
equipment  for:  (i)  photo  laboratory;  (ii) ground  control and  land
surveying; (iii) soils laboratory; (iv) computer-based mapping, including
hardware and software;
(C)    Technical Assistance to support the activities of IGAC's units involved in
the implementation of the cadaster component and provide training to IGAC's
personnel.



- 52 -                            Annex 8
13.   Coat Estimate. The total cost of the cadaster component including physical
and price contingencies, but excluding customs duties on equipment and taxes on
foreign consultancies, is estimated at about US$ 16.0 million (Table 2) with a
foreign exchange element of 75X. The same percentage would be financed from the
proposed Loan. Table 3 shows projected annual investments under the project. The
overall cadastral development program of the Government, including projects
financed by the Swiss and Dutch governments and expenditures not eligible for
project financing (such as incremental operating costs of IGAC or customs duties
on equipment) is estimated at about US$45 million in five years.
14.    Swiss and Dutch Proiects.  Under a separate project, the Swiss Government
has agreed to finance cartographic equipment, information technology, equipment-
related training and technical assistance for IGAC, and contracts for maintenance
services.   While a formal co-financing was not found practical, the Swiss
Government and the Bank have closely cooperated in the appraisal of their
respective projects ensuring complementarity of objectives and of the activities
and expenditures financed. The Dutch Government supports an extensive ongoing
training program including in-house courses and scholarships abroad for technical
staff, professionals and managers of IGAC.
Implementation S2ecifics
15.    The activities supported by the component represent an integral part of
IGAC's mainstreasm programs and, as such, would be implemented directly by the
responsible  directorates  under  the  guidance  of  the  Planning  and  Systems
Directorate. The National Cadaster Office (NCO) with its regional offices will
carry out the cadaster register component. The Cartography Directorate will be
responsible for land surveying, aerial photography, photogrammetry and mapping
activities. With the financial resources provided under the project, present IGAC
staif has the technical competence, experience and motivation to carry out the
project with minimal technical assistance additional to the on-going programs
supported by the Swiss and Dutch governments.  IGAC intends to complete the
implementation of the component in four years and to purchase most of the equipment
by end 1992. However, Bank experience points out to the possibility of delays.
The investment schedule (Table 3) allows for an Implementation period of 5.5 years.
16.    Outout Targets and Monitornag Intldicators.  Annual output targets with the
project have been agreed with IGAC for each major cadaster-related activity
including aerial photo coverage, mapping, property registration and update, and
soils classification for rural cadasters. The targets are shown in Table 1.
Table 1 - IGAC's Outout Taraets
Calendar Year          1991 * 1992  1993  19_4  1299  1996
A) CADASTER REGISTERS
- Formation (1,000 parcels)  238  794  397
- Update                                 481  934  962  453
B) CARTOGRAPET
- Aerll Photo.  (1,000 ha)  1084 15980  5688
- Restitution     6           58  290  145
- Mapping (1,000 units of 105000)  101  674  337
C) SOIL CLASS7IIC&ZI01
- Area Surveyed (1,000 ha)  1810 14340  7596
* assuming that the proposed Loan becames affective in October 1991



- 53 -                           Anmnx 8
17.    Priorities for Cadaester Renewal and Uodate.   In the renewal of their
cadesters, municipalities would be given priority based on two criteria. First,
priority would be given to local governments who have submitted requests for credit
from FINDETER and whose eligibility for such credit depends on increased revenues
from property tax. Second would be the willingness of the local government to
share the cost of the cadaster work. Using these two criteria, IGAC, PIIDETER and
DNP would collectively establish an order of priority and determine the
municipalities to be incorporated in IGAC's annual work plan.
18.    IGAC's Productivitv. At present, IGAC does not have appropriate systems to
keep track in sufficient detail of its unit costs for cadaster and mapping
activities. One of the objectives of the modernization of IGAC's technologies and
procedures is to reduce the unit cost of its activities. IG&C will complete by
June 1992 a study to (a) define and implement procedures and systems to better
monitor unit costs for cadaster renewal and update and for mappings (b) determine
present unit cost levelas and (c) identify measures to reduce such unlit costs.
19.    Cost Recovery  Under present laws IGAC cannot charge local governments for
services provided. Given the high return which local goverments can realize from
having complete and up-to-date cadasters, they should more than in the past pay at
least some of the costs incurred by IGAC, thus demonstrating a genuine Interest In
having their cadaster current. The willingness of a municipality to share the cost
will therefore be a key determinant for establishing priority of IGAC's work.
Under a resolution of January 1990 IGAC also ha introduced charges to all
beneficiary local governments for the costs of printing cadastral documents.
20.    Coordination between Cadaster and Public Register. To lmprove the flow of
information on the ownership of parcels between public registers and the cadaster,
IGAC and the Ministry of Justice have formed a permanent bi-agency committee to
review operational issues and bottlenecks, streamline procedures, and to meet as
needed to resolve coordination problems.



- 54 -                                    Annex 8
Table 2. Cadaster Component - Cost Estimate
-Costs in US$ million-      S of
Sub-Components                 Foreign   Local   Total   Total
(A) CADASTRAL REGISTERS              3.14    2.61    5.75       36Z
1) Field Survey Contracts                 1.80    1.80       11S
2) Equipments                     3.14    0.81    3.95       252
-Office                        0.19    0.06    0.25        22
-Field                         0.10            0.10        1S
-Vehicles                      2.25    0.75    3.00       192
-Computers                     0.60            0.60        42
(3) CADASTRAL MAPPING                6.23    0.60    6.83       432
1) Overhaul Airplanes              0.75    0.25    1.00        62
2) Aerial Photography              2.80             2.80      17X
3) Equipment:                      2.68    0.35    3.03       192
-Photo Lab                      0.10            0.10        12
-soil survey                    0.60            0.60        42
-Ground Control                 0.93            0.93
-Vehicles                       1.05    0.35    1.40        92
(C) TECD.UASSISTANCE I TRAINING      1.43    0.47    1.90       122
_-.:--..... ___ -- .. ---  -----.. . . _
TOTAL "SE COSTS                     10.79    3.69   14.48       902
Price Contingencies                  1.13    0.39    1.52       102
TOTAL COSTS                         11.93    4.07   16.00      1002
2 foreign / local                      75Z      252    1002
Table 3. Cadaster Component - Investment Schedule
Total      -- Investments per Calender Year ---
Sub-Components                   Us$ m    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
(A) CADASTRAL REGISTERS              5.75    0.97    1.94    1.94    0.36    0.36    0.18
1) lield Survey Contracts         1.80    0.18    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.18
2) Equipment                      3.95    0.79    1.58    1.58
(B) CADSTRAL MAPPING                 6.83    0.89    2.55    2.83    0.56
1) Overhaul Airplanes            1.00            0.50    0.50
2) Aerial Photograpby            2.80    0.28    0.84    1.12    0.56
3) Equipment                     3.03    0.61    1.21    1.21
(C) TECUNICAL ASSISTANCE             1.90    0.19    0.57    0.57    0.57
TOTAL amSE COS                      14.48    2.05    5.06    5.34    1.49    0.36    0.18
Price Contingencies                  1.52    0.05    0.38    0.68    0.27    0.09    0.05
.....   .....   ----_   -----... -----   ----- ...... .. ..... .. --.--
TOTAL COST                          16.00    2.10    5.44    6.02    1.76    0.45    0.23
2 per year                            1OO2     132      342     382     112       32      1S



-55-                              Anex 9
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR INVESTMENT SUBPROJECTS
1.     Under Component A of the Project, FINDETER will only finance subprojects
meeting eligibility criteria agreed on appraiseal, specified in a Credit Regulations
Statement (Reglamento de Credito) formally adopted by FINDETER before Board
presentation. This Annex summarizes the criteria and conditions established in the
Credit Regulations.
A. Oualifyina Sectors. Ex2enditures and Borrowers.
2.     Qualifvina sectors include (a) urban streets and traffic management; (b)
solid waste collection and disposal; (c) upgrading of low-income neighborhoods; (d)
rehabilitation, improvement and equipment of existing primary health care
facilities; (e) marketplaces; (f) slaughterhouses; (g) bus terminals; (h) local
river wharves; (i) parks and recreational facilities; and (j) local telephone
networks. Non-infrastructural investment will also be supported to improve the
administrative, O&M, and financial capabilities of eligible entities, either in the
form of agency strengthening components of infrastructure subprojects, or through
self-standing institutional development subprojects. Cadaster subprojects would
be eligible in the regions and cities not covered by IGAC.   In all sectors,
eligible investments will be only those under the legal responsibility of
municipalities.
3.     The Government has expressed interest in adding to the above list, during
project execution, new sectors of investments which are under municipal
responsibility. Such sectors would include: (a) construction of new health posts;
(b) primary and secondary schools; (c) environmental protection; (d) infrastructure
for low-cost housing; and (e) municipal highways (other than those already
supported by the Bank under a Rural Road Project).  These are new areas of
municipal responsibility, for which FFDU did not lend in the past and for which the
Government has not yet completed the formulation of development objectives and of
specific onlending policies. While tentative criteria were discussed, it would be
premature to start PINDETER lending in these sectors before a policy framework for
such lending is more clearly established. Therefore, each of these sectors may
qualify for investment lending under the project only after: (i) the Government
presents a policy letter, acceptable to IDB and IBRD, defining the framework of
FINDETER lending in the sector; and (ii) FINDETER adopts a supplementary Credit
Regulations statement, acceptable to the Bank, setting forth specific investment
selection criteria and subproject appraisal methods for the sector.
4.     Qualifving Subborrowers include municipal governments, municipal enterprises
and agencies, and metropolitan area councils. In addition, the Departments and
their agencies and enterprises are eligible subborrowers for package sub-loans
supporting regional programs of municipal investments.
5.     Elizible exgenditures. The expenditures eligible for financina from subloan
funds are those incurred under eligible contracts for goods, works or services
pertaining to subprojects selected and implemented in accordance to all provisions
of the Credit Regulations.   Incremental operating costs,  interests  during
construction, land, working capital, force account works by the beneficiary entity



- 56 -                            AnnxI 9
or machinery acquired for such works, or the costs of supervision when carried out
by the project entities themselves,  cannot be financed.   The expenditures
qualifying as subborrower' counteriart and counted towards the minimum counterpart
requirements are the same as above, plus taxes and land acquisition required for
the project.   In addition, labor provided by beneficiaries under community
participation schemes in rural areas or for slum upgrading will be counted as
counterpart, in an amount not higher than the costs which would have been incurred
for the same activities if contracted out, as reasonably estimated by FIUDETER.
6.    Minimal Euiltv Contributions.  For each subproject, subborrowers will be
required to provide eligible equity contributions of at least 30S of subproject
costs for subprojects in larger municipalities, and at least 201 in smaller
municipalities.   "Smaller" is defined here as (a) for subprojects approved by
FINDETER before October 1, 1993, the municipalities of population below 100,000;
and (b) for subprojects approved from October 1993, below 50,000.
B   Criteria of Eliaibilitv of Subyroiect Entities.
7.     Eligible Suboroiect Entities.  Qualifying beneficiary entities are local
governments and their semi-autonomous agencies or service companies, including
private companies  operating services under municipal  license.   Before any
investment lending is considered, FINDETER will carry out an assessment of the
overall administrative and financial performance of the candidate beneficiary
agency. If the beneficiary agency is an autonomous revenue-earning municipal
enterprise, the agency itself will be assessed and submitted to eligibility
requirements. If the beneficiary agency is a non revenue-generating dependency of
the municipal administration, the assessment and relevant eligibility criteria will
apply to the municipal administration as a whole. To be eligible, the agency must
(a) present sufficient technical,  administrative, and financial capacity to
satisfactorily discharge its obligations in the implementation of the project and
for the operation, maintenance and administration of the facilities to be created
under the subproject; and (b) meet minimal levels of overall financial and fiscal
performance, as defined below.
8.     Two thresholds for each indicator of financial and fiscal performance will
apply.  Below a minimal elisibilitv level, candidate subproject entities will
receive investment subprojects only if (i) they commit themselves to a specific
plan of measures sufficient to achieve at least the eligibility level; and (ii)
they take all the legal, pricing and contractual actions in the plan before any
bidding takes place for physical investments. Entities who meet the eligibility
level but fail to achieve a target level will have access to infrastructure
subproj acts only if they undertake covenanted plans of actions, with agreed targets
for each subproject, to achieve this target level in a reasonable time frame. The
levels are defined differently for municipal administrations and for revenue-
earning municipal enterprises, as follows.
9.     The eligibility  level for a municipal administration is defined as
compliance with each of the following criteria: the local government should (a)
present its accounts and budgets in accordance with generally accepted formats, and
have adequate record-keeping practices and financial controls; (b) have current
expenditures not higher than SO of revenues; (c) have debt service chargeo, actual
and projected with the project, covered at least 1.3 times by revenues net of
current expenditures; and (d) bill the property tax at a rate within the legal band
and collect up-front more than 50 of its property tax billings. The target level
is defined as (i) current expenditures not higher than 602 of revenuess (i) debt
service coverage ratio higher than 1.5; and (iii) collection ratio of 802 for the



- 57 -                            Amex 9
property tax. At end 1990 roughly one third of the municipAlities in Colombia are
below the eligibility threshold, one third between the eligibility and target
threshold, and one third above the target threshol4L
10.    The eligibility level for municipal enterprises is met when they (a) present
a clear organization and assignation of functions, with separate responsibilities
and accounts for each important service; (b) present their financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted formats, and have adequate record-keeping
practices; (c) have their current expenditures not higher than 0.90 of revenues;
(d) have a debt service coverage ratio, current and jrojected with the project, of
at least 1.3; and (e) collect more than 70S of its service billings. The target
level is (i) current expenditures not higher than 0.70 of revenues; (ii) debt
service covered 1.5 times; and (iii) tariff collection ratio not lower than 0.90.
I,
11.    In addition, subproject beneficiary entities will be required, before any
further lending, to be in compliance with their commitments under covenants of
anterior FINDETER loans.
C. General Subproject Eligibilitv Criteria
12.    The following criteria will apply to all sectorss
(a)    investments should meet a prudently assessed demand, reflect a priority of
the community, and contribute to national objectives including poverty
alleviation;
(b)    projects should meet applicable technical, sanitary and environmental
standards and regulations, and be least-cost on a lifetime basis;
4
(c)    economic feasibility (IERR > 12Z) should be aemonstrated for investments
generating quantifiable benefits, and assessed using cost-efficiency
comparators in other sectors;
(d)    borrowers should demonstrate their existing financial,  technical and
administrative capability to operate and maintain the proposed facilities,
or take specific covenanted steps to acquire this capability;
(e)    borrowers should present adequate arrangements to implement the project,
ensure the quality of its execution and control its costs.   Designs,
project management and supervision of works should be contracted to
qualified consultants when the beneficiary agency does not have sufficient
capabilities in these areas;
(f)    the financial feasibility of proposed investments should be substantiated,
and cost recovery provided for investments in revenue-generating sectors.
Minimal cost recovery requirements are specified for each of these sectors.
If tariff adjustments are needed to meet these requirements, they will be
made as a condition for disbursements.
(g)    the environmental impact of proposed investments should be assessed, and
minimized through covenanted mitigation measures if negative;
(h)    private sector participation alternatives should be considered, especially
in revenue generating sectors (solid waste, slauthterhouses, large markets,
bus terminals, telephone) or for activities that can be subcontracted;



-58-                                   Annex 
D. Multi-Community Subl2ans.
13.     To reach smaller caomunities efficiently FINDETER will continue FFDU's
practice of supporting "package" subloans to departmental or regional agencies.
Such subloans support each a number of small investments, generally in scattered
communities  in the beneficiary  region.   Each of  these  investments,  and each
beneficiary agency, vill have to meet the same requirements as would apply for a
self-standing subproject, These requirements will be enacted through sponsoring
agreements between the regional agency and each local beneficiary. In analyzing
a package subloan, PINDETER will (i) appraise the capacity of the regional agency
to lead its implementation; and (ii) appraise individual investments equivalent to
at least 30Z of the total package. The subloan agreement will define conditions
for the remaining investments to be financed, and for further municipalities to
receive funds from the subloan. FINDETER will supervise compliance with these
conditions and will deny financing to individual investments found not to comply
with the applicable criteria of eligibility of subprojects or beneficiary agencies.
E. Sector-specific criteria and reauirements
14.     The Credit Regulations of PINDETER define for each eligible sector of
investments specific requirements and criteria including (a) eligible investments;
(b) institutional, technical, environmental and economic criteria pertaining to the
sector; (c) minimal levels of direct cost recovery specific to each revenue-
generating sector;  and (d) standard covenants and up-front requirements.   Key
criteria and requirements for each sector are summarized in Appendix 1 below.
APPENDIX 1
SECTOR-SPECIFIC ELIGIBILITY CRITER
A. Urban Streets.
15.     The sector is divided for subproject evaluation purposes in two subsectors, for which different
requirements apply: (1) traffic solutions, aiming to improve transport conditions in a large part of
the city; and (2) local streets, aiming to improve the level of equipment of a specific neighborhood.
Qualifying investments in sub-sector (1) include (i) construction, extension, rehabilitation of
arterial urban roads; (ii) improvement of intersections, traffic signs and signals, marking, and other
traffic engineering; (iii) construction, Improvement and rehabilitation of storm-water drainage works
to preserve road structures; (iv) pavement and Improvement of secondary roads providing access to low-
income areas; and (v) segregated bueways and other solutions to improve public bus transport.
Qualifying investments of type (2) include the construction, improvement or rehabilitation of low-cost
local neighborhood streets. Also eligible would be activities to (i) strengthen road maintenance
programuing and management; (11) design and implement transport systems management schemes; and (1li)
strengthen the institutions in charge of Implementing betterment levies.
16.     All type (1) urban streets subprojects must (a) be submitted to a formal cost-benefit analysis
based on vehicle operating costs (VOC) and travel time savings, using standard values of unit VOC and
time benefits published by FINDETER and acceptable to IDB and IBRD; and (b) form part of an area-wide
integrated traffic management plan.  For type (2) subprojects, cost-benefit calculations will be
performed for investments valued at above US$300,000 based on land value benefits. Smaller local
street subprojects will be checked against standard parameters of costs per beneficiary household.
17.     The organization and funding of street maintenance would be a key parameter in PlNDETER's
appraisal of the viability of subprojects in this sector. FIDETER would review the past maintenance
performance of the candidate subproject entities, and would require specific covenanted actions to
improve this performance as needed. Beneficiary local governments would be comuitted to give priority
to the adequate funding of maintenance in case of budget constraints. Adherence to this commitment
would condition further lending by FINDETER to the same beneficiary.
18.     Subproject entities must have the legal and administrative capacity to Implement betterment
levies If such levies are required for the subproject. If needed, legislation to establish betterment
levies must be approved by the municipal council prior to bidding. Partial recovery of investment
costs from beneficiaries will be required for investment in new streets or street paving. Sub-loan
conditionality will be based on minimal percentage levels of cost recovery, related to city size and



- 59 -                                    A=yx 2
beneficiary income group  as how  In Table 1.  Apprval of bettermna  charge scheduls sufficient to
meat these minim will b requierd as a condition for PINDETER's first disbureement.
TAXlF I - Urban streals
z                           Slalsgl~~~~miim  Cost E2roemrv frout Betterment Charates
Benefci ry            ----------Clty size (000) -------
Road type            goups 1/             100    50-100     20-50        (20
Arterials                  1-2             -         -          -         -
3-4            502       302        -         -
5-6            80x       601        .         -
Local Strets               1-2            302       202        -          -
3-4            751       60S       401        _
5-6           lOOS      1OO2      1001        -
1/   strata 1 (lowast) to 6 are Income-related groups used by the
government for public tariff purposes. Strata 1-2 and lover 3
represent the poverty group.
P. Solid Waste.
19.   Qualifying lnvestments are those to improve or expand the service of collection, transport,
transfer, storage and final disposal of solid aste and to strengthen operating agencies. Maintenance
faclities for vehicles would not be financed unless there is demonstrably no valid alternative of
contracting out uch malatenance. Sector-specific eligibility criteria include (a) the environmental
soundness of the existing or proposd disposal scheme; (b) a demonstrable capacity of the operating
entity to officlently deliver an approprtate level of service; and (c) complitace with norms of cost-
recovery through user charges. FINDETER will not approve a subproject, even if the loan request
relates only to the collection component of the solid waste system, unless the existing final disposal
sceme is onvironmentally sound, or La made to be so under the subproject.
20.   For subprojects in cities smaller than 100,000 inhabitants and of amounts smaller than
US$200,000, subproject incremental costs icluding recurrent will be chocked against standard
parameters of cost-efficlency.   For projects in larger cities, economic feasibility will be
demonstrated by the user's wiligness to pay service charges reflecting service costs. User charges
will be set at a level at least sifficlent to meet, for the overall operation of the solid waste
agency, the minlmal cost recovery levels shown in Table 2. If a tariff adjustment ia needed to moot
the cost recovery requirements of Table 2, then the borrower ill supply, as a condition for
disbursements, the resolution of the National Tariff Board (JNT) making this tariff adjustment
effective.
Table 2
Solid Waste - Minimal levels of cost recovery from user charges
--------------------City size (,000)-----------------
)100                   35-100                   035
0 & M Costs               1001                     1001                 1002
Capital Coats              90S                      601                  102
C. Area Uatrading.
21.   Area upgrading subprojects are community-based, Integrated operations targeted at Improving
living conditions In existing low-income settlemnts.  Each subproject licludes a amx of lnvestment
components in several sectors of basic Infrastructure. Qualifying investments under the project are
those to create, expand or rehabilitate basic Infrastructure In eligible settloemnts; and to strengthen
subproject entities and promote community participation. Investments may include facilitles i asectors
not eligible for self-standing subprojects under this loan, including water and sewerage or power
distribution. However, water and sewerage investments will be limited to 502 of the total costs of any
subproject, and energy distribution to 252.
22.   Area upgrading projects must (a) be targeted at low-income settlements, as defined in a manner
acceptable to I4B and IBRD In FINDBTERs Operational Manual; (b) involve an organized representation
of the beneficiary community; (c) present a clear Implementation mechanism and assignation of
responsibilities, particularly with respect to Inter-agency coordination; (d) include a land titling
or legalization schoe  If lmad tenure is not legal at the date of subproject appraisal; and (e) form
part of a feasible plan of action to address all subnormal settlements In the beneficiary city over a
reasonable time span, demonstrating that the level of subsidy considered in the project s sustainable
citywlde. Formal cost-benefit evaluations, based on incremental land value, will be required for



- 60 -                                    Annex 9
larger subprojects. htailer projects will be chockad againt standard parameters of cost-efficiency
to be establlsehd for each type of lnvestments. Each sectoral investment component of a alum upgrading
project will be rquired to meet the eligibility criteria which would apply If the investment wa a
self-tanding eubproject, including cost recovery.
D. Marketnlaese.
23.   Qualifying lvestments include the improvement, rehabilitation or creation of marketplaces,
Including (a) retail marketplacee, and (b) wholesale markets for lrger citile. PFD EUR wil ensure
that subprojects, (1) maot applicable sanitary and environmental standards, particularly with respect
to the disposal of organic solid waste and sewages ad (ii) provide for a sound operating entity, which
in all cases would maintain separate accounts. Urban wholesale markete will be operated by autonomous
operating companies with substantial private sector participation. Cost-efficiency will be checked
agaist standard parameters, based on present levels of activity. For wholesale markets, project
fealbilty woula be demonstrated using the financial IRR as a proxy of the ERR. All subprojects would
provide for full recovery of OlE costs, including water and power utility costs based on metering,
through direct user charges. Urban wholesale markets would fully recover their 06 and investment
costs.
B. Slauahterhouses.
24. Qualifying inveotments include the rehabilitation, oxpansion or construction of public
el ughterhouses. All subprojects must meet legal sanitary norms and be environmentally sound. If the
ewisting scheme for dsposal of wastes and ewage is not appropriate, then an acceptable scheme wlll
have to be impleeted as a component of the subproject. Appropriate arrangements must be provided for
independent sanitary inspoction of the facility.  For large slaughterhouses Cl1O0 cattleIday), a
financially autonomous operating entity will be required, with private sector participation required.
In all case  separate accounts will be kept for the revenue and expenditures of the slaughterhouse.
Prnjects for new facilities will use standard least cost design norms published as annexes to
FINDETER's Manual for the sector. The creation of new facilities will be financed only when more
efficient than transpcrting cattle to an existing facilty. Cost-efficiency will be checked agaismt
standard parameters, based on present levels of activity. For large slaughterhouses (type 1-II in
table 3) project feasibility would be demonstrated using the fiancial IRR as a prozy of the ERR.
Minimal requirements of cost recovery through user charges would be as shown in Table 3.
Table 3
SlauQhterhouees - minital levels of cost recoverv from user charnes
Type of Slaughterhouse 1/                I-II                 III                   IV
no cattleiday                            )100              30-100                  <30
Operation and Maintenance                1002                1002                  lOOS
Investment                               1002                 SO5                    -
1; as legally deflned by the nWistry of Health.
F. Bu Terminals
25. Qualifying investments are those to improve, rehabllitate or create urban terminals of intercity
bus transport. Two types of terminals are considered: (1) complete terminals for large cities, with
more than 50 bus trips per day baving their origin in the terminal; and (2) terminals for medium-sized
cities or transit terminls, with minimal off-street infrastructure (platforms and shelter) and
generally no specific peranent staff.
26.   Eligibility criteria for both types of terminals include (a) acceptation by transport operators;
(b) use of standard dimensioning norms; and (e) integration with traffic management plans for the area.
Additional requirements for large (type (1)) terminals will include an autonomous operating company
with private sector participation to be considered. Type (2) subprojects will be checked against
standard cost-efficiency parameters. Type (1) subprojects will require cost-benefit analysis based
on vehicle and passenger savings In the area of the terminal and the arterial network. Alternative
locations will be compared during early project design using simplified cost-benefit comparisons. For
type (2), It is not considered to levy direct user charges as this would require inefficiently
employing permanent staff on the site. For type (1), full recovery of O&H and Investment through user
charges and sales of comercial floor space wiLl be required.
G. River Wharves.
27. Municipal river ports are legaLly defined as small facilities not under responslbillty of the
national Navigation Division (NND) of MOPT. They generally consist of a minimal infrastructure (wharf)
which does not warrant the employment of permanent staff and for which no direct user charges are
levied.  Complex river ports, for which specific managerial and tariff conditionality would be
required, are not municipal presently and will not be eligible under this project. As vaterways are
I         *',I WI lI



-61 -Aex
national property, all subprojects will need clearance from IND. Subprojects must be (a) restricted
to legally municipal vorks and cleared with NND as not interfering with national waterway operations
or programs; (b) environmentally sound as demonstrated by a formal environmental assessment to be
supplied by the borrover; (c) consistent with the urban development/transport plan of the municipality.
Economic assessment will be based on standard cost-efficiency parameters.
H. Urban Parke and Recreation Facilities
28.   Qualifying Investments are those to improve, rehabilitate, create or expand urban parks and basic
recreational facilities for daily community use, preferentially in low-income neighborhoods.  The
following eligibility criteria applyt (a) subprojects should address basic commuity needs for
recreation and area improvement, prudently assessed and 'ithin the framework of feasible Integrated
improvement programs for the beneficiary neighborhood and city; (b) the facilities should be targeted
at and designed for everyday use by community residents, excluding facilities planned for exceptional
competitive eventst (c) designs should meet applicable standards of engineering, safety, health and
environmental preservation; (d) the borrower should demonstrate ownership of the lnd and the
feasibility of securing utility connections as needed; (e) subprojects should meet standard cost-
efficiency conditions (expressed as costs per beneficiary population) set forth in the sectoral mnual
of FINDETER; and (f) subproject entities should demonstrate sufficient iastitutional capacity and
financial resources to adequately operate and maintain the facilities.
I. Local Telenhone Networks.
29.   Qualifying investments liclude the improvement, rehabilitation or expansion of local telephone
networks operated by financially autonomous local telephone companies whether owned by the municiplo,
mixed-capital, or privately owned and operating under a municipal license. Intercity networks (under
national responsibility) or switching facilities (for which suppliers credit is generally available)
will not be financed. However, the overall Investment plan of the company will be analyzed an must
be satisfactory to FINDETER.  The following eligibility criteria applys (a) subprojects, and the
overall expansion plans of the company, must be based on actual registered applications for new
connections rather than on theoretical service coverage targets; (b) operating companies must be fully
independent in their management, finance, and risk, and not rely on any form of subsidy from the local
government or other public-sector sponsors, and any municipal involvement In project financing will be
In the form of loans at market conditions; (c) full recovery of OLW and lnvestment costs wil be
required will be required, with connection fees and service charges establshetd up-front at levels
sufficient to meet this requirement. Financial IRR before tax higher than the discount rate wvll be
used as presumption of economic feslbiity.  Private sector alternatives will be considered for all
projects.
J. Institutional Develooment Suboroiects.
30.   Qualifying investments include equipment, computer systems and software, tralning, conoultancy
services, technical assistance, and services such as taxpayer census or cadastral surveys to improve
the administration, mmaagement systems, investment planning, human resources and revenue generation
capacity of mnmicipal governments, municipal enterprises, and regional or departmeatal entities
responsible to provide advice and support to municipal governments. Cadastral updates and property
surveys would qualify for component A funds in the area not under the jurisdiction of IGAC.
Qualifying training services would be those required by the specific situation of the municipalty and
not available to it under the training component of the Project.
31.   In appralsing proposals of institutional development subprojects, FINDMTER woulA easure that:
(a) proposals are based on a thorough Institutional assessment of the entity and adequately address its
major identified deficiencies; (b) the entity is committed to listitutional adjustment, and Is actually
taking any substantial actions that can proceed before the proposed investments are carried outg (c)
the implementation schedule is realistic and monitorable, and the proposed new systems are appropriate
to the scale of operations and technical level of the entity; and (d) the proposal is cost-effective,
and the proposed measures are expected to generate incremental revenue or savings higher than their
licremental costs.
K. Health Posts
32.   Qualifying lavestments Include the rehabilitation, improvement, expansion and equipment for
existing primary health care facilities. Projects should be least-cost, and satisfactory arrangements
(including the creation of municipal health funds and a proven disponibility of medical personnvel)
should be in place to guarantee the appropriate operation and maintenance of the facilities.
33.   During project execution, the Government and PIUDETER would propose for Bank review and approval
a pollcy framework and eligibility criteria to be used for the construction of new health posts, not
Included Initially In the project.



- 62 -                              Ann^x 1Q
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONDITIONS TO BE INCLUDED IN SUSPROJECT AGREEMENTS
Subproject agreements between FINDETER and project executing agencies should
contain inter-alia:
(a)    project description, including institutional strengthening component and
environmental mitigatien measurest
(b)    administrative, operational and financial monitoring indicator.l
(c)    financial viability clauses for revenue gonerating projects, and financial
covenants;
(d)    debt limitation clause;
'e)    maintain satisfactory project records;
(f)    adequate insurance coverage;
(g)    procurement arrangements with limit on number of contracts and the use of
standard procurement documents;
(h)    disbursement arrangements;
i)    audit requirements;
Cj)    reporting under formats specified by FINDETER;
(k)    supervision of construction;
(1)    satisfactory management clause;
(m)    use of qualified consultant.;
(n)    authorization of access to works, offices and records by FINDETER and Bank
personnel;
(o)    right of FINDETER to suspend disburements and, in the extrome case,
cancellation of subloan in case of non-compliance by sub-borrower; and
(p)    subproject specific clauses, including prior conditions for FINDETWR's
disbursements.



- 63 -                              Annel. 11
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTATION FOR BANK REVIEW OF SUBPROJECTS
1.     This annex sums up the contents of the documents to be provided to the Bank
by FINDETER (a) prior to subloan approval by FINDETER, for subprojects above the
thresholds of prior review by the Bank; and (b) prior to Bank disbursements against
the subproject, for all subprojects.
Review of SubDroiects by the Bank prior to Approval by FINDETER
2.     For each subproject requiring prior review by the Bank, FINDETER will
provide to the Bank, before approving the subloan, (a) a draft of the proposed on-
lending legal documents, and (b) a project evaluation report with the content
summarized below. Back-up information, more detailed reports, feasibility studies
and designs will be kept by FINDETER and made available to the Bank upon request.
3.     SnAgle Prolect  Subloans   For a  single-community  subproJect with  a
municipality or municipal enterprise as executing agency, the evaluation report
will contains (a) description of project executing agencyl (b) description of pre-
project service conditions and problems; (c) project objectivet; (d) population and
demand projections; (e) project beneficiariess (f) project description, including
a brief discussion of alternatives evaluated and presentation of least-cost
solution; (g) project cost estimate with appropriate contingencies; (h) project
implementation and procurement schedule; (i) project financing plan; (j) management
and revenue performance indicators of executing agency; (k) description of agreed
actions to improve administrative/ revenue performance of executing ent;tty; (1)
financial analysis and projections in form of summary financial stateme-tst (m)
tariff  analysis  for revenue-generating  sectors;  (a) economic  analysis  and
justification; (o) environmental Impact asseesment and mitigation measures; (p)
procurement arrangements and plan; (q) arrangements for supervision of
construction; (r) accounting arrangements; (s) disbursement arrangements; (t) in
case of co-financing, evidence that co-financing required ls assured; (u) if tariff
measures are needed to meet the minimal cost recovery levels required for the
sector, evidence that such measures have been Implemented; and (v) specific
covenants and conditions to be included in on-lending documents.
4.     Multl-groject subloan.  For a multi-coumunity program with a departmental
or regional entity as executing agency the evaluation report should contains
A. Program  information,  includings  (a)  description  of  lead  agency,
institutional setting and arrangements with member communities; (b)
institutional assessment and plan of action for improvements; (c) pre-
project service conditions and problems in member communities; (d) project
objectives;   (e)  population  and  demand  projections;   (f)  project
beneficiaries;   (g)   project   description,   including   institutional
strengthening program and scope of technical assistance, studies or
training; (h) project implementation and procurement schedule; ti) project
cost estimate and financing plan; (j) tariff or other cost-recovery
analysis;  (k)  financial  analysis  and  projections;  (1)  monitoring
indicators; Cm) procurement arrangements; (n) auditing arrangements; Co)
disbursement   arrangements;   (p)   arrangements   for   supervision  of



- 64 -                              Annex 11
construction;  and (q) evidence that co-financing is secured, if shown
necessary in financing plant and (r) proposed covenants and conditions for
the subloan, and conditions applicable to all subprojects beneficiary
entities; and
B. Individual 2roiect Profiles and dAta sheets, including: (a) description of
project,  service  conditions,  and  beneficiary  entity  I  (b)  demand
projections; (c) description, cost and implementation schedule; (d)
financing plan; (e) institutional development and revenue generation
measures specific to the beneficiary entity; (f) economic/ social
justification; (g) monitoring in!dicators; (h) environmental impact and
mitigation measurest and (i) the conditions and covenants required for the
specific subproject and agency. Such profiles for investments representing
30% of the program to be financed should be available initially. Profiles
for the remaining investments would be prepared and submitted later on
during project execution.
S.     For all subloans FINDETER will also present draft on'ending documents,
inclting  (i)  rediscounting  agreements  between  FINDETER  and  financial
intermediaries; (ii) subloan agreements between financial intermediaries and sub-
borrowers; (iii) project agreements between FINDETER and sub-borrowers; (iv) for
multi-project sub-loans or when the sub-borrower is distinct from the beneflciary
agency, sample implementation agreements between sub-borrower and beneficiary
agencies; and (v) if the financing plan includes contributions by third parties
sponsoring agreements between them and the sub-borrower.
LReview before Bank Disbursements
6.     For all subproject including those below the thresholds of prior Bank
review, and before applying for related Bank disbursements, FINDETER will provide
to the Bank (a) approved on-lending documents (as in para.5 above); and (b)
subproject summaries condensing in 3-5 pages the essential information included in
FINDETER' s evaluation report. Agreed formats of project summaries will be included
in FINDETER's operating manuals.
7.     Each subproject sumary will include the basic information needed by the
Bank to review the subproject and assess its compliance with the agreed elisibility
criteria, including: (a) cost table in Col$ and US$, financing plan, investment
schedule, and procurement plan; (b) brief description of the borrower and
beneficiary entity, with an assessment of its performance and compliance with
eligibility criteria; (c) brief description of the project, including beneficiary
community, demand, solution adopted and key dimension parameters; (d) summary of
economic, financial and environmental assessment; (e) key implementation specifics,
issues, risks and actions; and (f) subloan conditionality.



- 65 -                               Annex 12
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT INMESTMENT SCHEDULE
Inveetments per calendar year
--------------- (Us$ million)--------------
COMPONENT                    Total    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
A - Investment                158.2    15.8    23.7    31.6    39.6    39.6        7.9
B - Instit.Dev. FINDETER        4.0     0.8      0.8     1.0      0.8     0.4      0.2
C - Training                   10.0     0.7      2.0     2.5      2.4     1.8      0.6
D - Cadaster                   16.0     2.1      5.4     6.0      1.8     0.4      0.2
TOTAL                       188.2    19.4    32.0    41.1    44.6    42.2         8.9
Z of Total                    100I      10S     17S     22Z      24Z     221       5Z



- 66 -                             An=ex 13
G LO-IA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AULLCATION 01 LOAN PROCEEDS
1.    The proposed disbursement categories, the allecation of Loan funds and the
disburse_mnt percentages are as followst
Amount of
Loan Allocation            2 Expenditures
Cateaorv                  (Dollar Equivalent)          to be financed
(1) Goodt, works and services       40,000,000          852 of the amounts
under Component A of the                            disbursed by JINDETER
of the Project.                                     under participating
subloanR
(2) Goods and services under         8,000,000          80S
Component C of the Project.
(3) Goods and services under        12,000,000          752
Component D of the Project.
TOTAL                           60.000.000
Note: Component B of the Project would be financed by IDB and would not involve
IBRD disbursements.



- 67 -                              Annex 14
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Bank Fiscal Year           Quarterly       Cumulative Disbursements
and quarter ending        Disbursements
US$ million    US$ million      2 of Total
FY 92
31-Dec-91                      1.4             1.4                2Z
31-Mar-92                      1.6             3.0                52
30-Jun-92                      2.6             5.6                9Z
FY 93
30-Sep-92                      2.7             8.3               142
31-Dec-92                      2.7            11.0               18X
31-Mar-93                      2.7            13.7               232
30-Jun-93                      2.7            16.4               27Z
7Y 94
30-Sep-93                      3.6            20.0               332
31-Dec-93                      3.6            23.5               39S
31-Mar-94                      3.6            27.1               452
30-Jun-94                      3.6            30.7               512
FY 95
30-Sep-94                      3.5            34.2               57I
31-Dec-94                      3.5            37.7               63Z
31-Mar-95                      3.5            41.2               69S
30-Jun-95                      3.5            44.7               752
FY 96
30-Sep-95                      3.0            47.8               802
31-Dec-95                      3.0            50.8               85X
31-Mar-96                      3.0            53.9               902
30-Jun-96                      3.0            56.9               952
FY 97
30-Sep-96                      1.5            58.5               972
31-Dec-96                      1.5            60.0              1002



- 68 -                                 Annex 15
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
1/ Monitoring Indicators for FINDETER
(Component A)
Calendar Year                  1991 * 1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Nb Subprojects Approved                     55      55      71     79      47      9
-- USS million -------------
Amount Subprojects Approved               27.7   27.7   35.6   39.6   23.7    4.0
Investments a/                            15.8   23.7   31.6   39.6   39.6    7.9
FINDETER's Disbursements b/                9.4   14.1   18.8   23.5   23.5    4.7
a/ total costs of subprojects including subborrover's contributions.
b/ amounts rediscounted under participating subloans.
2/ Monitorinft Indicators for DNP
(Component C)
Calendar Year                  1991 * 1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
A. Instit. Assessments of                     -----(municipalities)------
Local Administrations                    20    100    200    200    165
B. Training of                               ---------(persons trained)--------
(a)  Trainers:                          225    225    175    175
(b)  ODP/CORPES staff                    50     50      50     50
(c)  Municipal Staff                    100    240   1090   1625   1970   400
31  Monitoring Indicators for IGAC
(Component C)
Calendar Year                  1991 * 1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
A) CADASTER REGISTERS
- Formation (1,000 parcels)              238    794    397
- Update          U                                     481    934    962    453
B) CARTOGRAPHY
- Aerial photo (1,000 ha)               1084  15980   5688
- Restitution      a                      58    290    145
- Mapping 1:5000 (1,000ha)               101    674    337
C) SOIL CLASSIFICATION
- Area Surveyed (1,000 ha)              1810  14340   7596
* assumes Loan effectiveness October 1991



- 69 -                              Annex 16
COLOMBIA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1.     Los Desequilibrios en el Desarrollo Municipal en Colombia, Wulf Stollbrock,
Banco Central Hipotecario, 1988.
2.     La Descentralizaci6n Fiscal y las Finanzas Regionales y Locales, Informe
Final, Gabriel Turbay Marulanda, Cooperaci6n T6cnica IDB ATN/SF-3187-CO,
1989.
3.     Calculo de la Capacidad de Endeudamiento Municipal y Departamental 1990-94,
Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n, August 1990.
4.     Los Intermediarios del Cr6dito Territorial, criterios para su selecci6n y
resultados del estudio de cinco casos, Banco Central Hipotecario, March
1989.
5.     Descentralizaci6n y Planificaci6n Regional:  Leyes, Decretos y Normas,
Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n, December 1987, 3 volumes.
6.     Proyecto Sectorial de Desarrollo Municipal - Casos de Estudio Municipales,
Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n, May 1988.
7.     FFDU - 10 aftos, Banco Central Hipotecario, 1985.
8.     Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano, AnAlisis y Evoluci6n Estadistica
1975-1990, BCH - Subgerencia de Desarrollo Regional y Urbano, May 1990.
9.     Plan de Desarrollo Territorial - Solicitud de cr6dito al BIRP y al BID,
Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n, May 1989.
10.    Programa de Desarrollo Territorial - Reglamento del Programa (draft), Banco
Central Hipotecario, April 1990.
11.    Plan de Desarrollo Territorial - Componente de Desarrollo Institucional,
Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n, October 1989 and August 1990.
12.    Proyecto Bases para Formacion de los Catastros Municipales de Colombia -
Versi6n 9,  Instituto Geogrffico Agustin Codazzi, December 1989.
13.    Programa de Modernizaci6n T6cnica, Instituto GeogrAfico Agustin Codazzi,
August 1990.
14.    FINDETER - Legal Documents File, 1989-1990.
15.    Staff Working Documents File (Financial Analysis, Cadaster, Training)



IBRD 18370R
71..                                  70                                      t
12*              . C O L O M B I                                       A    /< 1 2 *  "CA'
4   <              to   e    * veNezu-eo  a   A
PANAMA
Ocean                            ;ot     A                                        
f7C~~~~~~~~                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ k cst  o 
OC</1 f.N f~G                                                           V                 IAR
ww 5& ~~~~C A Q UETA  \*.%                                     -      - 9 L
Barre"q iApo,orrS
°'E C U A D OR                                                    \~s K 
Urbazn Paculaslon of Center lawns.    Elevations (mesetrsl): >;i o,                                  5              S
\05
00000,000 persons                                                               0 t   %   -v<>  <C°e<,  z  O   S0  100 iIO  200 250
000.000o           o 1     3.00                                         0                    KI eLtOMETERS
PANA_                             b°o°o°32°° 1000 ) A        AMA ZON A    S
*    National Capitl                                                       /              
o   Cities and Towns with Population Over 40,000                   \         
_    Main Highways                          p E R U                        -!,
--  Deparhuetn Inbendenrdo, and Camlsorlo Boundaries               I                        2
Innternaional Boundaries               fa        7      t/
NOVEMBER 1988



