Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22394
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-33360)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FORA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 25, 2001
FINANCE, PRIVATE SECTOR AND INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR MANAGEMENT UNIT
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
Col$ 1 = US$ 0.00043
US$ I = Col$ 2,325
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOC                 Government of Colombia
DNP                 National Planning Department (Departmento Nacional de Planeacion)
FFDU                Urban Development Fund
FINDETER            Territorial Development Bank (Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial';
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
IGAC                Agustin Codazzi Geographic Institute (Instituto Geografico Agustin
Codazzi)
MED                 Ministry of Economic Development
PSP                 Private Sector Participation
TA                  Technical Assistance
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:   Danny Leipziger
Task Manager:   Thakoor Persaud / Menahem Libhaber



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     5
6. Sustainability                                                                         7
7. Bank and Borrower Perl'ormance                                                         7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       10
9. Partner Comments                                                                      12
10. Additional Information                                                              16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006852                                         Project Name: Municipal Development Project
Team Leader: Thakoor Persaud                                TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Municipal Development Project                   L/C/TF Number: CPL-33360
CountryIDepartment: COLOMBIA                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: UM - Urban Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/20/1987                                Effective:  10/15/1991         05/15/1992
Appraisal:  06/01/1989                                 MTR:
Approval:  05/30/1991                                Closing:  12/31/1997          12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVT OF COLOMBIA/FINDETER/IGAC/ESAP
Other Parnners:  Inter-American Development Bank (IADB)
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       David De Ferranti                          Shahid S. Husain
Country Manager:      Olivier Lafourcade                         Ping-Cheung Loh
Sector Manager:       Jeffrey S. Gutman                          Graham Smith
Team Leader at ICR:   Thakoor Persaud                            Vincent J.Gouarne
ICR Primary Author:   Thakeor Persaud; Menahem
Libhaber
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The six objectives noted in the Loan Agreement were to: (a) remove infrastructure bottlenecks and improve
the coverage and operation of local government services, especially for low-income groups; (b) improve
the coverage and operation of services provided by Project Entities; (c) improve the financial performance
of Project Entities; (d) strengthen the institutional capabilities at the national and regional level to provide
technical support to Project Entities; (e) improve the skills of personnel of Project Entities in areas such as
revenue administration, expenditure management, and planning and delivery of local services; and (f)
improve the municipal resource base by strengthening the capability for cadastre definition and update.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Along with the above objectives, a new project component E was added to: Contribute to the institutional
improvement of the water sector companies by: (i) supporting one or more selected project entities to
undertake an institutional transformation which will render them more efficient, in accordance with the
requirements of the Borrower's Law 142; and (ii) providing the Borrower's authorities responsible for the
water sector with the know-how required to carry out the process of incorporation of the private sector in
the provision of domiciliary water and sewerage services.
Assessment of Objectives. The original and revised Development Objectives were clear, appropriate and
realistic and they were consistent both with the Bank and country assistance strategy. With increasing
urbanization, the Government of Colombia (GOC) began to adopt various decentralization measures. A
new constitution was prepared in 1991 and the roles of the central, departmental and local governments
were redefined. Among other things, the project was aimed at assisting the weak local government
institutions to better assume their new role, while at the same time, helping other partner entities such as
Instituto Geografico Agustin Codazzi (IGAC) and Departmento Nacional de Planificaci6n (DNP) to
position themselves for longer-term assistance. Another important element was the goal of helping to make
the newly-created Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial (FINDETER) a strong sector-financing entity.
While the original objectives were appropriate, in retrospect, it seems that they reflect a common feature of
projects of the era inasmuch as they gave the impression of providing one-time interventions aimed at
resolving all of the sector problems. These objectives may thus have been too many and too optimistic on
the expected outcomes and impact, especially in terms of depth and continuity as well as in the expectations
about the initial institutional capacity of the various project entities. Also, in line with projects prepared
during that era, the quantitative measures needed for assessing the degree of development impact and
achievement (e.g. improved coverage of services and staff skills), were not provided.
The objective of the new component E were also clear,appropriate and relevant and have been very
instrumental in assisting the Governnent in its reform initiatives and in embarking upon a national water
sector strategy within which the role of the private sector will be very important.
3.3 Original Components:
Component A. A line of credit administered by FINDETER for subloans originated by eligible
intermediaries to subnational govermments and municipal enterprises for subprojects to improve urban
infrastructure and local services and to strengthen beneficiary institutions. (Loan amount: Planned -
US$40.0 M; Actual - US$40.0 M).
Component B. Strengthening of FINDETER's operating capacity (IDB Financed)
-2 -



Component C. Training and I:nstitutional Support, including institutional assessments of about 700 local
government entities, training of about 6,400 sector personnel in such areas as planning, budgeting, revenue
generation, maintenance, etc. (Loan amount: Planned - US$8.0 M; Actual - US$7.04 M).
Component D. TA to help IGAC, the Institute in charge of cadastres, to improve its capacity and complete
a then ongoing program of updating about 4.3 million municipal cadastres nationwide. (Loan amount:
Planned - US$12.0 M; Actual US$9.0 M).
Assessment of Original Components. The original components seem to be the appropriate tools for
achieving the stated goals. They were well-delineated in terms of institutional responsibilities, while at the
same time, they showed clear complementarity. In retrospect, it appears that the preparation team was too
optimistic in its assumption that FINDETER, IGAC and DNP could quickly gear up and implement their
respective tasks with the high degree of coordination required to maximize the benefit of the investments.
3.4 Revised Components:
In addition to the four components listed in Section 3.3 above, Component E included a program for
institutional improvement of the water and sanitation sector companies through preparatory works for
privatization of one or more medium size water utilities, each serving a population of up to 500,000
inhabitants and institutional improvement support to community organizations for water supply to small
municipalities (of up to 30,000 inhabitants), along with promotion of the establishment of regional water
supply entities. (Loan amount: Planned US$3.96 M; Actual - US$4.27 M).
Assessment of Revised Component: While Component E is generally consistent with the other components
of Loan 3336, it was added from a then-ongoing water project (the Water and Sewerage Sector Project,
Loan 2961-CO) in the process of closing that project. Its focus upon privatization models for municipal
water entities was a timely response to the operation and maintenance gap which appeared in the orginal
project. Component E was a valuable instrument which served as the basis for implementing the
Government's strategy for improving the performance of the water-sector companies after it became evident
that municipal operation and maintenance issues were not easy to resolve without additional private sector
participation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no QAG review of this aspect of the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
There has been a positive impact in increased coverage of basic municipal services in the areas where
project works were done, especially in several semi-rural municipalities with low-income population.
Overall, about 179 municipalities with a total population of about 7.5 million residents benefitted from
FINDETER's component. IGAC's cadastre program registered plots for about 7 million families and
DNP's Technical Assistance (TA) program reached almost 700 municipalities. There was widespread
impact of the investments financed from various sources under this program. The project helped in
improving the financial and technical performance of the implementing entities, strengthening their
institutional capabilities at the national and regional level to provide technical support to municipalities. It
helped to improve the skills of personnel of FINDETER, IGAC and DNP, allowing them to provide TA in
such areas as revenue administration, expenditure management, and planning and delivery of local services.
The municipal resource base was strengthened through IGAC's assistance in cadastre definition and update
work. Component E was successful in providing support to a large number of utilities, helping them to
-3 -



incorporate greater private sector participation to the point where four utilities were successful in signing
contracts with private operators. Additionally, key staff in the national authority responsible for the water
sector (the Directorate of Water and Sanitation in the Ministry of Economic Development) have acquired
the expertise needed to continue private sector participation for water and sewerage services.
4.2 Outputs by components:
FINDETER used its US$40.0 M in Bank funds for subloans which partially financed 92 sub-projects,
leveraging about US$7.5 M of funding from FINDETER's own funds; about US$11.3 M from financial
intermediaries and about US$32.5 M in counterpart funds from municipalities. Among the projects
financed under the loan, about 60% (in number) were for roadworks (rehabilitation and expansion),
markets and urban sanitation works. Other categories of works included health centers, staff training,
abattoirs, telephones, parks, etc. At appraisal, a target of about 300 subprojects was mentioned; however,
this was later modified to 150. Reasons for this reduced figure were not clear but it is believed that later
sub-project analyses indicated that the original cost figures were too low. FINIDETER was not able to
reach the goal of 150 subprojects, primarily because the average cost of its subprojects grew from about
US$500,000 to about US$709,000 due to inflation as well as to demand by the financial intermediaries and
municipalities for larger sub-projects.
For DNP's technical assistance program, it completed 673 of its planned 685 institutional diagnosis
activities; 632 out of 685 contracts for technical assistance to municipal entities and it trained 7,219
municipal staff (versus a planned target of 5,400). In quantitative terms, its level of achievement has been
very satisfactory.
The IGAC component originally envisioned completion of 1,588,000 new cadastres and updating of
another 2,830,000 throughout the country. Its actual figures are 1,757,850 new cadastres and 5,175,768
updated ones. It surpassed its original targets under the project by a large margin.
Instead of 5-8 Private Sector Participation (PSP), Component E provided PSP support to 28 utilities via
the Ministry of Economic Development (MED), with two medium-size and two small municipalities
signing operating contracts with private operators. In addition, technical assistance packages, including
fmancial management and commercial software, were developed for water utilities of small municipalities.
About 60 training seminars for use of the packages was provided to representatives of 545 small
municipalities and community organizations, in which 2254 persons participated. An innovative model, the
"constructor-operator" model was developed to help small municipalities seeking private sector assistance.
Standard bidding documents and contract were developed for this model. PSP processes were carried out
for 8 small municipalities so far.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A limited sample of Intemal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) calculations for markets showed 16% while
slaughterhouses had a rate of about 18%. Part of the qualifying criteria for FINDETER to finance a
subproject was that it had to have an IERR greater than 12%. Because of several problems (frequent staff
changes, difficulty of locating initial analyses, problems in estimating current benefits, etc.) a systematic
comparison of ex-ante and ex-post IERR figures was not possible. However, in preparation for the
follow-up Bank/IDB loan (LN 4345-CO in 1998), consultants reviewing sample sub-projects found
satisfactory IERR figures. Component E provides TA and no economic rate of return analyses were done.
IERR for a sample of water subprojects analyzed as part of the PSP exercise showed a weighted average of
about 23%.
-4 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Because of the type of activities and the operations of the project entities, no financial rate of return
analysis was done for the components of FINDETER, DNP and IGAC. For Component E, the financial
projections showed an average rate of return of about 16%. In terms of project finances, there has not been
any repayment problems from those municipalities which borrowed from banks which rediscounted their
loans through FINDETER. Part of the reason for this is that these municipal loans are collateralized by
Central Government transfer payments. There has recently been some difficulty with banks which had to
be rescued by the Government but the extent of this problem is not clear at this time. For the DNP, IGAC
and MED components, no direct cost recovery or repayment by the beneficiary entity was envisaged for
their TA activities.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project achieved many of the quantified physical output targets established at appraisal; however, in
terms of its development impact, while it can be concluded that for the objectives listed in Sections 3.1 and
3.2, the degree of achievement has been generally met, the impact has been less than originally envisaged.
For example, while service coverage and operation of most project municipalities improved substantially
(not all of the improvement attributable to the project), there are still several operation and maintenance,
tariff, property tax and related issues to be addressed. Similarly, while FINDETER, IGAC and DNP were
all able to use the project funds and TA to improve their respective operations, FINDETER and IGAC
continue to face several internal and external challenges in a changing macroeconomic environment. The
DNP project entity was disbanded shortly after its component was completed. While the "training of
trainers" and diagnostic work have had some continuity as municipalities on their own seek out TA from
private consultants, the experience developed in this unit was lost after the unit was disbanded. Component
E achieved significant positive institutional development impact with the creation of a unit with competent
professionals in the Directorate of Water and Sanitation of the Ministry of Economic Development. This
unit continues to function well and it will be in charge of implementing the country's water policy through a
new Bank sector project currently under preparation. The two medium size cities PSPs will last for 30
years while the two small PSPs will run for 10 years.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency.
The project was prepared and implementation commenced during a period of significant changes in
Colombia. The new Constitution, while favorable from a decentralization policy viewpoint, created several
implementation problems as the various national and sub-national entities struggled to interpret and apply
it. Illegal drug activities also had a significant negative impact upon the project, resulting in limited access
to several municipalities in many parts of the country, difficulty in implementing property tax reforms and
cost recovery measures, damages to infrastructure facilities, etc. For IGAC, poor weather conditions
prevented aerial mapping and cadastre work in several parts of the country during the time when
FINDETER and/or DNP were focussing on these municipalities. Preparing technical specifications and
finding suppliers for IGAC's specialized equipment needs were also problem areas. For Component E, the
new constitution provided a strong basis for seeking more PSP in municipalities. The December 2000
municipal electoral process coincided with the end of the project and with the period for bidding and
selecting private operators for participating water utilities. This had a negative impact because it froze
some municipal decisions and distracted participants. It was only possible to get 4 PSPs done under such
conditions. Security conditions also deterred foreign private operators and investors from seeking new
opportunities in the country and may have also limited the pool of consultants hired under component E.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Poor coordination at the national level among FINDETER, IGAC and DNP is one key area where the GOC
- 5 -



could have helped in maximizing project impact. Lack of counterpart funding for IGAC, especially during
the latter part of the project, also contributed to delays. Other factors include difficulty of contracting
works and services on time, frequent staff changes at all levels in the implementing entities as well as in the
municipalities, difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified staff, primarily because of low salaries, and
limited use of lessons learned. Because of coordination problems within the Government and budget
constraint, the first (of three) year for implementation of this component was lost. Frequent changes at all
levels in the MED (from ministers through Project Implementation Unit - PIU staff) also created problems.
Additionally, there were inconsistencies within the environmental legislation, unclear environmental
regulations and fears regarding the excessive payment of water pollution charges (tasas retributivas) which
contributed to the reluctance of private operators to submit proposal for the PSP bidding process.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Among the primary factors related to the components of FINDETER, DNP and IGAC are the initial
reluctance of the implementing entities to decentralize their operations in order to speed up turnaround
approval time, supervision, etc; slow preparation and approval of work programs; reluctance to
communicate with other project entities and lack of follow-up mechanisms.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Final project cost figures are difficult to calculate, primarily because apart from Bank financing,
FINDETER also received an IDB loan as well as other resources from its own funds, GOC budget funds,
intermediary institutions and municipalities. The figures below are an estimate of the Bank-generated
lending activities.
Component                     Appraisal Estimate (US$M)      Actual Expenditures (US$M)
Local    Foreien     Total     Local      Foreign     Total
A. Municipal Projects       86.20     72.00     158.20      92.30      89.00     181.30
B. Inst. Devt. Findet        2.40      1.60       4.00       2.40       1.60       4.00
C. Training & Inst. Sup.     6.20      3.80      10.00       3.90       7.40      11.30
D. Cadastre                  4.10     11.90       16.00      0.30       7.10       7.40
E. Inst. Devt. Wtr. Sct.        -         -          -       3.40       0.90       4.30
Total            98.90      89.30     188.20    102.30     106.10    208.30
Project financing was as follows:
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)      Actual Expenditures (UJS$M)
Local    Foreign     Total     Local      Foreign     Total
IBRD                                  60.00      60.00                 60.00      60.00
IDB                          4.00     40.00      44.00       4.00      40.00      44.00
Sub-borrowers               47.50                47.50      47.50                 47.50
FINDETER                    14.10                 14.10     21.40       6.10      27.50
Financial Intermediaries    16.60                16.60      21.20                 21.20
CORPES                       0.70                 0.70          0                    0
National Government          5.30                 5.30       8.10                  8.10
Total            88.20    100.00      188.20    102.30     106.10    208.30
Note: The category of expense for approx. US$0.4 M is now being finalized by MED/IGAC/DNP
- 6 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project has a "likely" sustainability rating because the impact of the components financed (both
physical works and TA) helped municipalities to increase their service coverage as well as to improve
operational efficiency. With more intensive coordination and follow-up actions, there could have been
more achieved in maintenance, property-tax adjustment and cost recovery. Many municipalities
nevertheless took advantage of the loan and TA to improve their provision of basic services, strengthen
their operations, update their property tax records, and otherwise improve their operations. As part of the
national reform process, every municipality now has to prepare a municipal plan. These plans are being
formulated in a more professional manner and in almost all of the municipalities, there is full acceptance of
the principle of competitive bidding, a larger degree of cost recovery and a greater willingness to reduce
staff. Many municipalities are facing financial crisis because of the current political and socioeconomic
problems in Colombia and also because of their heavy debt burden and their inability or unwillingness to
improve their own-source revenues. This could make many of the achievements of the project uncertain if
they continue much longer. The MED component is also expected to be very instrumental in promoting
greater private sector participation in water and sanitation services and this may lead to further acceptance
of the private sector in such areas as markets, slaughterhouses and solid waste management. FINDETER
was able to consolidate and improve its operations, promoting greater self-sufficiency among municipal
entities. However, as a second-tier lender in an era when many banks are facing liquidity problems and
many municipalities are also running up deficits, there is greater uncertainty in FINDETER's future.
Frequent efforts to modify its role have also had a negative impact; however, it has the potential to
surmount these obstacles if the Government accepts its recent proposal to improve its operation. As the
national budget comes under pressure and local governments are being increasingly pushed to greater self
reliance, the full impact of IGAC's updated cadastre work would find favor as more municipalities tum to
property tax to make up for reduced transfers.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
From the beginning, with the exception of the DNP unit for the TA component, FINDETER and IGAC
have been the entities responsible for municipal finance and cadastre respectively. Similarly, the
investment and TA were directed at the municipal entities which customarily do the tasks. There is
therefore no special transition arrangements needed for these entities to continue with their tasks. In the
case of the DNP unit, at one time it was envisaged that it would continue to offer TA to regional and local
administrative entities. However, these plans were changed and this unit was disbanded. The
municipalities have been working to make their operations more efficient and many are seeking greater
private sector participation in such key areas as water and sewerage, markets, transport and other
activities. For the MED component, a new water sector project is being prepared to continue to widen and
deepen the achievements obtained so far. It is envisaged that the PIU in the MED will continue to be
responsible for the proposed new operation; no special transition arrangements are therefore needed.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The PAD and other preparation documents reflect a high level of interaction with the
Borrower, IDB and national counterpart staff and very detailed analyses. More direct contact with the
municipal entities by the Bank, IDB and the implementing entities to explain Bank procedures,
requirements, etc., may have smoothed out some of the start-up problems and highlighted the need for
greater coordination. Both in Colombia as well as in the Bank, there were institutional changes taking
- 7 -



place during that period. Given the proposed impact expected from the project, the complexity of the
project, the then-evolving role for FINDETER and several other institutional factors, it may have been
prudent for the Bank to either consider scaling back the project or waiting a bit longer until some of the
preparatory work were more fully completed. Some of the start-up delays (e.g., the problem of finding
private-sector banks which were willing to participate in the lending program, the use of DNP as the TA
entity, difficulty of finding acceptable sub-projects among the first batches submitted for approval), could
be attributed to this factor. The Bank did send a post-appraisal mission which helped to address some of
the above-mentioned issues; however this team comprised different staff from those who did the appraisal -
an early indication of initial continuity problems. Although Component E was approved by the Board,
more thought should have been given before adding it here after the project was almost completed.
7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. During the period immediately after loan effectiveness, supervision efforts were only
marginally satisfactory. It appears that the Bank did not make full use of the two-year period immediately
after appraisal and effectiveness to work intensively with the Borrower and counterpart staff for this
project. An important formative intervention period was thus not fully utilized. During this period, for
example, there were only three missions, two with one person and one with two persons. This situation
could be a reflection of both then-ongoing country and Bank changes. The pace of supervision picked up
and averaged twice a year during the latter part of the project. Component E had supervision continuity;
supervision missions were frequent and focused on both the pilot operation and the preparation of a new
water sector project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. While indications are that the project preparation stage needed more Bank attention and
perhaps, could have benefitted from some more preparation time and effort, and the supervision of the
FINDETER, DNP and IGAC components should have been more intense and focussed, especially during
the early phase of the project, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory, primarily because of the
achievements of the project, aided by improved supervision efforts of the Bank in coordination with IDB.
T'he technical, financial and administrative support of the Bank in the water component contributed to a
consolidated government sector policy, improved multilevel coordination and increased interest in PSP
activities in the sector.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. As noted above, Colombia was in the midst of several important changes during the late
1980s when the project was under preparation. There was pressure to undertake various decentralization
actions at all levels and, like the Bank staff, many counterpart staff appeared to have underestimated the
complexity and capacity of the project entities to undertake the work. The decision to have DNP
implement a component was based upon the belief that, apart from its policy role, DNP would also assume
an active lead TA role. It appears that the logistics and resource requirements for assuming such a role, as
well as the institutional rationale, were not very well thought through. Consequently, there were several
start-up and coordination problems, changed directions and high staff turnover.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. In the implementation phase, the GOC made special efforts to facilitate smooth project
implementation. However, many of the mechanisms for ensuring the required degree of inter-institutional
coordination among project entities did not fully materialize for various reasons. Even when DNP's urban
planning division tried to assist, it was not successful, primarily because of the large degree of autonomy
and different agendas which DNP, FINDETER and IGAC had. Toward the latter period of project
-8 -



implementation, lack of counterpart funds for IGAC became a recurring problem. Even though the GOC
repeatedly agreed to provide the funds and the budgets were approved, getting the actual allocations proved
problematic. The GOC was not able to get many of the lessons learned from the project institutionalized
among a wider national audience (especially the operation and maintenance needs, the importance of
updated cadastres and the TA program). For the MED component, there were also several start-up budget
problems; however, these improved after the first year and the PIU was able to work well with all of its
partners.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Initially, FINDETER had problems defining its role and establishing itself after evolving
from the old Urban Development Fund (FFDU). During this early period, there were several organizational
issues to address and it was apparently not as prepared as it should have been for the national lending
program envisaged under the project. Its initial centralized structure was also an early impediment as were
the frequent staff changes at all levels. Getting the interest of private financial intermediary entities to
participate in its lending program was a challenge. After these start-up difficulties, FINDETER managed
to organize itself, decentralize its operations, develop a close contact with its municipal clients and
introduce them to several good practices (in sub-project analyses, contracting, supervision, private sector
participation, etc.). FINDETER was also very instrumental in getting many banks to become familiar with
lending to municipalities and its loan-guarantee program has had an ongoing positive impact on sector
lending, especially in creating a medium-term portfolio among these banks.
For IGAC, the evolution from a passive institution into one where it was expected to become more
pro-active was a great challenge. It was a rather difficult exercise transforming IGAC into a more
demand-driven entity with a close TA role for municipalities. Frequent staff changes, bad weather
conditions, delays in getting specialized equipment and later on, counterpart funding problems, also
complicated the situation. In spite of this, IGAC did manage to exceed the physical targets established
under the project and give municipalities a potential source of revenue through their updated cadastres.
After having its share of start-up problems, the DNP TA unit managed to meet and later exceed its training
and TA targets. However, even while it was making progress in its component under the project, there
continued to be questions about its location, role and functions. After completing several diagnostic studies
and signing agreements with mayors to embark on a large-scale TA program, the 1994 elections brought in
new mayors and councils and resulted in suspension or elimination of many of these initiatives. The unit
was disbanded shortly after the funds under this component were spent but since most of the staff continued
to work in similar fields, the know-how developed under this component is still being used by many
municipalities.
After a rather shaky beginning because of budget and staff-turnover problems, the PIT was able to absorb
valuable knowledge and experience in managing PSP processes in the water sector. It led and provided
support to the territorial entities it interacted successfully with the Bank, consultants and PSP investors and
was able to mainstream many of the lessons of the pilot operation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. Given the context within which the project was prepared and implemented, the Borrower
performed satisfactorily in spite of the various shortcomings mentioned above. When problems were
brought to the attention of GOC officials, they made efforts to address the issues; however, the results were
not always as positive as they could have been.
-9



8. Lessons Learned
FINDETER, DNP and IGAC Components:
a) Private-sector financial intermediaries can be a source of municipal finance with the right conditions.
In this project, after some initial reluctance and start-up problems, FINDETER managed to leverage about
US$11.3 M (approximately 10% of total project cost) from financial intermnediaries and create the nucleus
of a medium-term finance market. Admittedly, most of these were public-sector financial intermediaries;
however, in the ongoing follow-up project, it is expected that there will be more private-sector banks
participating.
b) While private sector lenders may need strong guarantees initially in order to make loans to
municipalities, care should be taken to avoid an overdependence upon such guarantees and to push more
for financially-stronger municipalities. In this project, since the national revenue sharing program was used
to guarantee subloans to municipal entities and repayment was through these flows, this could have created
a tendency for both lenders and borrowers to be less concemed about the financial and economic viability
of the investments financed. Bank-approved selection criteria countered somewhat this project
shortcoming. The follow-up project incorporates several rigorous analyses of borrowing entities and
lenders are expected to assume greater risks.
c) Even though the need for inter-institutional coordination may be obvious and clearly desirable, unless
there is a very well-defined, simple and strong mechanism for effecting such coordination, the results may
be disappointing. The importance of having FINDETER, IGAC and DNP working together within the
same timeframe, institutional clusters and zones was clear; however, the incentives for this were weak and
the enforcement mechanisms were rather ineffective. Consequently, the required degree of coordination did
not occur and some synergistic impacts were lost.
d) Because operation and maintenance tasks are associated with finished works, there is the tendency to
postpone attention to them until the works are completed. In this project, because of start-up and related
difficulties, there was added pressure to focus on the more immediate issues. Partly as a result of this,
many of the works were completed without the needed improved operation and maintenance provisions
being in place. Some ex-post efforts (including the water PSP activity), are now being made to correct this
deficiency.
e) The role of the private sector in the provision of urban services should be an integral part of any
infrastructure investment. In this project, it was assumed that the municipal entities would be able to
operate and maintain the facilities after they were built and the possible role of the private sector was not as
fully considered as it should have been at the outset.
f) There is need for the Bank and other lenders and donors to consider "appropriate technology" solutions
more carefully in designing lending programs. In many cases, especially among low-income groups, a
high-cost solution such as piped-water in homes, for example, may not be sustainable for these groups
without large subsidies and they may be better off in the long run with a reliable but lower level of service
(such as standpipes or regulated tanker-trucks), rather than a sophisticated one with high operation and
maintenance costs.
g) Having more than one lending entity can cause complications at several levels. In this project, the Bank
and IDB had their individual procurement, sub-project evaluation and other procedures. Additionally, the
country has its normal systems and procedures. This resulted in a period of initial confusion as the project
- 1 0 -



and municipal entities struggled to understand what was to be done, under which set of guidelines, for
which lender etc. Frequent staff changes did not help this situation. Greater efforts at streamlining lending
conditions as well as borrower orientation should be considered.
h) In designing and preparing projects, lenders should pay more explicit attention to the impact of possible
electoral changes and appropriate provisions should be made for these. After preparatory works and
agreements were made with mayors for TA (DNP), implementation of cadastre programs (IGAC) and
infrastructure investments and tariff adjustments (FINDETER), many of the incoming mayors and
councillors refused to continue with the activities initiated under their predecessors. Valuable time and
resources were lost because of such complications.
i) It appears that there is need for the Bank to evaluate more explicitly the impact of internal
reorganizations upon client countries. Staff distraction and gaps in taking early follow-up actions may
have contributed to some of the initial start-up problems of this project. The fact that the GOC was
undergoing a similar set of changes was also a complicating factor.
Component E:
j) The PSP experience with water utilities in Colombia, Chile, Argentina and Bolivia, and in other parts of
the world indicates that a strong commitment of each municipality is fundamental. Preparing both the
community and municipal authorities for PSP is an important precondition. Reaching agreement on an
adequate tariff and subsidy structure early in the process is also very important. In preparing the PSP
processes in Colombia, MED worked with all parties and reached agreement with each mayor on the tariff
level needed to cover operational and maintenance costs as well as part of the investment costs. Improved
targeting of subsidies was also part of the preparation process.
k) Maintaining a flexible framework and adequate time for key activities can aid in successful results.
Dropping municipalities which are reluctant to take needed preparatory actions and working with all
participants to prepare appropriate bidding documents which reflect the special needs of the community as
well as incentives to bidders aided in the successful completion of the MED component.
1) Using a single consultant to prepare the package could be more beneficial than having more than one do
the task. In this component, use of a single consultant to prepare the package (works, investments,
financial, legal and bidding documents) improved the quality and consistency of the output. This, with
clearly-defined responsibilities between the PIU and the consulting firms, helped to improve efficiency and
productivity.
m) Even with flexible systems, there should be some degree of standardization to facilitate the process. In
order to ensure quality and standardized processes, it is advisable to request all consulting firms to use
standard financial models for the analysis of the new private sector managed utilities and to use model
bidding documents and a PSP contract for preparing the transactions.
n) PSP does not mean that there is no need for a continued government role. Even the larger municipalities
would have problems contributing more than about 20% of the needed investments. For the smaller ones
with a high proportion of poor households, they are even weaker. The National Government thus still
needs to continue to be a fundamental stakeholder in financing the water and sanitation sector in all but the
largest municipalities. Also, the signing of a PSP contract is only the start of a complex transaction
process that requires several years to consolidate. The government, therefore, needs to provide continuous
support to the privatized utilities in technical, financial and political aspects.
- 1 1 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PROYECTO DE DESARROLLO MUNICIPAL
COLOMBIA
BIRF 3336-CO
i.    Introducci6n
El contrato de prestamo fue suscrito el 8 de noviembre de 1991 entre la Repuiblica de Colombia y el Banco
Internacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento por un monto de 60 millones de d6lares, orientados al
Desarrollo Municipal.
ii.    Objetivos del proyecto:
a) Remover los cuellos de botella de la infraestructura municipal y mejorar el cubrimiento y operaci6n de
los servicios gubemnamentales locales, especialnente para grupos de bajos ingresos
b) Mejorar el cubrimiento y operaci6n de los servicios prestados por Entidades del Proyecto
c) Mejorar el desempeiio financiero de las Entidades del Proyecto
d) Fortalecer las capacidades institucionales a nivel nacional y regional para suministrar apoyo tecnico a
Entidades del Proyecto
e) Mejorar las habilidades del personal de las Entidades de Proyecto en areas de administraci6n de ingresos,
administraci6n de gastos de planeacion y entrega de servicio locales
f) Mejorar la base de recurso municipal fortaleciendo la capacidad para la definici6n y actualizaci6n
catastral.
Para alcanzar estos objetivos el proyecto se dividi6 en 4 componentes:
Componente        Responsable                Objectivos                     Valor
A         FINDETER           Linea de credito administrada por  US$40 millones
FINDETER para financiar proyectos  BIRF 3336-CO
de infraestructura urbana y
fortalecimiento institucional.
BID 715 CO OC
B         FINDETER           Fortalecer las capacidades de     BID 887 SF OC
operaci6n de FINDETER
Asistencia Tecnica a los municipios
C         DNP-PDI            Desarrollar un programa de        US$8 millones
entrenamiento y apoyo institucional   BIRF 3336-CO
para fortalecer a los municipios y a
los organismos asesores
D         IGAC               Fortalecer la capacidad de operaci6n   US$12millones
del IGAC y actualizar el catastro  BIRF 3336-CO
municipal a nivel nacional
TOTAL                                                US$60 millones
BIRF 3336-CO
- 12 -



iii.    Logro de los objetivos.
El programa contempl6 la integralidad entre los componentes de inversion (A) y los de mejoramiento
institucional (B, C y D). La concepci6n del programa busc6 el fortalecimiento de la entidad territorial, no
solamente a traves de una acci6n directa con el proyecto ligada al desarrollo institucional del sector, sino al
mejoramiento de la administraci6n central dentro de un esfuerzo integral por un desarrollo equilibrado
frente al sector financiado. Sin embargo la debilidad estructural para soportar esta integraci6n debido a una
baja capacidad de coordinaci6n interinstitucional, a la limitada importancia que las entidades territoriales le
dieron al mejoramiento institucional de la administraci6n central y a la perdida de la memoria institucional
por la rotaci6n del personal hicieron que la concepci6n y disefio del programa no lograra integrar los
componentes.
El componente A se disefio para incrementar la infraestructura, operaci6n y mantenimiento de los servicios
locales. Las inversiones se circunscribieron a aquellas diferentes a acueducto y alcantarillado ya que estos
sectores se financiaron con el credito del Banco Mundial 2961 CO. Se aprobaron 83 operaciones con las
cuales se financiaron 92 proyectos. En promedio, el costo de los proyectos del programa fue de
USD$708.744 y el promedio de recursos de credito aprobados USD$ 469.067. La mayor concentraci6n de
proyectos aprobados se presenta en vias y plazas de mercado (33 y 15 proyectos respectivamente), los
montos mas importantes de creditos aprobados fueron para vias y redes telef6nicas y solamente 9 proyectos
incluyeron la financiaci6n de programas de desarrollo institucional.
La ejecuci6n del componente C, signific6 una movilizaci6n masiva del recurso humano en el pais en
materia de capacitaci6n, estudio, analisis y preocupaci6n de todos los niveles de la administraci6n publica
en el tema de desarrollo institucional. En la mayoria de los municipios se busc6 fortalecer la participaci6n
de la comunidad en el desarrollo de los proyectos de todas las areas, previa la elaboraci6n de 673
diagn6sticos en igual numero de municipios, labor que permiti6 la formulaci6n en estos de 3 172 proyectos
de desarrollo institucional; sin embargo, estos no se concretaron en creditos del componente A. De igual
manera, en la ejecuci6n de proyectos PDI en el area de planeaci6n, muchos alcaldes lograron, mediante
procesos participativos y conforme a los terminos legales, elaborar y presentar sus correspondientes Planes
de Desarrollo.
El Componente D cumpli6 sus objetivos de manera parcial ya que no se logr6 consolidar el proceso de
descentralizaci6n tecnica, administrativa y fiscal mediante el fortalecimiento de la estructura de planeaci6n,
financiaci6n, administracion y gesti6n puiblica de los diferentes entes territoriales. Sin embargo, se logr6
adecuar la capacidad instalada del IGAC el que ayud6 a las administraciones locales a mejorar sus
sistemas de recaudo acelerando el ciclo de informaci6n y actualizaci6n catastral y les proporcion6 la
informaci6n necesaria para el diseino e implementaci6n de planes y programas de desarrollo territorial. Se
actualizaron 5.175768 predios y se formaron 1.757.849 predios: como resultado del trabajo de cartografla
se espera tener a disposici6n de los usuarios mapas digitales del 90% de las capitales de departamento,
insumo basico para la formulaci6n de planes de ordenamiento territorial. La adquisici6n de equipos
modemos para el laboratorio de suelos ha incidido en el mejoramiento de la gesti6n en cuanto a la calidad y
entrega oportuna de resultados.
Los desembolsos totales del credito ascienden a US$53.9 millones, correspondientes al 90% del prestamo.
- 13-



iv.    Principales factores que afectaron el proyecto
Varios factores contribuyeron negativamente durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto:
* La financiaci6n de proyectos por parte de FINDETER se caracteriz6 por: deficiencias en los estudios y
disefios hechos con anterioridad generando demoras y acciones adicionales de revisi6n y ajuste acorde
con los criterios establecidos por FINDETER; baja capacidad de gesti6n de las administraciones
locales; deficientes interventorias y poca valoraci6n de su importancia por parte de las
administraciones locales; alta rotaci6n del personal en las administraciones locales, la falta de
participaci6n de la comunidad y el corto periodo de los alcaldes restringe la formulaci6n e
implementaci6n de prograrnas de mediano y largo plazo, siendo poca la continuidad en los planes de
desarrollo; falta de continuidad en el manejo del programna por parte del Banco Mundial al tener
diversos interlocutores y criterios durante su ejecuci6n. Los limites establecidos por tipo de licitaci6n
obligaron al manejo de un volumen apreciable de informaci6n sobre procesos de contrataci6n. Estos
procesos conllevaron demoras adicionales en la ejecuci6n de los proyectos en comparaci6n con la
legislaci6n nacional. No se logr6 consolidar un sistema de informaci6n integral que permitiera
acumular la memoria institucional de los proyectos.
*   El Programa inici6 su ejecuci6n en forma simultanea con la promulgaci6n de la nueva Constituci6n
Politica de 1991, lo cual implic6 la necesidad de introducir algunos ajustes al Programa, especialmente
a partir de los desarrollos normativos de la Carta Constitucional. Estos ajustes se relacionaron en los
documentos "Avance y Balance" de septiembre/94 y el Informe Final PDI, 1991-1996.
- El componente D se vi6 afectado por problemas de asignaci6n presupuestal y de condiciones climaticas
y de orden plblica, por lo cual no se pudieron ejecutar totalmente actividades de aerofotografia y la
formulaci6n catastral de municipios ubicados en zonas de dificil acceso.
v.     Sustentabilidad del proyecto
La sostenibilidad del proyecto depende del compromiso de los dirigentes locales y el Gobiemo Nacional.
La sostenibilidad se fundamenta principalmente en la aplicaci6n de los resultados de estudios, asistencia
ticnica experiencias adquiridas y lecciones del Programa, los cuales sirvieron para la formulaci6n de
directrices de la nueva politica de consolidaci6n de la descentralizaci6n, planteadas en el documento
CONPES No. 2788 de junio de 1995. Esta experiencia soporta la politica impuesta en el Programa Mejor
Gesti6n de los Departamentos -PMGD-, como estrategia de fortalecimiento a la gestion territorial a partir
de las recomendaciones y lecciones aprendidas durante la ejecuci6n del PDI, posteriormente recogidas por
la Evaluaci6n Ex-post del Programa. En este sentido, de las lecciones aprendidas del PDI, las acciones
futuras a desarrollar se circunscriben en los avances logrados hasta el momento mediante el desarrollo de la
estrategia definida en la politica sefialada.
vi.    Desempeio del Banco
El Banco Mundial intervino y dio su aprobaci6n a los ajustes del proyecto requeridos en el nuevo marco
Constitucional vigente. En este sentido, puede calificarse como un desempefho adecuado. No obstante, este
organismo debe considerar una participaci6n mas activa en la ejecuci6n de los proyectos, de tal forma que
trascienda la esfera de la supervisi6n con el objeto de servir de apoyo en el proceso operativo. Se debe
reforzar por parte del Banco el seguimiento durante ejecuci6n (posterior a la aprobaci6n), de los
respectivos subproyectos, para poder corregir oportunamente las desviaciones o desfases que se Ilegaren a
- 14 -



presentar durante esta etapa y lograr cumplir con los objetivos propuestos en los programas. Se propone al
Banco que se asuma un papel mas participativo de los funcionarios de la Misi6n Residente, lo que
facilitaria la comunicaci6n y agilizaria los procedimientos.
vii.   Desempeflo del prestatario
Durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto FINDETER fue un promotor de la cultura del proyecto integral en los
entes territoriales y sus empresas descentralizadas responsables de la operaci6n, adrninistraci6n y
mantenimiento del proyecto financiado. La promoci6n se dio a trav6s de la consideraci6n y evaluacion de
los aspectos tecnicos, econ6micos, financieros, institucionales y ambientales tanto del proyecto como el
impacto del proyecto en el servicio puiblico. No obstante los resultados de la implantaci6n del desarrollo
institucional, la labor de FINDETER se dirigi6 en este aspecto al fortalecimiento del servicio en el nivel
territorial, de tal forma que velaran por el mantenimiento, operaci6n y administraci6n de los proyectos
financiados.
Las funciones y responsabilidades de las diferentes instancias del PDI estuvieron enmarcadas dentro de los
procedimientos y requisitos establecidos en el texto del contrato de Prestamo y en el Manual de
Operaciones del Progama, que para cada etapa debian surtirse y cumplirse. De otra parte, la identificaci6n
de la demanda de desarrollo institucional de los municipios busc6 generar un proceso en el que estos
identificaran, de acuerdo con sus nuevas funciones, cuales eran sus potencialidades y debilidades para
asumir el reto de la descentralizaci6n. A la luz de esta experiencia, el prestatario experiment6 un modelo de
intervenci6n subregional para acometer procesos de desarrollo institucional municipal, con el fin de
brindarle a los departamentos otra alternativa de trabajo con el PDI. En forma permanente, el prestatario se
nutrio de las experiencias adquiridas durante la ejecuci6n del PDI, de tal forma que influy6 en la
formulaci6n de la politica de descentralizaci6n.
El IGAC acogi6 las prioridades impuestas por el programa, y atendi6 los requerimientos realizados por los
funcionarios del Banco.
viii.   Valoraci6n de resultados
Aunque el programa concibi6 tres componentes complementarios al componente A para el desarrollo
territorial, no hubo interacci6n entre los diversos ejecutores, perdiendose la oportunidad de potencializar
mas rapidamente el desarrollo territorial dentro del esquema de descentralizaci6n.
Cada componente del PDT se manej6 independientemente con resultados satisfactorios para cada uno. Sin
embargo, no se puede verificar el impacto conjunto en los municipios. Muy posiblemente, el Programa de
Desarrollo Institucional (PDI) hubiera sido complementario y bastante uitil para lograr fortalecer la gesti6n
de los municipios, sobre todo en aquellos donde se financiaron proyectos con recursos del componente A.
Los retrasos que en el avance de los desarrollos del Programa empezaron a registrarse frente al
cumplimiento de unos cronogramas y metas preestablecidas hicieron que, afanosamente y en forma masiva,
se desarrollaran acciones improvisadas con miras recuperar el tiempo y cumplir la meta, primando
entonces el resultado final, en detrimento de la calidad y cualificacion de los importantes procesos que
debian surtirse.
ix.    Futuras operaciones
* Reorientar la estrategia de desarrollo institucional en los proyectos, teniendo en cuenta que se debe
- 15 -



afianzar en la entidad la importancia del componente institucional en el ciclo del proyecto y coordinar
con el nivel nacional las politicas a implementar para el fortalecimiento institucional en los aspectos
gerenciales de los sectores objeto de financiaci6n con de la entidad.
*   La redefinici6n de roles en el triangulo FINDETER-Intermediario-Prestatario debe darse sin salirse de
la misi6n. Hay discrepancias sobre la interpretaci6n de papeles, especialmente: l) el del intermediario
financiero a quien algunos ven como competidor y otros como cliente. 2) El del ente territorial a quien
unos ven exclusivamente como un cliente prestatario de un credito para realizar un proyecto y otros
como un cliente que debe resolver un problema a traves de un proyecto para el cual asume un credito.
En el primer caso prestar plata y recuperarla con eficiencia es el fm institucional. En el segundo, el
objetivo es apoyar la realizaci6n de buenos proyectos, con base en creditos que deben ser manejados
eficientemente para poder financiar mas proyectos. Entre las dos percepciones, se mueve algo mas que
un juego sutil de palabras: se puede mover la misi6n y con ella la misma raz6n de ser de la instituci6n.
x.     Lecciones aprendidas
*   Como conclusi6n general del PDT, se puede resaltar que FINDETER logr6 apoyar a los entes
territoriales en el proceso de descentralizaci6n a traves de la financiaci6n de obras importantes para su
desarrollo; adicionalmente, logr6 difundir la cultura del proyecto integral. Dado el entomo institucional
y legal, FINDETER por si sola no pudo afianzar el proceso de fortalecimiento institucional de las
administraciones territoriales, lo que es imposible de lograr en el marco aislado de la financiaci6n de
proyectos de infraestructura. Como consecuencia de lo anterior, el PDT no logr6 el impacto esperado
en terminos del desarrollo institucional.
*   Cualquier acci6n de fortalecimiento de la capacidad de gesti6n de las localidades debe contar con la
voluntad politica decidida e irrestricta por parte del respectivo gobemante territorial, en respeto a la
autonomia. De igual forma, es necesario que el mandatario lidere la acci6n y la incorpore a su
administraci6n.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
The Partner Comments in Section 9 cover Components A through D. Partner Comments for Component E,
which was added to the Project after its initial approval, can be found in the project file as indicated in
Annex 7, "List of Supporting Documents".
-16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Ma                         oJc fedInlast PSR                   ActuaILatest Esimate
Indicators Not Available
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matdx                    Projected In last PSR                 AcuaUlLatest Estimate
a) Approval of 316 infrastructure subloans by 83                            83
FINDETER.
b) FINDETER's operating capacity improved Qualitative improvements          Qualitative Improvements
and its pipeline of projects increased.
c) DNP training for about 6,425 staff in 685  7,219 Staff in 632 Municipalities  7,219 Staff in 632 Municipalities
municipal entities.
d) Strengthen IGAC and carry out      6.9 million updated and new cadastre  6.9 million updated and new cadastre
registration for about 4.3 million parcels  registries.                     registries.
nationwide.
Project component E: implementing an  Successfully finalizing one or more PSP  PSP completed in 2 medium size and 2
assistance program to support a process to  processes in medium size cities  small cties, with 28 others in preparation
increase private sector participation in the                                stage.
w&s sector, aimed at carrying out and
successfully finalizing a PSP process for one
or more medium size water utilities.
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Apprlalw   ActualALAt6st   Percetag of
64inmAte     Estmatet        Appraisal
A. Municipal Projects                              158.20         181.30            117
B. Institutional Development FINDETER                4.00           4.00            100
C. Training                                         10.00          11.30            113
D. Cadastre                                         16.00           7.40             45
E. Water Supply and Sanitation                                      4.30
Total Baseline Cost                                188.20         208.30
Total Project Costs            188.20         208.30
Total Financing Required            188.20         208.30
Note. The SAR included projected IDB and other investments. Since no ex-post figures were available,
they could not be compared with the SAR projections.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
NCR                       N.S.Fp.ndituwi  To >0 0; tal =>cost
1. Works                    10.20         35.50         5.10         50.70       101.50
(5.20)      (18.20)        (2.60)       (0.00)      (26.00)
2. Goods                     13.70        13.70         6.80         23.90        58.10
(10.10)      (7.00)        (3.00)       (0.00)      (20.10)
3. Services                                            19.20         7.50         26.70
0            0          (13.90)       (0.00)      (13.90)
4. Land                                                 1.00          1.00        2.00
o            O           (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                                                                  0.00
I               O             O            O          (0.00)
Total                     23.90        49.20         32.10        83.10        188.30
.______________________    (15.30)  (25.20)  (19.50)       (0.00)      (60.00)
18 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuaVLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Categoy          ICs PBocwnnt Method  2                     N.BF.       Total Cost
___          Other       _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
1. Works                        8.00           50.00          6.00          51.00         115.00
(5.00)        (22.00)        (2.00)           0           (29.00)
2. Goods                        10.80          21.00          8.00           24.00         63.80
(6.00)        (12.00)        (3.00)           0           (21.00)
3. Services                                    19.00          2.00           7.50          28.50
O            (9.00)        (1.00)           0           (10.00)
4. Land                                                                      1.00           1.00
o              O             0              0           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                                                                           0.00
0        _                    Q                         (0.00)
Total                        18.80          90.00          16.00          83.50        208.30
.___ _ _   (11.00)   (43.00)        (6.00)         (0.00)       (60.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                      .Esdmate                                       Percentage of Appraisal
Component                 Apprasl Estimate             A      LatestEtmt 
Ba-sk     Govt.     Ce?.      Bank       Gv        C.                    I CbF.
A. Municipal Projects    40.00               118.20     40.00               139.00   100.0          117.6
B. Institutional                              4.00                           4.00                   100.0
Development FINDETER
C. Training               8.00      1.30      0.70      8.00       1.30               100.0  100.0   0.0
D. Cadastre              12.00      4.00                 7.73      4.00               64.4  100.0
E. Water Supply and                                      4.27
Sanitation
- 19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Subloans were made to municipalities and only minimum acceptable IERRs were specified. Ex-post
IERRs were done only for a sample of projects (see Section 4.3)
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No, of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
08/85                      NA
10/85                      NA
05/86                        1   EC
06/87                        2   EC, US
12/87                        2   EC, ID
03/88                        3   EC, US, SE
09/88                        4   EC, US, SE, ID
Appraisal/Negotiation
08/89                        3   SE, US, EC
12/89                        5   SE, US, EC, US, ID
07/90                        1   SE
10/90                        2   US, EC
Supervision
03/92                        2   ME, US                              HS             S
10/92                        3   ID, US, WE                           S             S
06/93                        3   ID, US, WE                           S             S
02/94                        3   EC, SE, WE                           S             S
09/94                        3   EC, SE, WE                           S             S
04/97                        2   EC, US                               S             S
11/97                        3   EC, US, ME                           S             S
10/99                        3   ME, PE, SE                           S             S
06/00                        3   EC, PE, SE                           S             S
ICR
08/00                             EC, SE                              S             S
EC - Economist                        ME - Municipal Engineer    US - Urban Specialist
ID - Institutional Development Specialist  SE - Sanitary Engineer  WE - Water Engineer
(b) Staff:
f     Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               108.4                        195.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                     84.7                        171.9
Supervision                              114.3                       267.1
ICR                                        5.0                         17.0
Total                                    312.4                        651.3
FACT Data as of April 1, 1999
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FSector Policies                          O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
S Physical                                O H OSUOM O N O NA
Z Financial                               OH OSUOM ON ONA
z Institutional Development               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
C? Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  Q N  * NA
Gender                            OH OSUOM ON *NA
3 Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
* Private sector development              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                  OH  OSUOM  ON  0 NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
0 Lending                                            OHSOS OLu OHU
? Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
1 Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
2 Preparation                                        OHS *S   O U   O HU
F Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  0  U  O HU
0 Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The following supporting documents are available in the project file:
1. Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n, Informe de cierre del Programa de Desarrollo Territorial,
September 7, 1998.
2. FINDETER, Informe de cierre de proyecto, Componente A, August 1998
3. Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n, Unidad Administrativa Especial de Desarrollo Territorial,
Informe de cierre de proyect, Componente C, August 1998.
4. Instituto Geografico Agustin Codazzi, Informe de cierre de proyecto, Componente D, August 1998.
5. Ministerio de Desarrollo Econ6mico, Direcci6n de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Basico, Informe de
Cumplimiento de Ejecuci6n, Componente E, December 2000.
- 24 -



- 25 -






IBRD 26153
COLOMBIA                                                                                                   %NI Cor,
NIC
Riehmhe@    >          ,                      4 A       i 1VENFI
S> 4/ V/ XOLO  2IVIA
jo          *j r*                          K.
|   <   ,                        ,>                           '     /              E M ro FAs / to                                   NA  L
I,- PA1A~AY
PANA AA                              Mon n                                                                                          1QN
.     )   I f NORTE                                      9      The boundories, colors, denominations
&tV4                                                  anid ay other information shown on
_CDRDOBIA    .MDE                                                                          this mop do not imply, on the part of
The World Bank Group, any judgment
/                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on the legal status of any territoryo
't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
(4ibdo                                                                           a  endorsement o    o   c  a
J                                   bpol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sc ondr,,-
K J'41,1         ~     ~ '0  ,< 7n    0    50   100   150  200  250
0~~~~ V                                                                                                         'B C H A D A
-        EUEVATION ABOVE 1000METERS                     o
O     NATIONAL CAPITAL       1                                                                      |
*     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS,,pERUj'(
-~~~~-  RIVERS                              P~~~~  VE         R     E
CDEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                  ,    T A          ./
- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                         -         =  '                  /          j      /4
'4 78                                               74. tthiLefcg 41
AUGUST 1994



