Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3336 CO
(Municipal Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO GEOGRAFICO AGUSTIN CODAZZI
Dated November 8, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3336 CO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 8, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and INSTITUTO GEOGRAFICO AGUSTIN CODAZZI (IGAC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Colombia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that IGAC agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
IGAC, the proceeds of the loan provided for Part D of the Project under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to IGAC on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS IGAC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. IGAC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part 
D of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and cadastral practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Part D of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, IGAC shall utilize standard bidding documents satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 2.03. IGAC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part D of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. IGAC shall duly perform all its obligations under the IGAC 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, IGAC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the IGAC Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) IGAC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the IGAC Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
IGAC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by IGAC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the IGAC 
Subsidiary Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction to paragraphs (a) and (b) above, IGAC 
shall, not later than November 15 in each year, exchange views with the Bank, jointly 
with the Borrower and FINDETER on the matters referred to, and as provided in, Section 
3.07 of the Loan Agreement.
(d)
IGAC shall carry out any plan of action, prepared by the Borrower 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.06. (a) IGAC shall carry out Part D of the Project in accordance with 
the performance indicators agreed with the Bank as set forth in the letter of even 
date herewith.
Page  3
(b)
IGAC shall, not later than June 30, 1992, implement a system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for improving the control of its unit costs in respect of 
each of its activities.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of IGAC
Section 3.01. IGAC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and cadastral practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. IGAC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, and 
financial practices.
Section 3.03. IGAC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) IGAC shall maintain records and separate accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of
Part D of the Project.
(b)
IGAC shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) for 
each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
standards and auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of IGAC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify IGAC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  4
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For IGAC:
Instituto Geografico Agustin Codazzi
Carrera 30 48-51
Bogota, Colombia
Telex:
45485
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of IGAC may be 
taken or executed by the Director General or such other person or persons as the 
Director General shall designate in writing, and the Director General shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO GEOGRAFICO AGUSTIN CODAZZI
Page  5
By /s/ Jaime Garcia Parra
Authorized Representative
