Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3336 CO
(Municipal Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORRIAL S.A.
Dated November 8, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3336 CO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 8, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORRIAL S.A. (FINDETER).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Colombia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that FINDETER agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
FINDETER, the proceeds of the loan provided for  Part A of the Project under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to FINDETER on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS FINDETER, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) FINDETER declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A and B of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical and public utility practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and FINDETER shall otherwise agree, FINDETER shall select 
Eligible Project Entities and
Subprojects, enter into Participation Agreements, procure and cause to be procured 
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, maintain and cause 
to be maintained records and accounts and have such records and accounts audited, and 
in general carry out the Project activities in accordance with this Agreement, the 
Credit Regulations and the Lending Operating Manual.
(c)
The provisions of this Agreement shall prevail over the provisions of the 
Credit Regulations and the Lending Operating Manual.
(d)
FINDETER shall enter into contractual arrangements (the Participation 
Agreements) with each Financial Intermediary participating in the financing of 
Subprojects under Part A of the
Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(e)
FINDETER shall enter into a Subproject Agreement with each Eligible 
Project Entity and each Sponsor Agency (except in respect of Subprojects for which no 
Subloan is provided to  a
Sponsor Agency) willing to participate in the execution of Sub-projects under Part A 
of the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set 
forth in paragraph II B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(f)
FINDETER shall duly perform all of its obligations under the FINDETER 
Subsidiary Agreement and each Participation Agreement and Subproject Agreement. Except 
as the Bank and FINDETER shall otherwise agree, FINDETER shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving 
the Credit Regulations, the Lending Operating Manual, the FINDETER Subsidiary 
Agreement, a Participation Agreement or a Subproject Agreement, or any provision 
thereof.
(g)
FINDETER shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with a plan 
of action satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.02. (a) FINDETER undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Participating Loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Credit Regulations and in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
FINDETER shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and FINDETER; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of 
Page  3
the Project.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, FINDETER shall utilize, and shall cause the Eligible Project 
Entities to utilize, standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. FINDETER shall carry out or cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of 
Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 2.05. Without limitation to Section 2.04 above, FINDETER shall:
(a)
not later than March 31 of each year, prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
report on the progress of the execution of Parts A and B of the Project during the 
immediately preceding year,
of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonable request, such report to include 
information on amounts committed and disbursed under Subloans, number and type of 
Subloans under preparation  and execution, progress in physical Project execution, 
compliance with the provisions of Subproject Agreements and repayments and arrears 
under Subloans and Participating Loans.
(b)
not later than November 15 each year, exchange views with the Bank, 
jointly with the Borrower and IGAC on the matters referred to, and as provided in, 
Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement.
(c)
carry out any plans of action prepared by the Borrower pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.
Section 2.06. FINDETER undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
Subloans shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) FINDETER shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the FINDETER Subsidiary Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
FINDETER shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by FINDETER of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the FINDETER Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FINDETER shall not 
provide any financing for any investment or activity in an Eligible Sector unless such 
investment or activity
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Credit Regulations.
(b)
FINDETER shall carry out all lending operations, including lending 
operations utilizing funds from third parties administered by FINDETER in any capacity 
such as those under
fiduciary arrangements (administracion fiduciaria), in accordance with the terms and 
conditions set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)
FINDETER shall monitor the participation of the financial intermediaries 
in its operations.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FINDETER
Page  4
Section 3.01. FINDETER shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) FINDETER shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting standards and practices its operations and 
financial condition, including separate accounts for its operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
FINDETER shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above 
and its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and 
related statements, (including a statement of 
sources and applications of 
funds) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FINDETER shall earn, 
for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending December 31, 1990, an annual 
return on its equity, such return to be in accordance with the minimum ratios agreed 
between the Bank and FINDETER.
(b)
By March 30 and by September 30 of each fiscal year, FINDETER shall, on 
the basis of forecasts prepared by FINDETER and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that FINDETER would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) for FINDETER's fiscal years covered by such review, 
FINDETER shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including, without limitation, changes in its lending or financing 
policies) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purpose of this Section and unless the Bank and FINDETER shall 
agree on a different calculation method, the return on FINDETER's equity for any given 
fiscal year shall be calculated as the difference between (i) FINDETER's net income 
before income tax for the fiscal year in question, (as such net income is shown in the 
audited financial statements of FINDETER) divided by one half of the sum of the value 
of FINDETER's equity at the beginning and at the end of the same fiscal year; and (ii) 
the percentage variation of the Borrower's consumer price index during the fiscal year 
in question, as such index is calculated by the Borrower's Departamento
Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica.
(e)
For the purpose of this Section, the term "equity" means the sum of the 
total unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of FINDETER not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
ARTICLE V
Page  5
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of FINDETER 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify FINDETER thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For FINDETER:
Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial
Calle 16 - No. 5-13, piso 7
Bogota, Colombia
Facsimile:
281-1710
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FINDETER may 
be taken or executed by the President or such other person or persons as the President 
shall designate in writing, and the President shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid S. Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORRIAL S.A.
By /s/ Jaime Garcia Parra
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
I. Procedures for Approval of
Subloans; Other Provisions
1.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such Subproject shall have been approved by the Bank and 
such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred and eighty days 
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and 
information required under paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such 
Subloan; or
(b)
the Subloan for such Subproject shall have been a free-limit Subloan for 
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than one hundred and eighty days prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Subloan. For the 
purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Subloan shall be a Subloan for a Subproject 
which estimated total cost shall not exceed $3,000,000 equivalent in the case of 
Subprojects in the urban streets Eligible Sector (as defined in the Credit 
Regulations)
and in the case of multicommunity Subprojects (Proyecto de Obras Multiples) (as 
defined in the Credit Regulations) and $1,000,000 equivalent in the case of 
Subprojects in the remaining Eligible
Sectors, provided, however, that the Subloans for the first four Subprojects in each 
of the urban streets and solid waste Eligible Sectors and the first two sub-projects 
in each of the remaining
Eligible Sectors, submitted by FINDETER to the Bank for financing under the Loan shall 
not be free-limit Subloans, regardless of the cost of such Subprojects.
2.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, FINDETER shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory 
to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Eligible Project Entity or 
Sponsor Agency and an appraisal of the Subproject, including description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization 
of the Subloan; and (iii) such other technical, financial, institutional and economic 
information as the Bank shall reasonably request to ascertain if the Subproject and 
the Eligible Project Entity or Sponsor Agency meet the Subproject selection criteria 
set forth in the Credit Regulations, such application shall be presented to the Bank 
before FINDETER's Board of Directors, or any other of its authorized bodies, shall 
have formally approved such Subloans.
Page  7
(b)
Each request by FINDETER for authorization to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Eligible
Project Entity or Sponsor Agency and the Subproject, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and sufficient 
information for the Bank to
ascertain if the Subproject and the Eligible Project Entity and Sponsor Agency meet 
the selection criteria set forth in the Credit Regulations; (ii) the terms and 
conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization therefor; and (iii) 
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before December 31, 1996.
3.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby FINDETER shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Eligible Project Entity or Sponsor Agency or by other appropriate 
legal means, rights adequate to
protect the interests of the Bank and FINDETER.
4.
Disbursements under a Subloan shall be made to each Eligible Project Entity or 
Sponsor Agency to finance specific expenditures incurred during the execution of the 
Subproject.
II.     Obligations of the Sponsor Agencies under
the Sponsor Agreements and Subproject
Agreements and of the Eligible Project
Entities under the Subproject Agreement
A.
Obligations of the Sponsor Agencies
 
1.
Each Sponsor Agency shall covenant and warrant that the Sub-project to be 
carried out under the Project in a department or Municipality is of importance to its 
economic development and the
social welfare of its inhabitants, and that it will fully support the implementation 
of the Project by cooperating with the respective Eligible Project Entity in the 
execution of such Subproject by
providing, promptly as needed, the funds required to enable such Entity to carry out 
the Subproject and for the operation and maintenance of the facilities and services 
included in such Sub-project as provided in the Sponsors Agreement.
2.
Each Sponsor Agency shall take, or cause its agencies and instrumentalities to 
take, all such action as shall be required to assist the Project Entity in the 
performance of the obligations of such Project Entity set forth in this Schedule.
3.
FINDETER shall have the right to suspend disbursements under any or all Subloans 
made to a Sponsor Agency if such Agency fails to comply with any of its obligations 
under a Subproject Agreement.
B.
Obligations of the Eligible Project Entities
 
1.
Each Project Entity shall carry out the Subproject all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and public utility practices.
2.
In order to assist in the carrying out of a Subproject, each Eligible Project 
Entity shall employ qualified and experienced consultants, such consultants to be 
selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, as provided in Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement; the terms and conditions of each contract with any such consultants, 
which is to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be satisfactory to the 
Bank and FINDETER.
3.
(a)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall, with respect to each Subproject to be 
carried out by such Entity, undertake to insure, or make adequate provision for the 
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to 
Page  8
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be 
payable in a currency freely usable by such Entity to replace or repair such goods.
(b)
Except as FINDETER shall otherwise agree, each Eligible Project Entity 
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used 
exclusively for Subprojects being carried out by such Entity.
4.
(a)
With respect to each Subproject being carried out by an Eligible Project 
Entity, each such Entity shall furnish to FINDETER and, if so requested, make 
available to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, 
reports, contracts documents and construction and procurement schedules for each such 
Subproject, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto.
(b)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall, with respect to each Subproject being 
carried out by such Entity, maintain separate records and procedures adequate to 
record and monitor the progress of each such Subproject (including the cost and the 
benefits to be derived from each such Subproject), to identify the financial resources 
and the goods and services included in the Subproject, and to disclose their use in 
each Subproject.
(c)
Each Eligible Project Entity shall enable the authorized representatives 
of the Bank and FINDETER to visit the facilities and construction sites included in 
each Subproject and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and 
any relevant records and documents in respect of each Subproject.
5.
Each Eligible Project Entity shall maintain a system of monitoring indicators 
satisfactory to FINDETER and the Bank. 
6.
Each Eligible Project Entity shall furnish to FINDETER, two months after each 
semester, a progress report containing all such information as the Bank shall 
reasonably request concerning each Subproject carried out or being carried out by it, 
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits and results to be derived from it, the 
expenditures of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods and services financed out of such 
proceeds, the monitoring indicators and the status of compliance with the provisions 
of the Subloan Agreement and Subproject Agreement.
7.
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than three 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between FINDETER and the Bank, each Eligible Project Entity shall prepare a report 
satisfactory to the Bank and FINDETER on the execution of the Subproject carried out 
by each such Entity.
8.
Each Eligible Project Entity shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its 
financial position, plan its future expansion and conduct its business and 
undertaking, all in accordance with appropriate business, financial and public utility 
practices, and under the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted 
by adequate and competent staff and shall carry out all financial, institutional, 
management and other obligations set forth or referred to in the Subproject Agreement 
in a timely manner.
9.
Each Eligible Project Entity shall: (a) at all times take the necessary steps to 
maintain its existence and its right to carry on operations, and to acquire and retain 
all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful for the 
purposes of complying with its obligations under this Schedule or for the efficient 
conduct of its business and undertaking;
(b)
each Eligible Project Entity shall at all times operate and maintain the 
plants, machinery, equipment and other property owned or operated by it and promptly 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate 
engineering and public utility practices; and
(c)
each Eligible Project Entity shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise 
dispose of any of its property or assets owned or operated by it, if such sale, lease, 
transfer or disposition
would materially and adversely affect the efficient carrying out of the Project.
10.
Each Eligible Project Entity shall make provisions satisfactory to the Bank and 
Page  9
FINDETER for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with sound public utility
practices.
11.
Each Eligible Project Entity shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with appropriate accounting practices consistently applied, its 
operations and financial condition, including records and separate accounts to reflect 
all resources and expenditures with respect to the Sub-project. Such accounts shall be 
audited for each fiscal year in accordance with procedures and by auditors all 
acceptable to the Bank and FINDETER. Each Eligible Project Entity shall furnish to 
FINDETER all information concerning its accounts and financial statements and the 
audits thereof as the Bank or FINDETER shall from time to time reasonably request.
12.
Each Eligible Project Entity shall procure the goods and civil works required 
for Subprojects in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
13.
FINDETER and the Financial Intermediary shall have the right to suspend 
disbursements under any or all Subloans made to an Eligible Project Entity if such 
Entity fails to comply with any of
its obligations under a Subproject Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of FINDETER's Lending Operations
(a)
FINDETER shall only lend to financial institutions which meet the 
following requirements: (i) receive and lend or otherwise invest, on a customary 
basis, voluntary savings from the general public; (ii) are subject to supervision by, 
and in good standing with, the Borrower's Superintendency of Banks; and (iii) have 
been satisfactorily accepted by FINDETER in terms of their financial soundness and 
appropriate management control.
(b)
FINDETER's rediscount rate shall not be lower than DTF plus one and 
one-half (1 1/2) percentage points.
(c)
(i)   The interest rate charged by intermediaries to beneficiaries on 
funds onlent by FINDETER shall be freely agreed between such intermediaries and 
beneficiaries; and (ii) the interest rate referred to in (c) (i) above may be subject 
to an interest rate ceiling provided that, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, such 
ceiling shall, at all times, be set not lower than DTF plus five percentage points and 
that such interest rate ceiling ensures, in the opinion of the Bank, an adequate 
participation of intermediaries in FINDETER's lending operations.
