RESTRICTED
Report No. P-713
FILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PR ESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 4, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTTON AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIBIA
FOR A LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the folloaing report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$2.5 million for a
livestock development project in the Republic of Zambia.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In Mlarch 1968, the Government of Zambia applied for a Bank loan to
help finance a livestock development project. The application was based
on a report prepared for the Government by the staff of the Bank's Agricul-
tural Development Service (ADS). The proposed project was appraised in
October-November 1968.
3.        Formal negotiations took place in Washington in May 1969.   The
Borrower was represented by a delegation led by Mr. E.A. Kashita, Permanent
Secretary of the Minstry of Rural Development. The Zambia Cattle Develop-
ment Limited (ZCDL) was represented by Mr. T.L. Martin, General Manager.
Mr. A. Tweedy attended the negotiations on behalf of Barclays Banlc DCO
(Zambia) which is to participate in financing the proposed project.
4.        The first lending by the Bank in independent Zambia was a road loan
(h69-ZA) made in 1966, which was followed in 1968 by a forestry loan (562-ZA)
and a second road loan (563-ZA), and in April 1969 by an education loan
(592-ZA).  Previously, the Bank made two loans for railways in Northern
Rhodesia (now Zambia) and Southern Rhodesia, and twqo loans for power to the
Central African Power Corporation, jointly owned by Zambia and Southern
Rhodesia. Zambia has since assumed responsibility for its share of these
loans. Each of the pre-independence loans is guaranteed by the United
Kingdom. There have been no IDA operations in Zambia. The following is a
summary statement of Bank loans in Zambia as of April 30, 1969:
(Amount (US$ million)
Loan No. Year    Borrover         Purpose           Bank      Undisbursed
74-NR     1953   Zambia           Railways           1h.o         -
145-RN    1956   Central African Electric power      40.0 2/      -
Power Corp. 1/
197-RN    1958   Zambia 1/    -   Railways            9.5         -
392-RNS   1964   Central African
Power Corp.     Electric power      3.85 2/     -
469-ZA    1966   Zambia           Roads              17.5         8.6
I/ As a result of Loan Assumption Agreements entered into in connection Jith
the dissolution of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland at the erd ofl1'.'3'.
2/ Amoi-unt-guaranteed by Zambia, i.e. cr.ne-half of loan.



(Amount (US$ million)
Loan No.   Year   Borrower         Purpose              Bank    Undisbursed
<62-ZA     1968    Zambia          Forestry              5.3        5.3
503-ZA     1968    Zambia          Roads                10.7        5.9
592-ZA     1969    Zambia          Education            17.4       17.4
Total (less cancellations)                 116.2
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                        23.4
Total now outstanding                       94.8
Amount sold:                  37.6
of which has been repaid    19.0          18.6
Total now held by Bank                      76.2
Total undisbursed                                      37.2
r          Disbursements on outs-tanding loans are proceeding normally.  Since
.'ne 1, 1966, the Central African Power Corporation has been unable to obtain
+the foreign exchange from the Governments of Southern Rhodesia and Zambia for
payments under the 1956 and 1964 loans. Zambia and the United Kingdom have
each made one-half of these payments as guarantor.
6.         Proposals for the financing of a tobacco development project, of a
third highway project, of the expansion of the University of Zambia, and of
an extension to the power installations at Kariba which were financed by
Loan 145-RN of 1956, may be ready for your consideration in FY 1970.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.         Borrower:        Republic of Zambia.
Beneficiary:     Zambia Cattle Development Limited (ZCDL).
Purpose:         To finance the foreign exchange costs of the
development of twelve beef ranches and five
dairy farms, including provision for technical
services.



Amount:                  Various currencies equiva'lent to
US$2.5 million.
Amortization:            In 15 years including a five-year period
of grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning December 15, 1974 and ending
June 15, 1984.
Interest Rate:           6-1/2 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:       3/4 of 1% per annum.
Relending Terms:         The Borrower will relend the proceeds of
the loan to ZCDL on the sane terms and
conditions as the Bank loan.
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:         16 percent.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Livestock Development Project - Zambia"
(pA-lOa, dated Mtay 2,rl 1969) is attached. The project would be the first
stage of Zambia's long-term livestock development program and consists of
the development of twelve beef ranches and five dairy farms, and the pro-
vision of technical services. Ten of the ranches and one of the dairy farms
have been selected and sites for the two remaining ranches totalling approxi-
mately 110,000 acres and for four dairy farms are currently being selected
from a number of sites tentatively identified. Detailed plans for the
development of these ranches and farms will be submitted to the Bank for its
approval. Under the proposed project, finance would be made available for
such investmenits as on-ranch roads, firebreaks, fencing, water supplies,
ranch buildings, stock handling and animal health control facilities, tractor3,
vehicles, and livestock. Funds would also be allocated for technical servrices,
including an artificial insemination program and pasture improvement schemes.
9.        The ranches and dairy farms will be developed and operated by
ZCDL, which is a fully-owned subsidiary of the Government's Agricultural
Development Cornoration, with an authorized capital of $5.6 million equivalent.
ZCDL's main activity is beef ranching. The Company is building up a dairy
operation which diould contribute to its overall cash flow and profitability
in the early years of beef ranch development. ZCDL's Chief Executive Officer
is the General Manager who wiould be responsible, subject to general direction
by the Board of ZCDL, for carrying out the company's functions. Agreement
was reached with ZCDL during negotiations that any appointment to the posi-
tion of ZCDL's General Mlanager should be made only after agreement with
the Bank, and the terms, conditions and qualifications for such position
should be determined in agreement with the Bank. A senior dairy manager auwd



a senior beef ranch manager are also to be appointed in consultation with
the Bank, in view of the importance of competent management for successful
execution of the project. The Board of ZCDL is being reorganized and
strengthened with financial and livestock expertise.
'O.        The project is estimated to cost $5.8 million of which $5.2 million
would be for ranch and farm development, $0.2 million for technical services
and $0.4 million for working capital, the latter financed entirely from local
sources. The proposed Bank loan of $2.5 million would represent the estimated
foreign exchange component and would provide 43 percent of the total project
rost. The balance would be met by the Government (26 percent), the Barclays
Bank DCO in Zambia (21 percent) and ZCDL (10 percent). The proposed Barclays
Bank DCO's loan of $0.8 million equivalent for development expenditures would
be for 15 years including a grace period of 5 years; the interest rate on each
uithdrawal would be 1¼ percent above the prime commercial bank rate in Zambia
icurrently 7 percent), subject to a ceiling of 81¼ percent and a floor of 61¼
percent. Barclays Bank DCO also agreed to supply the working capital needs of
ZCDL as required up to $0.4 million equivalent, with an interest rate of 1-2
percent under prime.
11.        Expenditures of approximately $0.3 million equivalent for beef
ranch and dairy farm development and cattle purchases have taken place since
January 1, 1969. Of the total, 37 percent (about $100,000)would be eligible
for reimbursement under the proposed Bank loan.
.2.        International competitive bidding would be followed for the purchaec
of equipment, including vehicles, water pipes and fencing wire, procured unde
contracts amounting to or exceeding $25,000 equivalent. Contracts for equip-
ment amounting to less than $25,000 and for other physical inputs would be
subject to local competitive bidding. Adequate local representation of inter-
national agricultural equipment firms exists in Zambia to ensure effective
competition. International tendering would not be appropriate for livestock
procurement, as the type and quality of beef and dairy stock suitable for
7ambian conditions can only be obtained from selected areas.
13.        The economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 16
percent. The principal direct benefits resulting from the project would
be an increased production of beef and dairy products, and of improved
breeding stock. At full development, about 14,000 weaners, heifers and
'ulls valued at nearly $1.0 million would be sold annually from project
ranches. From the dairy farms, there would be an estimated increased annuall
rutput of whole milk valued at $0.8 million. The beef and dairy output
from project ranches and farms would partially meet the rising demand for
these products in Zambia.  Estimated foreign exchange savinigs, net of annual.
foreign exchange outlays directly attributable to the project, would amount
to about $1.6 million per year. Additional benefit would be the demonstrat.i'on
of better management practices, improved production and disease control
,eclhniques, as well as practical training of ranch manager and field as:-Is±;,.ltsc.



PART IV - LEGAL INSTRU1flENTS AND AUTHORITY
14.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Zambia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement betwieen the Bank and Zambia Cattle
Development Limited, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section h(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and a draft Resolution are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
15.       The draft Loan and Project Agreements follo- the general pattern
of other agreements used for livestock projects. The Borrow^:er is required
to relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to ZCDL on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan, pursuant to a subsidiary loan agreement satis-
factory to the Bank. It is a condition of disbursements on account of ex-
penditures on any ranch or dairy farm included in the project that satis-
factory evidence must be furnished to the Bank that ZCDL has appropriate
rights of user in respect of the whole parcel of land on which such ranch
or farm is situated (Section 2.05, Loan Agreement). The effectiveness of
the Barclays Bank DCO loan agreement with ZCDL is an additional condition
of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
16.      A report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Zambia"
(AF-81a), dated August 21,1968, was distributed to the Executive Directors
on August 27, 1968.
17.       The Zambian economy is heavily dependent on copper which produces
nearly half of the GDP, two-thirds of government revenues and comprises
over 90 percent of exports.  Zambia's economic prosperity will remain subject
to the movements of copper prices for many years to come. Since Independence
in 1964, copper prices have generally remained high and have more than
offset increases in costs of production and the reduction in output caused
by transport difficulties resulting from the Unilateral Declaration of
Independence of Rhodesia in November 1965.
18.       In the immediate post-Independence and post-UDI period, Zambia
undertook a large investment program designed to reduce her dependence on
Rhodesia, particularly as a source of coal and a channel of transport.   The
Bank has participated in this program with two loans for highway construct..on.
In addition, Zambia has embarked upon an extensive educational expansion to
remedy the shortage of skilled manpowrer, for wThich the Bank has also made a
loan. Zambia is endeavcring to diversify its economy by expanding industries
to produce substitutes for imports, such as cement, timber products and
metal products. There are also some favorable prospects for agricultural
development. Tobacco, poultry and confectionery groundnuts have good export
potontial.  Beef and dairy products, with which the present project is
concerned, as well as cotton and sugar are import substitutes which have



- 6 -
substantial opportunities for growth. The Zambian Government is pursuing
a policy of encouraging indigenous enterprise in the agricultural, industrial
and trading sectors and is carrying out, with the cooperation of the mining
companies, a controlled but fairly rapid process of Zambianisation of the work
force in the mining industry. Foreign investment is welcomed but limitation on
remission of dividends is imposed in order to encourage reinvestment of pro-its-
19.       Zambia's creditworthiness is basically dependent on the output
and price of copper.  Prices are at present somewhat higher than the expected
long-term equilibrium level, and the Government recognizes that its investmernt
program and external borrowing would have to be adjusted to any decline in
copper prices. Zambia's exbernal debt in June 16bb was US$23? million
equivalent, and service on this debt represents only 3.5 percent of foreign
exchange earnings.  This relatively small debt, combined with Zambia's basic
economic strength and long-range growth potential, justifies her borrowing
abroad on conventional terms to help finance development projects.
PART VI- COIYPLIANCE ITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply writh the Articles
of Agreement of the Banl.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
21.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
June 4, 1969



