RETURNq TO
REPORTS        DE                                                R EST RI CT ED
WITHIN           L      U   1                               Report No. PA-10*
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZAMBIA
May Z7, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1                    =  Zambia Kwacha 0. 714
Zambia Kwacha 1          = US$ 1. 40
Zambia Kwacha 1          =  Ngwee 100
Zambia Kwacha 1, 000, 000   US$ 1, 400, 000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - IMPERIAL SYSTEM
1 Acre                   =  0.405 Hectares
1 Imperial Gallon        =  4. 7 Liters
1 Square Mile               2. 590 Square Kilometers
1 Mile                   =  1. 609 Kilometers
1 Pound                  =  0. 453 Kilograms
1 Long Ton               =  1. 016 Metric Tons
1 Short Ton                 0. 907 Metric Tons
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC                      - Agricultural Development Corporation
CSB                      _  Cold Storage Board
DCO                      _ Dominion Colonial and Overseas
DPB                      - Dairy Produce Board
ZCDL                     _  Zambia Cattle Development Limited



ZAMBIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................            1
II. BACKGROUND .................,                                        1
A.    General   .........     ................................     1
B.   The Beef and Dairy Cattle Industry     ....     ..........    2
C.   Animal Health    ...................................          4
D.   Agricultural ServiCLes   ...........................          5
E.   Government Policy for Livestock Development        .....      6
III.   THE PROJECT ...................,                                   8
A.    Project Description ..............................           8
B.   Project Areas and Land Tenure     ....     .................  8
C.   Detailed Features of Beef Ranch and Dairy Farm
Developments   .................................          9
D.    Cost Estimates   ..................................         11
E.   Financing   .......................................          12
F.   Procurement    .....................................         14
G.   Disbursements and Auditing     ......................        14
H.   Corporate Structure and Management     ....    ..........    15
I.   Technical Services and Training     ....     .............   17
IV.   MARKETS AND PRICES    ...................................         18
V.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION    ....      ..............  19
VI.    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS    ......................         20
This appraisal report was prepared by Messrs. J. Edwards and A. Schumacher
(IBRD) and C. Chisholm (Livestock Consultant).



-2-
A M?IEXES
1.  IThe Cattle Industry
2.   Marketing of Beef and Milk
3.   The Grazier Scheme
4.   Government Policies for Livestock Development
5.   Project Technical Aspects:   Maize Feeding, Pasture Tmprovements
and Artificial Tnsemination
6.   Beef and Dairy Herd Projections
Table 1 - Breeding/leaning Ranches (Consolidated)
Table 2 - Bull Stud Ranch
Table 3 - Breeding/Fattening Ranches (Consolidated)
Table 4 - Breeding/Weaning Ranches (Model)
Table 5 - Dairy Farm (Model)
Table 6 - Gravetts Dairy Farm
7.   Beef Ranch and Dairy Farm Acreages
8.   Operating Costs
Table 1 - Beef Ranches
Table 2 - Dairy Farms
9.   Project Tnvestments
Table 1 - Investmen-t Categories
Table 2 - Artificial Insemination - Cost Estimates
Table 3 - Pasture Development Program
Table 4 - Phasing
10.   Corporate Organization of the Agricultural Development Corporation
and its Subsidiary, the Zambia Cattle Development Limited
Chart 1 - Project Organizational Chart
11.   Zambia Cattle Development Limited - Financial Projections
Table 1 - Cash Flowy
Table 2 - Pro-Yorma Balance Sheets, 1969-1975
12.   Economic and Financial Return Calculations
13.   Production Benefits
MAPS
1.   The Project Areas



ZAMBIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Zambia has requested a loan to help finance
production of beef and milk by the development of twelve beef ranches and
five dairy farms. Nine of the beef ranches would concentrate upon ma&cimizing
numbers and quality of weaners for sale to Zambian tarmers. Two ranches
would only produce fat steers and the remaining one vould specialize in
bull-breeding. The dairy farms, besides their milk output, vould feed out
their steer calves for beef production.
ii.       Finance would be provided for on-ranch roads, firebreaks, fencing,
buildings, machinery and water supplies as well as for breeding stock in the
early stages. Semen for both beef and dairy herds would be imported. Funds
would be included for technical services.
iii.      The Project is estimated to cost about US$5.8 million of which
US$5.2 million would be for ranch and farm development, US$0.2 million for
technical services and US$0.4 million for working capital, the latter fi-
nanced entirely from local sources. The proposed IBRD loan of US$2.5 million
would provide about 43% of the total Project cost and would cover in full
the foreign exchange component. The remaining 57% of the Project coat would
be met by Government, the Zambia branch of Barclays DCO, and the Zambia Cattle
Development Ltd. (ZCDL).
iv.       The proceeds of the IBRD loan would be lent by Government to the
ZCDL. This Company, wholly owned by Government, would operate the ranches
and farms and would administer the Project.
V.        The Project is sound and would yield satisfactory returns to ZCDL
(12%) and the national economy (16%). Subject to obtaining certain assur-
ances during negotiations, the Project is suitable for a loan of US$2.5 mil-
lion repayable over 15 years including five years of grace. The Borrower
would be she Government of Zambia. The Project is intended to be the first
major stage of Zambia's national program of livestock development.






ZAMBIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Zambia has requested a loan to help finance the
development and expansion of beef and milk production. In 1964 the Ministry
of Rural Development and the Cold Storage Board (CSB) began the development
of a number of ranches and dairy farms, and in 1966 approached the Indus-
trial Development Corporation to acquire and run, them. Government then
decided to create the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), owned
entirely by Government, to exploit new projects in agriculture. ADC in turn
formed a wholly owned subsidiary company, Zambia Cattle Development Limited
(ZCDL) to take over and develop a number of beef and dairy operations previous-
ly run by Government. These included the Ministry and CSB ranches offered
earlier to the Industrial Development Corporation. During this period, the
Agricultural Developient Service (ADS), an affiliate of the IBRD's Permanent
Mission in Eastern Africa (PMEA), was requested to study the feasibility of
operating these ranches and farms as commercial operations. Its report was
presented early in 1968. PMEA organized a follow-up preparation mission
in June 1968. The Project was appraised in October/November 1968 by a mission
consisting of Messrs. J. Edwards and A. Schumacher (IBRD) and Messrs. C.
Chisholm and G. Kahl (Consultants). As explained in paras. 3.07 and 3.08 of
the report, the Project as submitted was reformulated and somewhat expanded
in the course of appraisal vith the agreement of the Zambian authorities.
This reformulation and expansion of ZCDL's development program will enable
the company's operations to be closely integrated into the national program
of livestock development (Annex 4).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Only about 4 million Zambians inhabit a country which is almost
the combined size of France and Germany. Although consumption levels of
beef and milk are low, there is a shortage of both. Imports of one-third
of present needs of these products are required at an annual cost of US$8
million equivalent. The population grows at 3% per annum - it has doubled
s:Lnce 1940 - and the demand for beef and milk is increasing in the industrial
and urban centers of the country, especially in the "copper-belt" where wages
are high.
2.02      Zambia is a landlocked country.   It is 600 miles from the sea at
Beira, Mozambique and 1,000 from Dar es Salaom, Tanzania. Altitude ranges
from 3,000 to 4,000 feet. The topography over large areas is slightly un-
dulating. There are three distinct seasons: a dry cool period begins in
April and is followed by a dry hot spell from July until early November
w-lth a wet season up to March.



-2-
2.03      There are wide differences between the productivity and income of
farmers. These are low among the Zambian farmers living in widely scattered
tribal areas of the country, and higher - close to western levels - for the
much smaller numbers of non-Africans farming along the 'line of rail' 1/.
Although agriculture contributes less than 10% of GDP, 80% of the population
derives its livelihood from the land. By contrast, almost 50% of GDP is
derived from mining, mainly copper. As a result of the dominance of the
copper industry, an extended decline in the copper price would have serious
consequences for the economy and affect its ability to pay for imports.
Agricultural exports in 1967 accounted for about 3% of all exports whereas
agricultural imports were about 4% of all imports. Annual earned income
varies greatly according to occupation, being highest for mining (US$1,240
equivalent) and lovest for agriculture (US$246 equivalent). The latter,
although it compares favorably with other East African countries, could be
brought closer to non-farm earnings within Zambia with the increasing devel-
opment of the agricultural sector.
B. The Beef and Dairy Cattle Industry 2/
The Beef Sub-Sector
2.04      There are approximately 1.2 million cattle in Zambia beef-producing
herds. The great majority - 1.1 million - are owned by traditional African
farmers and their productivity is low. Slaughter cattle offtake from this
sector is about 3-4% annually compared vith 17-18% from the commercial herds
of European farmers in vhich the balance of the country's beef cattle are
found. The contribution from each source is therefore:
Number
Cattle         Commercially
Source                        Numbers        Slaughtered
Traditional                   1,085,000          43,4ao
Commercial                      130,000         22,750
The indigenous breeds - Tonga, Barotse and Angoni - are well adapted to their
environment and cross productively with exotic breeds.   Of the latter,. the
Africander, pure and crossed, accounts for 90% of the "blood" of beef herds
in the commercial sector. In the last 10 years, this sector has used in-
creasingly bul:Ls and semen of the Hereford, Boran, Brahman, South Devon and
Charolais breeds.
1/   The 'line of rail' describes the land running along both sides of the
railway from the 'copper-belt' in the North to Livingstone in the South.
2/   Annex 1, The Cattle Industry, gives further detail.



-3-
2.05      Communal grazing is characteristic of the traditional sector of
the industry. Steers reach slaughter age at 5 to 7 years. Fenced grazing is
typical of the comme*cial sector and cattle are often fed on maize for up to
120 days to reach sll'kughter age at 2½ years.  Exceptionally, on mc,re in-
tensive maize feeding, they may be killed at 15 months in sharp contrast to
the extensive beef production system prevailing in Eastern Africa.
2.06      Beef is in short supply in Zambia even at the current low annual
consumption level of 12 lb per person compared to 20 lb per person in East
Africa. About two-thirds of total requirements of 100,000 carcasses annually
have been met from Zambian sources and the remainder from imports 1/. The
Govrernment has estimated (taking into account increases in population and
incomes) that internal consumption will rise about 8% per year and will call
for a supply of 165,000 carcasses in 1975 and as many as 300,000 by 1985.
Most of this increase will have to come from greater imports - perhaps 80,000
carcasses in 1975 and 160,000 by 1985. National production schemes, however
strongly supported, cannot match such a steep rise in demand. The cost in
foreign exchange at current prices of these imports of beef, now running at
US$6.0 million, may rise to US$12.0 million by 1975 and US$25.0 million by
1985.
2.07      The marketing of beef as well as feeder steers 2/ and breeding
cattle have developed rapidly since 1964 and, with the firm market conditions
now existing, is likely to gain further momentum. At the center is the CSB
which has played a major role in the stabilization and development of the
livestock industry. Besides being responsible for 60% of the slaughtering
of home-produced beef, it has been importing increasing supplies (as live
cattle and carcass beef) to meet rising demand. The CSB does not retail
beef but it has managed well the distribution, throagh butchers, of supplies
for national consumption. Butchers also buy cattle from ranchers privately
for retail sales. Butcher purchases have amounted to 17,000 head annually
(25% of cattle slaughtered) in recent years. Annex 2 gives further detail on
beef marketing.
The Dairy Sub-Sector
2.08      Compared with the national beef herd, the national dairy herd is
small, comprising about 10,000 cows of milking age. All are owned by
European farmers on land along the 'line of rail'. Apart from eight herds
in the Southern Zambia area, commercial milk production does not exist ex-
cept in this area. Numbers of producers supplying milk to the Dairy Produce
Board (DPB) declined from 140 in 1962 to 89 in 1968. However, over this
period the size of herds increased (from 70 to 100 milking cows on average)
so that numbers of cows in milk were not greatly affected and annual sales
per herd increased from 20,9700 gallons to 42,700 gallons. Productivity is
1/   Zambia carcasses average about 400 lbs cold dressed weight.  Imported
carcasses are somewhat heavier, averaging 450 lbs cold dressed weight.
2/   Castrated males varying in age from 8 months to 2½ years.



-'4-
best in Zambia's 'maize belt' running from Kabwe in the North to Mazabuku
in the South. In the copper-belt area it is less profitable because of
poorer soil and higher labor and feed costs. Milk production is based on the
feeding of home-grown maize and maize silage plus pasture in season supple-
mented by purchased cotton seed cake, groundnut cake and mineral supplements.
Average annual milk yields are about 600 gallons/cow in most Friesian herds
wbich is somewhat higher than average yields from similar grades of cows in
Kenya and Uganda, but lower than average yields of nearly 1,000 gallons from
Friesian in the U.K. However, some better managed herds attain up to 1,000
gallons/per cow per year. A small number of commercial dairy farmers have
started dairy steer fattening programs - a profitable operation with the
higher beef price levels prevailing in Zambia since early in 1968.
2.09      Until 1965, supplies of fresh milk were in surplus at certain times
of the year and were used by the DPB to make butter and cheese. The Cheap
Milk Scheme, by which milk is subsidized 25% to low-income consumers in
urban areas, altered this radically after its introduction in 1965. From
a virtually non-existent demand from these consumers (800 gallons/day) sales
grew to 8,500 gallons/day, whereas the higher income consumers maintained
their demand at 6,000 gallons/day. As a result, milk has had to be recons-
tituted from imported ingredients. In this form it accounts, at present,
for 32% of total annual consumption. The demand for milk, like the demand
for beef, will probably continue to grow as the population increases and
purchasing power improves.
2.10      The DPB is supposed to have sales coverage over all Zambia, but
in practice, its marketing activities, both at factory and retail level, are
confined to the 'line of rail' area and its 800,000 inhabitants. A new milk
processing factory is being constructed in Lusaka with a starting (one shift)
capacity of 16,000 gallons/day. An ultra high temperature pasteurizing
process will be used to achieve longer milk life. The three million inha-
bitants living in the rural areas, who receive little milk at the present
time, will benefit from this type of milk.
C. Animal Health
2.11      ZambLa has been free for many years from the major diseases of
Foot-and-Mouth, Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia and Rinderpest.    It is al-
most completely free from East Coast Fever. The risk of, introduction of East
Coast Fever, is controlled by means of a ban imposed by Covernment on the in-
ternal movement of live cattle.   This ban prohibits the movement of cattle
into the South from areas North of the 12   line of latitude and into the West
from the! area east of the Luangwa River (see Map 1). Other diseases (tick
borne aAd otherwise) which exist in the country n)ay be controlled by good,
ranch management and hygiene. Cattle are not kept in Zambia's diminishing
tsetse fly are-3s and loBses from trypanosomiasis in contiguous zones may be
reduced by prophylactic treastment.
2.12      The main cause of low productivity in the traditional sector is
poor nutrition which results in a low calving rate and a high death rate



among calves, before they reach one year of age. Maintaining herd numbers is
difficult under such conditions. Adult mortality is 2% to 3%. Deficiencies
of minerals such as cobalt, iron and phosphorus exist in several parts of the
country. Cattle, grazing depleted pastures in the long dry season, also
suffer a severe defi-iency of protein.  Both conditions may be leusened by
improved management consisting in the feeding of a compound of urea and
minerals for about 210 days.
D. Agricultural Services
2.13      The Ministry of Rural Development has four departments relevant
to the Project: Agriculture, Marketing, Veterinary Services and Lands.
The Department of Lands issues leases on state land and is responsible for
alienating trust and reserve lands. The Ministry also has responsibility
for a number of important Boards dealing with marketing of grain, tobacco,
beef and milk 1/. The Ministry's Agricultural tepartment runs the extension
staff including the animal husbandry personnel.
2.14      The research program for livestock and pasture development which,
until Independence, was centered in Salisbury, Southern Rhodesia, is now a
responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development and its Agriculture
Research Council. The Animal fiusbandry Central Research Station at Mazabuku
contains experimental herds of all indigenous and exotic breeds kept in the
country. Experiments with these are in progress and should yield information
of value to Zambia's developing cattle industry. The center is also used
to performance test young bulls (140 a year) for their growth rates under
Zambian conditions and provides facilities for producers who use artificial
insemination - mainly commercial farmers - for beef and dairy cattle breeding.
The Center imports and distributes to producers frozen semen from the U.K.,
Kenya and the U.S.A.
2.15      Education and training facilities for the livestock industry are
still limited. As there is no degree course in Veterinary Science or
Agriculture at the University, all professional staff must be trained abroad.
However, diploma and certificate level courses are provided for by the
Natural Resources Development College and the Masabuka Veterinary Training
School. From the annual output of 15 graduates in Animal Management from
the Development College, it will be possible to select qualified assistant
ranch managers for Project ranches who can eventually be promoted to full-
time management responsibilities. The College of Agriculture (Monze) pro-
vides courses for extension workers in Animal Husbandry at the certificate
level.
2.16      The agricultural sector will require the services of non-Zambian
professional and technical staff for some years to come. The professional
1/   For a description of the operations of the Cold Storage Board (beef)
and the Dairy Produce Board (milk) see Annex 2.



- 6 -
staff of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services comprises 24 non-
Zambians and 2 Zambians despite efforts to increase numbers in the latter
category 1/. The limited availability of qualified Zambians is most acute
in the fields of education, planning and research. The necessary combination
of commercial experience and professional skills required by those running
large development projects and commodity boards is at a premium.
2.17      Credit for the agricultural sector and livestock industry is
provided by the Credit Organization of Zambia (Government owned) and by the
commercial banks operating in Zambia. The Credit Organization of Zambia
recently absorbed the Land Bank, thereby giving it facilities to lend
medium- and long-term as well as seasonally to sub-borrowers. However,
this Organization has some staffing and organizational problems and has
recently experienced problems in collecting its seasonal loans in rural
areas. It is likely to be some years before it can become an effective
agricultural credit institution. The commercial banks have supplied the
bulk of the short-term credit to agriculture. Most have been reluctant to
extend medium-term development credit. Recently, though, Barclays Bank
DCO appointed an agricultural development adviser and is now preparing to
provide medium-term credit for the livestock industry, to qualified Zambian
farmers and viable grazing associations. The principal source of livestock
credit is provided through the Grazier Scheme currently run by the CSB.
Some 52,000 breeding cows and store cattle worth US$3 million equivalent
are now fattened and bred by the local ranching sector under this Scheme
(Annex 3).
E. Government Policies for Livestock Development
2.18      Government investment in livestock development has been on a
small scale, being only one-half of 1% of total development expenditure of
US$458 million equivalent (1966-1968). It is now realized that this is in-
adequate and an expanded program is being embarked upon by the Ministry of
Rural Development (Annex 4). Perhaps the most important step taken in
1968 was the increase of 38% in the minimum price for beef to the Zambian
producer to bring this closer to the price of imported beef. Government
guarantees minimum prices, in three quality grades, to the producer and
these are the prices paid by the CSB. Butchers buying privately offer as
much as 10-20% above this and provide very effective competition for the
1/   The Department of Veterinary Services has an establishment of 16
professional veterinarians (including 2 Zambians) and numbers of Zambian
field staff in support totalling about 240 in grades ranging from senior
veterinary assistants to tsetse control orderlies. The field staff of
the Animal Husbandry e'tension service consists of 10 provincial officers
and senior technical officers, all non-Zambians, as well as 50-60
Zambians as technical and agricultural assistants.



-7-
CSB as vell as being able to be very selective in the cattle they purchase.
Although Government also attempts to fix a maximum retail price in urban
areas, this is difficult to control because of the many different values of
the variety of cuts and joints in a carcass.
2.15      In late 1968, a National Livestock Development Group was cr'ated
by the Ministry of Rural Development to bring together the many organizations
in Government, business and research concerned with developing the, cattle
industry. The Assistant Secretary, Ministry of Rural Development, is Chairman
and he reports directly to his Permanent Secretary 1/. The National Live-
stock Development Group has no independent financial or policy authority.
It is comprised mainly of civil servants of the Ministry of Ruixal Development
meeting regularly in Ministry offices. Its current functions Lre to coor-
dinate existing programs for livestock production, marketing, research, ex-
tension and education, to prepare a medium-term livestock development program
for the beef and dairy industries and to consider if parts of this program
may be eligible for local and/or international funding. Plans being consid-
ered by this Group include technical and financial encouragement to emergent
Zambian ranchers, grazier associations and cattle cooperatives with the
objective of placing 5% (60,000 cattle) of the traditional herd under commer-
cial management within 10-15 years. Government also intends to extend
dairy production in remote rural areas by creating 40-cow herds.   Current
thinking by ADC is that these dairy herds would be owned and managed by a
separate subsidiary of ADC. The market would comprise mainly schools, hos-
pitals and the staff and families of local and regional provincial adminis-
trative officers.
2.20      However, any long term plan to tap the considerable cattle reserves
of the traditional areas depends for its success on changes, currently being
considered, in prevailing land tenure systems. Only 6% of the land area of
Zambia can be legally alienated with freehold or leasehold title. This
category of land is referred to as state land, which is either in the hands
of Government or allocated by Government to individuals on long-term leases
or sold straight freehold. The remainder (94%) is still operated under re-
serve and trust land legislation. These latter cat&gories are administered
under traditional and tribal land-use rules in which grazing rights are
normally communal. Government recognized this problem soon after Independence
in 1964 and appointed a Commission to report to the Cabinet with recommen-
dations. The Report, issued in August 1967, concluded that freehold or lease-
hold titles should be granted for agricultural land in the reserve and trust
areas to those now occupying their lands under customary tribal rules.
1/   Principal members of the Group include the Chairmen of the Commercial
Farmers Bureau (a rancher), the directors of the Ministry's Veterinary,
Animal Husbandry and Agricultural Projects Services, the General Manager,
ZCDL, and the head of the Cattle Department of the Cold Storage Board.
There ELre representatives also of the Government Departments of Planning
and Cooperatives and of the Agricultural Research Council and its
Research stations at Mt. Mkulu and Mazabuku.



- 8 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The Project includes the development of 12 beef cattle ranches and
5 dairy farms under the management of Zambia Cattle Development Ltd. (ZCDL).
It would support ZCDL's livestock development program and would comprise
the first major stage of Zambia's national program of livestock development.
Because of the need for fqeder stock by existing producers, both in the
commercial and traditional sectors, emphasis would be on producing weaner
steers for sale from 12 to 24 months of age on the company's beef ranches.
The dairy farms would produce milk as well as beef from intensively fattened
dairy steer calves.
3.02      In addition, the Project would include limited pilot pasture prov-
ing trials (100 acres on each of the ranches) and a 50-acre selected legume
seed multiplication plot to be located on one of the beef ranches. To supple-
ment the numbers of quality bull stock in Zambia which are in short supply,
frozen semen of suitable breeds would be imported for use in the company beef
and dairy herds. The purchase of breeding cows and heifers during the devel-
opment years of the Project as well as initial working capital would be in-
cluded under the ProJect. The Project would also provide for technical
services. On-ranch investments would be spread over 5 years, phased with the
annual availability of breeding stock for purchase.
3.03      As a complement to the Project, the National Livestock Development
Group would prepare plans for the technical and financial encouragement of
emergent Zambian farmers, grazier associations and cattle cooperatives (para.
2.19). These activities would be undertaken with technical assistance funded
from proceeds of the proposed loan. The work of this Group should provide the
basis for a broader scope second stage of Zambian livestock development.
B. Project Areas and Land Tenure
The Project Areas
3.04      The beef ranches and dairy farms comprising the Project are
spread throughout Zambia (see Map I). The climate in the ranching areas is
sub-tropical vith annual average rainfalls varying from 30" in Southern
Province to 530' in Northern Province. Most of these gains fall between
November and April. Temperatures range from about 64 F in the cool season
to 95 F in summer. Most of the ranches and dairy farms are in gently un-
dulating country. About 80% of the soil is light granite sand (sand veldt)
and 20% is broad shallow river flood plains referred to locally as "dambos",
containing impeded drainage of gray clay looms and peat. The sand veldt
areas carry about a 60% higl and lov tree cover. The predominant grass in
the sand veldt area is a thin cover of Hyparrhenia, an indigenous grass of



- 9 -
moderate nutritional value. Most of the Project ranches are subject to
annual bushfires, which can reduce ranch carrlying capacity up to 30%. This
hazard has been allowed for in estimating rarch stocking rates.
Land Tenure
3.05      Seven of the existing nine beef cattle ranches and Gravetts dairy
farx are located on state land. Government is in the process of granting
les,.sehold titles to the ZCDL for these properties. ZCDL has now surveyed a
number of suitable areas on state land for the location of the four other
dairy farms and the two additional 55,000 acre breeding/weaning ranches
allowe4 for in the P oject (paras. 3.07 and 3.08).   Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that Government would submit certified documentation that
each of the Project ranches and dairy farms on state land included in the Pro-
ject is covered by a 99 year leasehold title prior to requesting disbursement
of loan funds for that particular ranch or dairy farm.
3.06      Two existing Project beef ranches, Solwezi and Chishinga, are on
trust land. Under the Trust Land Ordinance of 1961, authority over the
rights of occupancy on trust land is vested in the President who has author-
ized the Commissioner of Lands to make and execute disposition of trust land.
All the land comprising Chishinga and Solwezi ranches is empty and the Attor-
ney General saw no problem in granting ZCDL 99 year rights of occupancy for
these ranches. Nevertheless, assurances were obtained from Government that
such rights of occupancy would be issued to ZCDL and that certified documen-
tation would be received in the IBRD attesting to these rights prior to ZCDL
requesting disbursement of loan funds for these two ranches.
C. Detailed Features of Beef Ranch and Dairy Farm Developments 1/
Selection of Ranches and Dairy Farms
3.07      The loan request originally submitted by Government proposed a
financial program for the further development of nine beef ranches and two
dairy farms. Development work on these ranches and farms has been started
by Government. Government selected the sites for these ranches and dairies
with a view to providing milk to urban areas, beef to deficit meat areas and
breeding stock and feeder steers for fattening to existing and future beef
ranchers. In view of the availability of breeding stock and in light of the
strong demand for weaner stock, the Project was expanded to include two
additional breeding/weaning beef ranches 2/. Due to the shortage of improved
1/   Annex 5 gives further details on technical aspects of the Project.
2/   If demand for weaner steers and heifers slackened for any reason in the
foreseeable future, ZCDL would have no difficulty, in light of suitable
empty veldt available near its ranches, in grass fattening these weaners
to slaughter age.



- 10 -
breeding bulls in Zambia, Government requested the inclusion of a bull stud
ranch located at Monze in the Project during the visit of the appraisal
mission. Seven breeding/weaning ranches and two breeding/fattening ranches
already exist and are operated by ZCDL (Annex 6 Tables 1-3). Sites for two
additional breeding/weaning ranches of approximately 55,000 acres are currently
being selected from a number of sites tentatively identified (Annex 6 Table
4).
3.08      Two dairy farms, Kafubu and Gravetts, were originally proposed for
inclusion in the Project. Kafubu is located 32 miles south of Kitwe in
Nortbern Zambia. Gravetts is close to Lusaka. Because of the high costs
of development and production on the Kafubu (8,800 acres) dairy farm proposed
by Government, it was dropped from the proposal in agreement with Government.
It would be replaced with four economic sized units of 2,500 acres each (Annex
6 Table 5). Thus, five dairy farms, including Gravetts, which remains in the
Project, would be developed under the Project. Sites for the four other dairy
farms mentioned above are being selected from a list of eight "line of rail"
locations in Central and Southern provinces submitted to ZCDL by the Ministry
of Rural Development. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
ZCDL would submit to the IBRD for final review and approval its plans for the
development of four dairy farms and two beef breeding/weaning ranches no later
than 6 months from date of signing.
Detailed Features (Annex 7)
3.09      The typical Project breeding/weaning ranch would be about 50,000
acres, carrying an adult herd before development of about 1,400 head, buil.ding
up to about 5,000 head after 8 years at a stocking rate of 1 animal unit to
10 acres. This typical ranch (of which there would be 9) would produce about
1,000 weaner steers for fattening and 500 surplus heifera3 for sale annually
to the national livestock sector.
3.10      The two Project breeding/fattening ranches are located in areas
where movement of cattle to other regions is restricted by veterinory autho-
rities. Each is about 110,000 acres, carrying an adult herd before develop-
ment of 1,500 head, building up to a 6,000 head when totally stocked at atout
the sevsnth year.  These ranches would each market annually about 800 heac of
grass-fattened 3 to 4 year old slaughter steers, as well as 300 surplus weaner
heifers for brceding. At full production these ranches would carry one animal
unit on fifteen' acres. See Annex 8 Table 1 for annual operating costs.
3.11      Specialized bull breeding would be organized as a service to Project
beef ranches and would later alE o be available to interested beef ranchers.
A suitable bull breeding ranch df some 20,000 acres carrying one animal unit
on seven acres has been selected near Monze in the Southern Province (see Map)
for this purpose. Fully developed, this ranch will have about 500 improved
bulls available for use on Project ranches and for sale to local ranchers to
upgrade their herds. A herd of 1,300 stud breeding cows will be maintained
on this ranch.



- 11 -
3.12      The existing Project dairy farm, Gravetts (mentioned in para. 3.08),
is located some 8 miles south cof Lusaka. The farm comprises about 1,500
acres. Maximum use is to be made of farm grown fodder crops, temporary leys
and the natural veldt. About 200 acres is planted in maizO each year. A
herd of about 400 cows would be kept. At full development, this farm should
provide some 196,000 gallons of milk annually, plus 155 fat yearling steers
for slaughter.
3.13      There would be four other Project dairy farms with an average size
of 3,500 acres which would be operated by experienced dairy mahagers under
ZCDL direction. Much of the feed requirements (maize and maize silage) would
be grown on the farm for milk production as well as for rearing and feeding
young steer calves through to slaughter at an estimated 12 to 14 months of
age. These Project dairy farms would be intensively developed and at full
development, year 7, would produce 280,000 gallons per annum of milk and
about 190 fat yearli9g steers for slaughter. This intensity of production
would only be achieved if a high level of management is maintained. The
scale of the Project dairy farm operations is suitable for company type manage-
ment control only and would not be considered as a model for development of
individual dairy farms suitable for Zambian producers.   See Annex 8 Table 2
for annual operating costs.
On-Ranch Improvements
3.14      On-ranch improvements for the beef cattle operations would include
roads, firebreaks, fencing, water facilities, stock handling and animal health
control facilities, tractors, vehicles, ranch buildings and radio communi-
cations equipment. On the dairy farms, silage pits, milking equipment, land
clearance, cooling facilities and grain storage bins would be included, in
addition to the type of equipment and facilities provided above for the beef
cattle operations. In addition, funds for an artificial insemination program
and a pasture development program would be provided (see Annex 9 Tables 1, 2
and 3 for details of the on-ranch and farm investments, artificial insemination
program and pasture development plan respectively).
D. Cost Estimates
3.15      The total investment proposed under the Project, equivalent to
US$5.8 million, is detailed in Annex 9 and briefly summarized below by major
investment categories. Cost estimates are based on prices prevailing in
Zambia. A contingency provision of about 10% is included to cover possible
unforeseen costs. The foreign exchange component is about US$2.5 million,
roughly 43% of the estimated Project cost. About 70% of the proposed in-
vestments would be for development of beef cattle operations, the remaining
30% for the dairy farm component. The total Project cost estimates are as
follows:



- 12 -
Total Project Cost 1/
Category                 Local    Foreign    Total     Local    Foreign   Total
- - - (K '00)… - - - - -      - (US$'000 EquivalentT -
Development Capital
Physical Inputs            423   1,115    1,538        592    1,561      2,153
Livestock Purchases     1,413      243    1,656      1,978      340     2,318
Pasture Improvement
Program                   38      50       88         53       70       123
Contingencies             170      150      320        238      210        448
Subtotal        2,o44   1,558     3,602      2,861    2,181     5,042
Technical Services            -      147      147         -       206        206
Artificial Insemination       -       82       82         -       114        114
Working Capital              300     -        300        420      -          420
Subtotal          300      229      529        420      320        740
Grand Total        2,344    1,7B     4,131      3,281    2,501      5 782
l/   See Annex 9 Table 1 for details.
E. Financing
3.16      The proposed IBRD loan of $2.5 million would cover 43% of total
estimated Project cost with Barclay's Bank, DCO lending 21% and ZCDL providing
10%. The Government vould make available the remainder of the Project's
financial requirements and would receive equity shares in return for funds
it provides ZCDL under the Project. Work on beef ranch and dairy farm dev-
elopment and cattle purchases costing in all approximately $300,000 have taken
place since January 1, 1969 (when ZCDL took over from Government) and have
been paid from Government sources. Of the total, 37% (approximately $110,000)
would be eligible for reimburse4ent under the proposed IBRD loan.    The project
cost of US$ 5.8 million would be financed as follows:



- 13 -
Government   ZCDL     Barclays DCO   IBPD      Total
Category            Amount     %          Amount     % Amount % Amount     %
- - - (US$ Million Equivalent)--
Development
Expenditure
I. Equipment in-
cluding vehicles,
water pipes,
fencing wire 1/    -    -    -   -      -      -    0.5 100     0.5  100
II. Technical Services -     -    -   -      -      -    0.2 100     0.2  100
III. Artificial
Insemination      -     -    -   -      -      -    0.1 100     0.1  100
IV. Other Devel-
opment Expen-
ditures          1.5    33  o.6  13    0.8    17    1.7   37    4.6  100
Working Capital          _    -    -   -     0.4    100          -    o0.4  100
Total Project Costs2/   1.5   26  o.6  10    1.2     21    2.5  43    5.8  100
1/   This category comprises all goods purchased for the Project on which
expenditure is 100% foreign exchange.
2/   See Annex 9 Table 4 for phasing of Project cost estimates.
3.17      The IBRD loan would be made to the Government for 15 years including
a grace period of 5 years and, would be relent to ZCDL on the same terms and
conditions. The loan term and grace period are based on the estimated financial
ability of ZCDL to service the loan to the Government. Assurances were ob-
tained that the Government would relend the proceeds of the IBRD loan to ZCDL
on these terms and would contribute the residual of ZCDL's annual development
expenditure costs under the Project to that company in return for further
equity shares.
3.18      Barclays Bank, DCO would lend ZCDL development expenditures of
US$0.8 million equivalent from its local resources for a term of 15 years
including a grace period of 5 years. An interest rate of 0.25% above prime
(currently 7%) was tentatively agreed between Government, ZCDL and Barclays
Bank, with a ceiling of 8.25% and a floor of 6.25%. The loan would be made
direct to ZCDL with Barclays securing its note by a charge over ZCDL's fixed
assets plus a chattel mortgage over the cattle. Barclays Bank, DCO has also
undertaken tc, supply the working capital needs of ZCDL as required by that
company up to us$0.4 million with an interest rate of 0.5% below prime; this
interest rate is the same as offered by commercial banks in Zambia to Govern-
ment corporations. The terms and conditions of Barclays Bank's proposed loan



- 14 -
to ZCDL would be acceptable to the IBRD. The IBRD would have sole responsi-
bility for supervision of the Project. The lending operations and disburse-
ment procedures of each lender were agreed during negotiations. Assurances
vere obtained during negotiations that the effectiveness of the loan agree-
ment between ZCDL and Barclays Bank DCO would be a cohdition of effectiveness
of the loan agreement between the Government and the IBRD.
F. Procurement
3.19      International competitive bidding would be required for the purchase
of all goods, except livestock, procured under any single contract of value in
excess of US$25,000 equivalent. To the extent feasible, ZCDL will bulk up its
development input requirements for international bidding. Indications are
that fencing wire, water piping, radio equipment, ranch vehicles and tractors
for Project ranches and dairy farms will be purchased by international compe-
titive bidding. Any physical inputs required, not purchased under interna-
tional competitive bidding, would be subject to local competitive bidding.
In the latter case bidding notices would be published in local newspapers
and circulated to representatives of foreign governments in Zambia. Adequate
local representation of international agricultural equipment firms exists in
Zambia to ensure effective competition. Private contractors are available
for construction of ranch roads and for the installation of boreholes.
3.20      For the beef ranches, purchases of about 10,000 breeding heifers and
cows and 1,300 bulls are contemplated.   Development of the Project dairy farms
would require purchase of 2,200 dairy heifers and cows. Dairy bull require-
ments can be met from local sources, from imports and by use of artificial
insemination. As the type and quality of beef and dairy stock suitable for
Zambian conditions can only be o,btained from local areas, international tender-
ing would not be appropriate for livestock procurement. An assessment of the
availability of beef and dairy stock for Project ranches was made and the
development phasing of Project ranches was adjusted to ensure that it would
be in line with the conservative estimates made of annual livestock avail-
ability. An assurance was obtained during negptiations that any livestock
imported to the Project would be subjected to quarantine and other veterinary
regulations in force at the time and acceptable to the Bank; that purchases
of beef cattle within Zambia would be msde after veterinary consultation; and
that of dairy cattle to be purchased would be subjected to veterinary inspec-
tion and health tests.
G. Disbursements and Auditing
3.21      Disbursements woul4 be spread over five years.   The proposed IBRD
loan of US$ 2.5 million would finance (a) 100% of the direct foreign exchange
costs of the project estimated at US$ 800,000 a3nd (b) 37% of the remaining
development expenditure. This latter percentage represents the estimated
foreign exchange component of the expenditure in this category.   Thus, the



- 15 -
IBRD loan would amount to 43% of the total cost of the Project.   All documen-
tation would be certified by the General Manager or the Senior Beef and Dairy
Managers of ZCDL and by the appropriate official in the Ministry of Finance.
3.22      Independent commercial auditing services are available in Zambia.
However, there is a shortage of qualified accountants which is giving rise
to delays of up to four months in the audit of accounts of Government and
commercial firms. Currently, the local branch of Cooper Brothers has been
retained by ZCDL to audit its accounts and to advise the company on financial
and accounting procedures. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
ZC(DL would maintain separate accounts for each Project beef ranch and dairy
farm, arrange for the auditing of these accounts and the accounts of ZCDL by
arn accounting firm aeceptable to IBRD and would forward the audited accounts
no later than six months after the close of ZCDL's fiscal year.
H. Corporate Structure and Management
3.23      In July 1968, ADC established its first subsidiary ZCDL, as a
company limited by shares under the Companies Ordinance of Zambia (Para.
1.01).  See Chart I for details of ZCDL's organizational aspects.   Currently
all its shares are owned by ADC. ADC, in turn, is wholly owned by Government.
ZCDL by ordinary resolution can issue regular shares and shares with special
rights to private investors. Thus, ZCDL could issue preferred or redeemable
shares to qualified investors if ZCDL's Board approves the terms of such addi-
tional equity investment.
3.24      ZCDL's main activity is beef ranching.   It has undertaken to build
up a limited dairy operation which should contribute to its overall cash flow
and profitability in the early years of beef ranch development while revenues
from beef cattle operations rise. ZCDL also maintains a small sheep operation
at; Mbala Ranch and has taken over a profitable pig unit as an adjunct to the
bull breeding ranch. ZCDL also produces maize on its dairies and on a few
rEnches where soil conditions and marketing make this profitable.
3.25      ZCI)L would be responsible for planning, organizing and implementing
the development program under the Project for the beef cattle ranches and
dairy farms. Annex 10 gives further details on its corporate structure. ZCDL
hes now taken over the existing livestock and fixed assets from the Ministry
of Rural Development and CSB. A new capital structure has been agreed between
ADC and ZCDL. Authorized capital for ZCDL is now US$5.6 million equivalent
with paid-up capital standing at US$2.7 million equivalent as of January 22,
1969. The creation of a new corporate organization and the consolidation of
the assets formerly run by the Ministry of Rural Development and Cold Storage
Bcoard should make for more efficient and commercial management as well as
facilitate the financing of development and permit a proper evaluation of
operational and financial results.



- 16 -
Management
3.26      ZCDL's policy is determined by its Board of Directors appointed
separately from its parent ADC's Board. Currently ZCDL's Board has a purely
nominal membership. In view of the likely size of ZCDL's operations and the
importance of ZCDL's production to the future development of the livestock
industry, agreement was reached with the ADC and the Permanent Secretary of
the Ministry of Rural Development that ZCDL's Board would be reconstituted
and strengthened to include two representatives of the Zambia cattle industry,
one representative of the financial community, one representative of the
Ministry of Rural Development and one representative of ADC (Chairman). Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that the Board of ZCDL has been strength-
ened and reorganized with financial and livestock expertise acceptable to the
IBRD (Annex 10 para. 12).
3.27      ZCDL's Chief Executive Officer is the General Manager who would be
responsible, subject to general direction by the Board, for carrying out ZCDL's
functions. His duties, responsibilities and authorities are given in Annex 10.
ZCDL has filled the General Manager's position with a staff member of the Agri-
cultural Development Service (ADS-Nairobi). An assurance was obtained during
negotiationn that ZCDL would appoint and maintain a General Manager whose
duties, powers and qualifications as well as his terms and conditions of em-
ployment are acceptable to the IBRD from the date of signing of the loan.
3.28      The General Manager is assisted at headquarters by an accountant,
a secretary and an administrative assistant (See Annex 10, Chart 1 for details
of ZCDL's organization). The General Manager would select a Senior Beef
Ranch Manager and a Senior Dairy Manager who, in addition to their responsi-
bilities for running their respective beef ranch and dairy farm, would act
also in a wider capacity, as deplaties in these specialty fields as required.
In view of the importance of senlor management in ensuring the success of
the Project, assurances were obtained during negotiations that ZCDL would
consult the IBRD on the appointments of the Senior Dairy and Beef Ranch
Managers. Individual managers, recruited in Zambia, would direct the day-
to-day operations of each beef ranch and dairy farm.
Financial Operations
3.29      ZCDL has not been operating long enough to issue any trading
accounts.   ZC.L's cash flow over the life of the Project is shown in Annex 11
Table 1.  ZCDLis opening balance sheet (January 22, 1969) and estimates of
ZCDL's projected balance sheets are given in Annex 11 Table 2.
3.30      As the accounts of most of the beef ranches and Gravetts dairy farm
were part of the Ministry of Rural Development's recurrent expenditure and
capital accounts apd the Ministry of Finance's General Revenue Accounts, an
accurate assessment of the operating costs and revenues prior to their transfer
to ZCDL has been difficult to ascertain. Based on cattle inventories, capital
costs, as well as trading and profit and loss accounts provided by the
Ministry of Rural Development's accountant for six of the project ranches
plus Gravetts dairy farm for 1967 and 1968, financial estimate have been
constructed for the ranches 4nd dairy farm as a group.



- 17 -
3.31      As a group, the seven beef ranch and dairy operations had an esti-
maLted gross trading profit of about US$126,000 fdr 1968, due mainly to the 38%
price increase for slaughter stock in effect frodi January 1968. If compa-
rable standard valuations to 1967 are used, the ranching and dairy operations
would have incurred a trading loss of about US$196,000 for 1968. For 1967,
the ranches and dairy showed a trading loss of about US$177,800 when live-
stock was valued at the same standard values at the beginning and at che end
of the year.  Given current prices and if developed as planned,under the
proposed Project, ZCDL, with its respo!asible management, shoulet be able to
convert these operations into a viable company. Annex 11 Table 1 indicates
that ZCDL should achieve a small cash surplus in the second year of the Project
before payment of interest on bzrrowed capital.   After payment of interest,
ZCDL should achieve a cash surplus in the sixth Project year.   Since ZCDL is
a new untested company, an assurance was obtained during negotiations that
Z(DL's debts (maturing over one year) would not be permitted to exceed the
value of its paid-up capital.
Corporate Benefits
3, 32     Given adequate management, the current pattern of beef and milk
prices should ensure that ZCDL's operations are profitable. The financial
rate of return on the new investment, calculated after taxes, is estimated
at 12% (Annex 12). The return on capital employed varies, but after taxes
and at full development in the eighth year, ZCDL should earn an estimated
l:L% to 14% on its paid-up share capital. The cumulative cash build up at
the end of twrenty years, available either for reinvestment or payable annually
as dividends to the shareholder (ADC), is estimated at about US$7 million equiv-
alent. The paid-up c'apital stock of the ZCDL will be about US$4 million at
the end of the disbursement period of the proposed loan. The long-term debt
of the ZCDL at the end of the sixth year of the Project would be about US$3
million equivalent. This would result in a ratio of debt-to-equity of 1 to
1.3, which is satisfactory.
I. Technical Services and Training
3.33      Technical direction of ZCDL would be part of the responsibility
of its General Manager. His salary and other expenses are included in the
capital costs of the Project. Finance is also provided on the same basis
foDr short term consultant services, to assist the General Manager in the
establishment of a pasture improvement program on Project beef ranches, for
planning the four unspecified dairy farms and the two unspecified breeding/
weaning ranches and for organizing beef ranch and dairy farm watering facil-
ities. A practical training program conducted on Project ranches would be
organized to prepare candidates for assistant ranch manager positions. To
bie appointed assistant ranch managers, successful trainees would require com-
pletion of at least one year of a training program on a Project ranch.



- 18 -
IV.   MARKETS AND PRICES
Beef
4.01      Producer price levels now provide adequate incentives to ZCDL
to expand production. In January 1968, the CSB increased its guaranteed
minimum prices by an average of 38%, with lower grades going up 45% and the
higher grades about 20%. The value received by the producer (averaging
US$31 equivalent per 100 lb cold dressed weight) is now roughly equivalent
to world export prices of US$550-600 per metric ton fob, but still below the
landed cost in Zambia of imported beef of equivalent grade of US$720 per
metric ton. To ensure a steady throughput to CSB abattoirs, a seasonal
price differential is paid to producers. Ranchers holding their cattle
through to the end of the dry season receive a 13% premium. In view of the
importance of adequate prices for beef cattle and milk for the viability of
the Project, an assurance was obtained during negotiations that Government
would consult regularly with the IBRD concerning producer prices and would
not place any restrictions on the movement of cattle, except for disease
reasons within Zambia, without consulting the IBRD.
4.02      Besides the price of the finished product, there is the important
consideration of credit facilities for financing the purchase and lending
of breeder, weaner and fattening stock which are currently provided through
the CSB's Grazier Scheme. In June 1968, some 52,000 head of cattle were held
by commercial ranchers and grazier associations. The CSB retains title to
the cattle and insures through the grazier agreement signed by the borrower,
by branding with CSB's mark and by periodi( inspections, that the cattle are
well maintained.  The CSB's interest, fees and principal are recouped at
slaughter and the borrower receives the balance as profit. This scheme has
been the princ'.pal force in stabilizing the commercial herd in recent years.
The size of the credit operation is likely to grow as the industry expands,
including nev financing required for the increased output of the Project
ranches when at full production.
4.03      The value of the cattle held by ranchers under the Grazier Scheme
is currently about US$3.0 million equivalent. The average term of the contract
is about 4 years for all cattle financed. Current practice is for the CSB to
borrow on 90-day Treasury Bills and to revolve them to finance this medium-
term operation. The Treasury has been relatively well supplied with short-
term money and the method has worked well. Nevertheless, this situation
could change.  Without access to credit, the Grazier Scheme would not be able
to expand. Since the current Project, as well as the future expansion of the
industry, is dependent in part on the smooth functioning of the Scheme, assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that Government would ensure that the
Grazier Scheme would be refinanced within a year from the date of signing of
the IBRD loan, on terms yhich reflect Ihe 3 to 5 year maturity of Ihe contracts
granted ranchers participating in the Grazier Scheme. Currently, Government
is organizing a subsidiary company of ADC, to be called the Cattle Finance
Company of Zambia, to take over the operations of the Grazier Scheme.



- 19 -
Milk
4.o4      The DPB provides adequate price incentives to the efficient milk
producer. Cuirrently the price offered including quality premiums is equiv-
alent to US$0.52 per gallon at the farm gate. This is above the Kenya price
of US$0.35 and Uganda of US$0.42.  All milk production from Project dairies
would be gold to the DPB.  The DPB has ample milk tankers to make daily pick-
Ups.
Dairy Beef
4.0-`6    The Projec4 dairy farms will also be fattening their Friesian
steer calves. Experience on similar commercial operations in Zambia in-
dicates that such fat steers bring nearly US$200 equivalent sold to local
butchers, giving a margin over direct and ind.irect costs of nearly US$50, a
profitable operation at these currently prevailing prices.
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICA*ION
5.01      The principal direct benefits resulting from the Project would
be the increased production of beef and dairy products, of weaners for
fattening and of improved breeding stock. The total extra annual beef out-
put from all the ranches due to the Project at full production is about 1,600
tons worth about US$900,000. In addition, approximately 13,000 weaner steers
and heifers and 500 improved bulls would be available for sale to Zambian
ranchers annually worth together nearly US$1 million equivalent. From the
dairy farms, the five herds will be in full production in year 5, with an
estimated increased output of 20 tons of whole milk per day worth about
US$750,000 annually. These farms will also have available for sale to Zambians
annually 360 su-plus dairy heifers in-calf worth us$60,000. Thus the total
extra value of the production generated by the Project per year at maturity
is about US$2.T million equivalent. The return to the economy of Zambia is
16% over the twent--r year life of the Project (Annex 12).
5.02      Nine of the ranches would produce annually at the seventh year of
the Project about 8,500 feeder steer weaners and 4,000 surplus weaner heifers
fo:r breeding. Two ranches, located in Northern Zambia, would produce about
3,000 head of grass fattened slaughter stock per annum by the seventh year
of the Project. The remaining beef ranch would be developed fully as a
bull breeding ranch, making available to the industry 500 improved herd bulls
and 400 surplus stud heifers by the seventh year (Annex 13). Currently, the
ranches and farms are about 30% developed. They would achieve full carrying
capacity in the first 10 years of the Project. On-ranch investments and
application of improved management practices aim at increased beef output of
approximately 10% per annum over an 8-10 year development period. This would
be brought about by an increase in calving rate of 10%, a reduction of 2% in
the herd mortality rate and increasing cattle offtakes to about 25% in the
eighth year of the Project.



- 20 -
5.03      The beef and dairy output from Project ranches and farms would
partially meet the rapidly rising demand for these products in Zambia. The
production of beef from the ranches at Mbala, Chishinga and Solvezi is
particularly required by hospitals, schools and other institutions in those
districts which have no other local commercial source of meat. The pro-
duction of weaners would provide emergent ranching cooperatives and indi-
vidual African ranches with a source of fattening and breeding stock. Esti-
mated foreign exchange savings, net of annual foreign exchange outlays
directly attributable to the Project, would be Us$1.6 million per annum at
full development.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The Project is sound and suitable for an IBRD loan.   The rates
of return accruing to the investment in ZCDL and to the economy are satis-
factory.  A Loan of US$2.5 million equivalent is appropriate.   The Loan
would be about 43% of the total Project cost. The Borrower would be the
Government of Zambia and it would relend the funds to ZCDL.
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  The Government would:
(i) Submit evidence to the IBRD of ZCDL's rights of occupancy
on Solwezi and Chishinga ranches located on trust lands and
evidence of leasehold titles for each Project beef ranch and
dairy farm prior to requesting disbursements from the IBRD for
investments on that ranch or dairy (paras. 3.05 and 3.06);
(ii) on-lend the proceeds of the loan to ZCDL for 15 years in-
cluding five years of grace and contribute, the residual
of ZCDL's annual ranch development capital expenditures to
that company in return for further equity shares (para. 3.17);
(iii) not restrict cattle movements within Zambia except for
disease nor reduce the producer price offered to ZCDL for
beef cattle or for dairy produce without consultation
with the IBRD (para. 4.01) and
(iv) strengthen the financial structure of the Grazier Scheme
no later than 12 months from the date of signing of the
Loan Agreement (para. 4.03).
(b) The ZCDL would:
(i) submit to the IBRD for review and approval its plans for
the development of the four unspecified dairy farms and the
two unspecified beef breeding/weaning ranches no later than
6 months from the date of signing of the Loan Agreement
(Para. 3.08);



- 21 -
(ii) undertake international competitive bidding for all goods,
except livestock, purchased for Project ranches on all single
contracts over US$25,000 and subject purchases of inputs not
purchased by international tender to local competitive bidding
(para. 3.19);
(iii) submit purchases of breeding stock for the approval of ZCDL's
General Manager and meet all necessary veterinary requirements
according to source anc' kind of stock (para. 3.20);
(iv) maintain separate accounts for each Project beef ranch and
dairy farm, arrange for the auditing of these accounts and
the accounts of ZCDL by an accountant acceptable to the IBRD,
and forward the audited accounts to the IBRD not later than
six m6nths after the close of ZCDL's fiscal year (para. 3.22);
(v) not incur any debt maturing over one year which would increase
the amount of the company's debt beyond its paid-up capital
(para. 3.31);
(vi) maintain an individual as General Manager whose duties,
powers and qualifications as well as the terms and conditions
of his employment would be subject to the approval of the
IBRD from the date of signing to the end of the loan (para.
3.27); and
(vii) consult with the IBRD on the appointments of the Senior
Beef Ranch Manager and Senior Dairy Manager for Project
ranches (para. 3.28).
(c) The Barclays Bank DCO would:
(i) conclude a loan agreement acceptable to the IBRD, with ZCDL
indicating that they vould provide 17% of development expen-
dituire ($770,000 equivalent) to ZCDL; the effectiveness of
this loan agreement between Barclays Bank DCO and ZCDL to be
a condition of effectiveness of the IBRD loan (para. 3.18).






ANNEX 1
ZAMBIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Cattle Industry
A. Introduction
1.        The cattle industry in Zambia has a dual structure of comprising
commercial and traditional type production. In the commercial sector, about
500 European beef ranchers maintain 130,000 cattle on holdings ranging from
3,000 to 100,000 acres. Currently there are about 85 commercial dairy farms
with milking herds averaging 100 cows. The bulk of Zambia's cattle herd,
1.1 million head, is grazed in the traditional sector on communal and tribal
lands. In the traditional sector, there is 10 small-scale dairy production
for commercial sales in towns or urban areas.
2.        As a result of growing incomes in both the urban and mining
sectors, Zambia has in recent years experienced increasing deficits of meat
and milk supplies, requiring substantial imports of beef and powdered milk.
Government, anxious to narrow the deficit, has raised producer prices of
be,ef substantially and is drawing up a long-range program of financial and
technical encouragement to aid both the commercial and traditional producer.
B. Land Distribution
3.        Land in Zambia is divided into four categories.   These are State
Land, Trust Land, Reserves and tribally controlled land in Barotse Province.
Th,e following table is the present distribution pattern of the four cate-
gories.
Area
Category       (Million Acres)           Distribution and Use
1.  State Land           11.7                 3.5 freehold
2.5 leasehold and/or licenses
5.7 still under Government
control
2.  Reserves             35.7                 Communal and traditional use
3. Trust Land           107.4                 As for Reserves
4.  Barotse Province     31.2                 Under control of Paramount Chief
of Barotse Peoples, who distri-
bute land under a tribal law
system
TOTAL         186.0



ANNEX 1
Page 2
At present the land tenure and distribution system is under review and a new
policy may be implemented sometime in 1969.
C. The National Herd
4.        Zambia's national herd of cattle is approximately 1.2 million
head of which traditional producers own 1.1 million and commercial producers
(mainly Europeans with some commercial Zambian farmers) the balance of some
130,000 head. Tonga, Barotse and Angoni are the three main types of cattle
indigenous to Zambia, comprising about 70% of the national herd. The break-
down is as follows:
Breed or Type                      Estimated No.       % of National Herd
TONGA - Short & Medium horned
Sanga 1/ type                     445,000                  35
BAROTSE - Long horned Sanga                 275,000                 21
ANGONI - Short horned & polled
humped Zebu type                 175,000                  14
TOTAL                       895,000                  70
1/   Sanga is a type of cattle irndigenous to African countries, evolvea over
the centuries from continuous crossing of Bos Indicus and Bos Taurus
strains.
5.        Of the total 895,000 head of indigenous type cattle, 99% are owned
by the traditional sector. The most popular of the breeds is the Angoni,
followed by the Barotse, both types havi.ng demonstrated their ability to
stand up to the rigors of poor management, low levels of nutrition and
traditional herding and husbandry techniques. Of the two, the Angoni appears
to have the best prospects for development and improvement. Although a
small animal, its fertility performance is good, coupled with its inherent
tolerance of local conditions. Crossed or upgraded with Boran or Brahman
bulls over several generations, this breed could become the basis of future
Zambian herd development vither for an animal suited to local conditions for
distribution to emergent Zambian farmers or as the female side of a hybrid
beef breeding program using exotic type bulls.
6.        Afrikander, Boran, Hereford, Charolais, South Devon, Sussex and
Brahman are the main imported breeds to Zambia, distributed mainly among thie
commercial rancherp. Afrikander influences in these have predominated,
whereby about 90% of the commercial herd comprises Afrikander blood. Al-
though this breed has contributed substantiall- to the national herd im-
provement, it is felt that Afrikander has sevee-e limitations in fertility
under uncontrolled breeding practices.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
7.        There is an increasing use of Boran which is proving beneficial
in improving quality, However, general use of this breed is limited mainly
by the veterinary restrictions applied to the importation of these animals
from Kenya. One method to overcome this limi,tation is to adopt artificial
insemination. It has been determined that acequate quantities of frozen
Boran semen could be available from Kenya at economic prices.
8.        Of the other imported breeds in use for ctoss-breediag, Hereford,
Charolais and Sussex have demonstrated value and popularity. A greater use
of these and other breeds will contribute significantly to the national
tonnage output of beef over the next decade. Howfever, careful attention
is required in distributing surplus breeding females from these crosses to
the Zambian farmer sector. Genetic deterioration by uncontrolled,breeding
policies could be' ralid, as well as mortality increases due to lover levels
of herd management.  CarefuL planning and control is necessary to ensure
against this.
D. Livestock Distribution
9.        From the census taken in 1965 and 1966, the classification of the
1.2 million head national herd is approximately:
Bulls                     38,500                   3% of herd
Cows and heifers         573,300                  48% of herd
Oxen                     355,700                  30% of herd
Calves                  232,400                   19% of herd
TOTAL              1.2 million              100% of herd
The Commercial Beef Herd
10.       The commercial beef herd numbers have decreased from approximately
213,000 head in 1961 to 130,000 in 1966 due mainly to the exodus of European
farmers, a secondary result of which was the slaughtering of female breeding
stock to realize maximum capital before leaving. However, since 1966, as a
result of legislation whereby female stock of departing ranchers is now
rescued and also due to a renewal of confidence in the country by the re-
maining ranchers, the cattle population of the commercial sector has stab-
ilized, This herd is almost exclusively concentrated along the 'line of
rail' areas and in Southern Province. Of the 130,000 head in the total
comnercial beef herd approximatley 60,000 head are breeding females, of
which the Cold Storage Board (CSB) has lent out to commercial ranchers and
farmers about 38,000 or 63% of the total cow herd. The balance is owned
by these farmers and other private ranchers.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
The Commercial Dairy Herd
11.       The commercial dairy herd is small, comprising about 10,000 breed-
ing females, of which 85% are Friesian and the remainder Jersey and Guernseys,
with Southern African blood in all breeds. There is almost no milk pro-
duction for sale from the traditional sector. It is not clear in which
direction the expansion of dairy farming will take place, particularly in
relation to the emergent Zambian farmer. However, plans are being drawn up
by Government for the establishment of a series of 40-cow units in different
rural areas. Experiments are currently taking place in developing dairy
cross.breeds suitable for small farmer production. The steer calf resulting
from these crossbred animals will be suitable for beef production.
12.       In the past, it was common practice in the commercial dairy herds
to slaughter calves at birth. With the increase in beef prices in 1968, a
number of dairymen have found it profitable to fatten their dairy steer
calves for sale at 12 to 14 months. As long as the current price advantage
is maintained Project ranches will feed their Friesian steer calves under an
intensive rearing system to slaughter when about 12 to 14 months of age at
850 lb liveweight.
The Traditional Beef Sector
13.       The traditional herd of about 1.2 million is distributed mainly
through Southern and Barotse Provinces. Most of these cattle are kept under
communal grazing systems.  The overall distribution pattern is as follows,
% of
Province                No. of Head              Total Herd
Southern                   483,000                   41
Barotse                    284,000                   25
Eastern                    172,000                   16
Central                    118,200                   11
Northern                     50,500                   5
North Western               12,300                    1
Western                       3,000                   0.5
Luapula                      2,800                    0.5
TOTAL             1.2 million             100



ANNEX 1
Page 5
E. Livestock Offtakes and Reproduction Rates
14.       The offtakes are fairly satisfactory in the commercial sector at
17-18% per annum whilst the traditiona4 herd is very low at 4%. By contrast
the offtake rate on the Zambia Cattle 5evelopment Lta. ranches,included in
the Project are expected to rise to 25% in the first 8-10 yeari3 of the Project.
The low offtake in the traditional herd can be generally attributed to calf
mortalities and a tendency of the sector as a whdle still to regard cattle as
their wealth. The following table indicates the pattern of offtakes over the
past 4 years.
Commercial Sector
total
Total Herd      Slaughterings      Offtake
Year             ('000)           ('000)              %
1964               190                29             i5
1965               156                26             17
1966               150                27             18
1967               150                27             18
Average            161                27             17
Traditional Sector
Known        Estimated Bush         Total
Total Head  Slaughterings   Slaughterings      Slaughterings  Offtake
Year      ('000)        ('000)          ('000)            ('000)         %
1964      1,112 
1965      1,100          16                32               68          4.3
1966      1,150          18                36               54          4.9
1967      1,200          18                36               54          4.9
Average     1,103          17.7              34.6             52          4.7
15.       In the commercial sector effective calving percentages (weaning
rates)-range from about 62% to 83%, with an average of around 70%. These
figures, although low by U.S. standards are comparable to efficiently
menaged ranches in East African and Latin American countries. In the



ANNEX 1
Page 6
traditional areas, however, weaning rates are much lower. For example, in
Barotse Province the calving percentage (at birth) is around 40% with an
effective weaning rate of only about 24%, representing a calf mortality of
about 50% of all calves born. These figures are generally the pattern
throughout the traditional sector. A great deal of attention is required
of Government to improve the performance of the sector, as it is a major
undeveloped livestock resource.



ANNEX 2
ZAMBIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing of Beef and Milk
Meat Marketing
1.        The marketing of livestock and meat has evolved rapidly since
1964. The principal factors of this evolution are rapid rise in consumer
demand, the drop in local supplies due to the depart,ure of a number of non-
Zambian ranchers, the expanded role of the Cold Storage Board (CSB) into
live cattle maLrketing and beef carcass importing, and finally the decision
by Government in 1968 to raise its producer support price for beef by an
average of 38%.
2.        Cattle are slaughtered and marketed in three ways - 37% of total
consumption by CSB, about 20% by private butchers and 20% in village
slaughterings   The balance is made up from imported carcasses.
Cor_sumer Demand for Beef
3.        The internal demand for beef in Zambia has been expanding.   About
88.000 carcasses were consumed in 1964, increasing to 96,800 in 1967. How-
ever, domestic supplies dropped from 74,200 to 59,400 over the same period,
requiring a 164% increase in beef imports. The principal reasons for this
expansion have been rising incomes, the relatively low price of beef (prior
to 1968) compared to protein substitutes such as mutton, pork and poul'ry,
general population increases (3% per annum), and rapid urbanization 1/.
1/   The projection made by the Zambian Ministry of Agriculture on the
future demand for beef was based on the following assumptions: changes
in aggregate national income and the price of beef relative to close
substitutes for it are assumed to be the principal determinants of beef
demand. These assumptions should be qualified as the use of aggregate
income as an explanatory variable neglects population changes, especially
since a relative increase in young population will alter the average de-
mand for meat. In addition, shifts in population between regions and
occupations can affect demand insofar as urbanization (Lusaka and
Livingstone) and the expanding copper industry have an impact on con-
sumption patterns. However, it is difficult to allow for these factors
in light of the inadequate data available. Therefore, a constant income
elasticity of demand for beef of 1.2 was assumed - e.g. a 1% rise in
total private consumption of all commodities will give rise to a 1.2%
rise in the consumption of beef. This assumption accords with FAO
elasticity estimates for East African countries ranging from 0.9 to 1.3.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
It is clear that the magnitude of recent increases of annual internal
consumption of beef is likely to continue for some years to come.
Beef Consumption: Carcass Equivalents
Actual                         Projected
1964        88,308             1969         120,000
1965        89,662             1970         130,000
1966        85,955            1975          165,000
1967        96,810            1985          300,000
1968(est)  110,000
Even assuming demand at 300,000 carcasses by 1985, this level would still
only provide an average consumption of beef per person of roughly 20 pounds,
equivalent to consumption levels now achieved in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania.
4.        From the slaughter stock sources of both the commercial and tradi-
tional sectors, about 55,000 head are available at present with prospects
of increasing this to about 76,000 head by 1970, as a result of: (a) the
Project ranches and dairy farm contributions at peak production levels; and
(b) by the reasonable assumptions that the traditional herd will continue
to increase at about 2% per annum and that offtake will be held at 4% per
annum.
5.        These output estimates would still be insufficient to meet the
demand projected of about 130,000 head in 1970. By 1975, local supplies
should rise to perhaps 80,000 head which would require about 85,000 carcass
eqgivalents to be imported if present trends in demand persist, which is
considered likely by knowledgeable Zambian agricultural planning officials.
Beef Imports
6.        Imports of beef are projected to increase rapidly as domestic
supplies fail to match likely internal consumption. Recent estimates
indicate that import requirements (now running at nearly 40,000 carcass
equivalents annually) are likely to reach 85,000 by 1975, rising to perhaps
160,000 carcasses by 1985. Based on a cif estimate of US$700 per metric
ton, the cost in foreign exchange of these imports, now averaging the
equivalent of US$6.0 million, would rise to over US$12.0 million in 1975
and may cost the balance of payments nearly US$25 million annually by 1985.
The CSB has a mtonopoly on beef imports to Zambia. The bulk of imports,
which are equivalent to Zambia's middle grade (standard), come from South
Africa, Botswana and Swaziland.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
CeLttle Movement
7.        Beef cattle are moved to colhsuming areas by trekking, truck and
reil.  The ofMftake from Baroste Province is normally walked out to Living-
stone.  Cattle in Central and Southerni Provinces are normally trekked to
the rail line and railed to Lusaka and the Copperbelt. While no problem is
expected in shifting cattle under the proposed Project, it is likely that
expanded development of the livestock industry will run into a transport
bottleneck, both in the lack of adequate stock routes and the shortage of
cattle transport vehicles. Government is aware of !this problem and is
drawing up proposals to improve the situation as part of its national
livestock development program.
The Cold Storage Board of Zambia and its Role in Meat Marketing
8.        The CSB was established in January 1964 comprising in the main the
Zamibian prorated assets and liabilities of the former Federal Cold Storage
Commission. Legally, it is constituted (under Ordinance No. 1 of 1964, and
regulated by the Cold Storage Commission Act of 1960) as a Statutory Board
of Government, working under a board of directors appointed by the Minister
of Rural Development.
9.        The CSB has no monopoly powers to buy live cattle in Zambia.
There is, therefore, considerable pressure of competition for slaughter
stock from local butchers who offer prices to producers above CSB minimum
support price.  About 17,000 cattle are purchased annually by private
butchers for slaughter, approximately 20% of cattle marketed in Zambia
annually in recent years. This competition in the marketing of live
cattle between CSB and private butchers is praiseworthy and should be
encouraged.
Ab,attoirs
10.       The CSB maintains abattoirs at Lusaka, Livingstone, Kitwe and
Chipata. Another smell abattoir is planned for Kasama in Northern Province.
The CSB has established 80 saleyards throughout the major cattle centers
of the country to service these abattoirs. These saleyards appear to be
fwuctioning adequately in relation to the total cattle population. After
the increase in cattle prices, a noticeable increase in offtake has
occurred in Baroste Province.
11.       Currently, total CSB abattoir capacity is 500 head per day, with
an additional 50 head per day envisaged for Kasama. The Danish Government
is assisting CSB in expanding the Lusaka abattoir to 350 head per day
capacity. CSB will then have the capacity to slaughter 170,000 head per
year. This would be sufficient for the foreseeable future as current live
cattle supplies average 50,000 to 60,000 head per annum. Local butchers
are encouraged, on a fee basis, to use the CSB facilities for slaughtering
their own purchases.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
12.       The value of CSB's operations has almost tripled from 1964 to
1967. This expansion has been due to the overall increase in its slaughter-
ing as well as the doubling in the number of cattle placed under grazier
agreements during this period. The trading losses incurred in 1966 and 1967
were due principally to the rapid rise in imported cattle and carcasses
marketed by CSB prior to the January 1968 increase in prices. These losses
should be minimal since the rise. For 1968, the CSB was estimated to break
even. Under the provisions of the legal ordinance establishing the Cold
Storage Board as a statutory board, Governiment is obliged to cover any operat-
ing losses incurred by the Board. The Ministry of Finance has now instituted
an overall review of the organizational and financial structure of all Govern-
ment statutory boards, including the CSB. One of the issues being covered in
this review is the financing of CSB's Grazier Scheme.
Milk and Dairy Produce Marketing
13.       Similar to the marketing of beef, the marketing of milk and
dairy products has undergone substantial changes since 1964. As described
later, the role of the Dairy Produce Board (DPB) has greatly expanded.
Most noteworthy has been the rapid expansion of milk consumption by the
lower income groups through the effective introduction by Government of
a Cheap Milk Scheme. This increase in demand has necessitated substantial
imports of milk powder for reconstituting in Zambia into liquid milk to
meet this demand. Due to the relatively low price of such powder, the
DPB has carried out such reconstitution at little or no financial loss.
Supply and Demand for Milk and Milk Products
14.       Fresh milk supply within the DPB area developed in the following
manner since 1959:
(Million Gallons per Year)
1959   1960   1961    1962   1963   1964   1965   1966   1967    1968
2.9    3.1    2.7     2.9    3.2    3.5    4.0    3.9     3.7    3.8
These figures show that more or less since 1964 fresh milk supply has been
fairly constant in absolute terms, despite the fact that the nupiber of
dairy farmers decreased from 140 in 1962 to 89 in autumn of 1968. This was
mainly due to the fact that, smaller dairy farmers went out of business with
the remaining farmers buying up their herds.
15.       During the late 1950's and early 1960's the fresh whole milk
market was in constant surplus at an average producer price of about
US$0.52 equivalent per gallop and consumer prices of US$0.12 gquiv4lent
per pint in thei Copperbelt and US$0.10 equivalent elsewhere. Only about
60% of fresh m;ilk supply was then consumed as whole milk with the balance
going into butter and cheese production. This surplus was reversed after
the introduction of the Cheap Milk Scheme on Tuly 1, 1965. The average
producer price was then reduced to US$0.49 equivalent per gallon and milk



ANNEX 2
F'age 5
became available at US$0.8 equivalent per pint in the high den:3ity areas,
and at US$0.10 equivalent per pint in low density areas (US$0.12 equivalent
on the Copperbelt), resulting in whole milk supply falling by about 5%,
whilst total consumption of whole railk increased nearly 25%. To reverse
this effect of decreasing supplies, the basic producer price was again
increased to an average of US$0.52 equivalent per gallon, with an output
of more than 4 million gallons hoped for 1966 and 1967. However, this
expectation did not materialize. Milk intake reached only 3.9 million
gallons in 1966 and declined further to 3.7 million gallons. This decline
was mainly due to farmers reluctance to invest additional capital in their
operations in view of political uncertainties.
16.       Since June of 1966 monthly milk consumptidIn has increasingly
exceeded whole milk supplies and the deficit had to be made up by increased
reconstitution of imported ingredients. Reconstitution of milk started
in June 1966 with a daily average total of 770 gallons going up to 3,200
gallons daily by December 1966, to 5,867 in September 1967 and to a daily
average of 6,840 gallons in October of 1968. The corresponding supply
figures for fresh whole milk intake can be seen in the following tabulation:
Daily average in-     Daily average recon-
take of fresh whole   stitution of milk/
Month                       milk/gallons              gallons
June/66                       10,300                   770
December/66                   10,280                 3,200
September/67                    9,240                5,867
October/68                      9,058                6,840
If the maximum natural herd increase is attained, the supply of fresh milk
is unlikely to meet milk demand. The deficits in fresh whole milk supply
are likely to increase from approximately 4.0 millibn gallons in 1969 to
17.5 million gallons by 1980, given an estimated increase of demand from
7.5 million gallons for 1969 to 24.2 million gallons by 1980 1/.
1/   This demand increase is based on the following assumptions:
(a) stability of the present (1968) retail price of 8 ngwee per
pint for low density areas and 6 ngwee per pint for high
density areas;
(b) high price demand; 5% per year increase; and
(c) low price demand: 50% per year, old price elasticity of 0.75 for
1967/68, thereafter 25% per year to 1972, then 10% per year
increase to 1980.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
17.       Due to the success of the cheap milk scheme since 1965, the
surplus of fresh whole milk that used to be processed into butter, cheese,
ice cream and other dairy products no longer exists and Zambia's necessities
in these fields must be 99% imported. The value of total annual imports of
dairy products increased from US$1.4 million in 1964 to US$2.7 million by
the end of 1967. Condensed milk imports increased from US$258,500 in 1964
to US$506,800 in 1967. Skimmed and full cream milk powder imports increased
three and a half times from a total of 1.7 million lb in 1964 to 5.8 million
lb by the end of 1967. Despite the likelihood that reconstituted milk will
become increasingly popular in tropical countries, the recent substantial
increase in production of milk powders in Europe should ensure that the
price of ingredients does not rise appreciably in excess of US$0.49 per
gallon in the immediate future. It has been calculated that Zambia can
produce milk competitively with this import parity price, although it is
unlikely that it will have either the capital or enough organizational
ability to displace imports for some years yet. On the assumptions that
commercial production is unlikely to increase rapidly in the near future,
and that Zambia shall be unable to develop dairy production rapidly enough
to offset the expected short-fall in supply, the reconstitution of imported
ingredients will continue to be an important source of supply of milk,
certainly until after 1970.
The Dairy Produce Board (DPB)
18.       The Dairy Produce Board was created by Ordinance in 1964 as ^
statutory Government body. The members of its Board are appointed by the
Minister of Rural Development. Its main functions are (a) to guarantee
minimum prices to producers which are normally reviewed and set annualy by
Government; (b) to ensure an adequate supply of milk and of other dairy
products to consumers on a national scale; (c) to control and guarantee the
quality of dairy produce; (d) to administer the different subsidies of Govern-
ment paid to consumers and producers.
19.       The DPB is manaeed by a General Manager, a Secretary/Chief
Accountant, a Marketing Manager, a Production Manager and three Factory
Managers. They operate four factories in Kitwe, Broken Hill, Lusaka and
Mazabuka and handle a fairly complete range of dairy products, selling
butter, 12 different types of cheese, condensed milk, skim milk pow,der,
full cream milk powder, ice cream, fresh whole milk (principally packed
in tetrapak cartons) and yoghurt ("Lacto").
20.       The DPB made a trading profit of US$260,000 equivalent during
fiscal 1967/68 compared to a loss of US$74,000 equivalent during the
previous year. As a result, the accumulated deficit pf the first three
years of operation was eliminated with US$24,000 equivalent carried forward
on the balance sheet. The improved trading position was brought about by
two main factors. First, the increased volume of activity of the Dairy
Produce Board during fiscal 1967/68 had reduced operating costs per unit,
and second, the DPB was able to gain from the continued slump of world
market prices of dairy products, which it has been importing in increasing



ANNEX 2
Page 7
amounts, mainly for reconstitution of milk. The Dairy Produce Board
collects, partially with its own trucks, milk from farmers in the four
producing areas around Kitwe, Broken Hill, Lusaka and Mazabuku.
Producer Prices
21..      Farmers are being paid monthly by DPB.  The present producer
price paid for farm-fresh whole milk to dairy farmers on average is US$0.49
equivalent pet gallon.  In hddition, premiums of US$0.03 equivalent per
gallon (payable by the DPB) are given for quelity tested milk. On average only
about one-third of the farmers receive these premiums. This producer price,
on average, meets a farmer's cost and with a well-managed operation, provides
him with an adequate incentive and return on his capital.
Milk Distribution
22.       Distribution of milk in Zambia is difficult due to the wide
geographic spIead of its population. DPB has tried to reach the target
fixed by the Government and to supply the greatest number of consumers
possible with a reasonable quantity of milk of good quality. Before the
Cheap Milk Scheme was launched in June 1965, the demand for fluid milk was
remLarkably steady but with regular variances resulting from:
(a) the habits of population, especially the Zambian
sector which spends, mainly in the Copperbelt, a great
amount of its monthly wages within the first week after
the first of the month when they receive their paycheck.
This leads to a much greater demand during the first ten
days of each month with the consumption then slowing
down to a rather constant level for the rest of the
month, and
(b)  the effects of the seasonal temperature differences which
increase demand during summer and lower it during the
rainy season between November and April.
23.       In addition, there are only a few suppliers in the Copperbelt.
Demand being greatest in this area, necessitates that milk from Mazabuku and
Lusaka factories be transported by road tanker to the Kitwe factory. To a
certain extent this problem is counteracted by a price differential paid to
Copperbelt producers of us$0.06 equivalent per gallon in order to encourage
them to enlarge their dairy herds. This area differential is likely to be
paid as long as Copperbelt demand outstrips local fresh milk supply.
24.       In order to increase its sales coverage as much as possible, the
Dairy Produce Board plans considerable investments in the near future.
Between now and 1971 the Board plans to invest approximately US$1.4 miLlion
equivalent for new machinery, new buildings, land acquisition and a long-
life milk factory to be operational by 1972, which wiLl permit the marketing



ANNEX 2
Page 8
in the outlying areas so far not served by DPB of milk that can be exposed
to heat and be stored for up to six weeks without souring. The start-up
capacity of this factory, which will be located in Lusaka, will be 16,000
gallons per shift and could easily be doubled to 32,000 gallons by introduc-
tion of a second shift.



ANNEX 3
ZAMBIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Grazier Scheme
Introduction
1..       Since 1964 the Cold Storage Board (CSB) has played a major role in
the development of the beef cattle indlustry.  One of its most important
fmnctions has been the distribution of live cattle through its Grazier
Scheme, udder which it iAndeE'takes to:
(a) purchase weaners and store cattle for lending as feeders
at commercial interest rates to individual ranchers and
grazing associations;
(b) guarantee minimum prices to producers for live cattle
which Are reviewed annually by Government; and
(c) preserve female stock from slaughter in order to stabilize
the national herd, oil-lending them to ranchers at commercial
rates of interest.
The Scheme at Present
2.        Under the operating structure of the CSB Grazier Scheme, surplus
cattle are purchased from commercial ranchers and the traditional sector for
lending at commercial interest rates to qualified individual ranchers and
grazing associations. The CSB retains title to the cattle and ensures,
through the grazier agreement signed by the borrower, by branding with CSB's
brand, and by periodic inspections, that the cattle are well maintained and
are only marketed through the CSB slaughter facilities. The CSB interest,
fees and principal are recovered at slaughter with the residual profit (or
loss) accruing to the borrower.
3.        This Scheme has been the principal force in stabilizing the
commercial herd in recent years. It will also be playing a key role in
any significant expansion of the beef cattle industry, unless alternative,
competitive functions develop within the framework of the national livestock
industry to provide credit along ordinary banking lines.
4.        There are five types of cattle operations conducted under the
Grazier Scheme. These are:
(a) weaner steers for growing out and fattening;
(b) store cattle for grass fattening or maize finishing;
(c) weaner heifers for growing, breeding and fattening when culled;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(d) adult females for breeding and fattening when culled; and
(e) the financing of bull breeding stock.
This system of operation has developed successfully insofar as it has
widened significantly the continuity of supply of the right type of beef
at the right time of year to the CSB and that it has done so in a manner
which ensures the CSB's ability to recoup its capital investment.
5.        At present the Grazier Scheme has a total of 256 accounts involving
an encumbered herd to CSB of 52,538 head worth about US$3.1 million equiv-
alent. The borrowers' categories are as follows:
Category                                 Number   Number of Head
Emergent African farmers,
Ranchers and Cooperatives              11          2,037
Europeans                                  197         35,891
Private Companies                           22          5,866
Government Ranches,
Institutions, etc.                     26          8,744
Total                            256         52,538
The! breakdown of the cattle and funds employed under this scheme is:
Cattle Class      Number            Loan Value Outstanding
(K)     (US$ Equivalent)
Steers            14,219         587,106           821,948
Females            38,319      1  05,934         2,248,308
Total        52,538       2,193,040         3,070,256
Credit Mechanism
6.        The normal livestock limits allowed to ranchers are approximately
300 head to a new subscriber representing an approximate value of K 14,000
(US$19,600) and 450 head to an established and proven rancher representing
an approximate value of K 20,000 (US$28,000). A balanced loan of 50% males
on a short term agreement and 50% females on a medium term agreement (up to 5
years) is usually applied to a rancher application. Ideally, if the weaners
and store cattle were available, the scheme could evolve into a fast moving
steer fattening credit system. However, the steers are not currently avail-
able to achieve this. The longest period of agreement for a livestock loan
is 5 years.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.        Secondly, the CSB undertakes credit financing to the producer
known as "advance deals". Advance credit is made against a producer's own
unencumbered stock, as distinct from stock purchased with Board assistance
from another producer. Livestock under evaluation for advanced credit to
a producer are assessed on the same basis as for the normal support credit.
However, a maximum limit is set of two-thirds of the total value of current
livestock prices.  Finally, bull purchases can be financed on ',he basis
of equivalent liveweight prices/100 lb of commercial grade cattle.
8.        In all three forms of cretdit, livestock covered by advances are
branded with the CSB registered brand and CSB retains the legal title of
the livestock. Interest on the outstanding balances financed by CSB on
behalf of the grazier is charged at 7% per annum. The grazier, in the
case of females, also agrees to produce 18 months after the signing of an
agreement, a certain number of weaners (male and female) and thereafter
each breeding year, until stkch time as the female is fattened and sold
back to the CSB as a cull. These weaners will also be branded by CSB.
All calves born during the agreement become the property of CSB. If cattle
should die, be lost, stolen or otherwise, the amount of loss is met by CSB
and deducted from proceeds due to the rancher when stock under the scheme
is remarketed through the CSB. In practice, usually the first calf only
is branded by CSB and none at all are branded if the outstanding commitment
on the cow by the grazier is less than US$28.
Current and Future Financial Structure
9.        The CSB has built up the Grazier Scheme to its present level
(US$3 million equivalent) by revolving 90-day Treasury bills costing 6¼%.
Each 90 days the CSB and Government automatically revolve the notes and
frequently add to the outstanding balance as the Scheme expands. While the
copper price has been high and Government has been relatively well supplied
with surplus funds from tax revenues and commercial banks taking up Treasury
bills, the CSB has been relatively safe in relying on such short-term
fiinancing.
10.       However, there are two dangers in continued reliance on such
financing. First, the Grazier Scheme itself has expanded into lending
females vhich are a longer term (up to 5 years) loan operation than revolving
fattening stock (6 to 18 months). And second, the surpluses in commercial
banks can easily be lent directly by them as new credit demands arise in
the private and public sector and copper prices, always volatile, could fall
precipitously, both factors contributing to a future possible Government
inability to continue to revolve and expand its short term financing of a
basically medium-term (average 3 years) cattle lending operation.
11.       Since the Scheme has contributed substantially to the stabilization
of the commercial breeding herd and is likely to play a major credit role in
the future expansion of the livestock industry, it is important that the
Scheme be financed with a loan whose term is appropriately matched with the
term of the cattle loans outstanding. Informal discussions were held with



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Government, CSB and commercial banks in Zambia and London. The banks
indicated their willingness to discuss with Government appropriate financial
and institutional arrangements, including provision of both loan and equity
finance, to a possible restructured Grazier Scheme organized as a company
(with minority or majority government participation) whose main business
would be to purchase and lend cattle to carefully selected and supervised
ranchers.



ANNEX 4
ZAMBIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Policies for Livestock Development
Existing Government Policy
1.        The total Government authorized development expenditure for 1966-
1968 was US$458 million equivalent. Of this, about 10% (US$48 million
equivalent,) was earmarked for agricultural development; from this amount
US$2.3 million equivalent was allottedi for livestock development.  The
range of Government sponsored livestock projects underway to date is
reflected below:
(a) The CSB Grazier Scheme:    (See Annex 3)
(b)  Southern P&ovince Grazing Associations:  Currently, there are
two grazing associations in operation in Southern Province.
Each has a membership of about 60 members with long waiting
lists. About 300 cattle are involved in each association,
100 of which are store cattle on loan from the CSB Grazier Scheme.
The minimum inputs of fencing, dips and water facilities are
supplied by the Ministry of Rural Development on credit. Direct
management is the responsibility of the association membership,
assisted by the Ministry's extension staff. The participants
are enthusiastic to expand this type of scheme. Land tenure
and the shortage of weaner steers and heifers appear to be the
principal constraints in the short run to such expansion.
(c)  The Eastern Province Grazier Scheme:   This Scheme is designed to
convert surplus maize and groudnut cake grown in Eastern Province
into beef and to expand the already successful Zambian farmer's role
in Eastern Province in growing out weaner stock and finishing
them for slaughter under feedlot conditions. Under this scheme
cattle are lent out to selected Zambian farmers as weaners
which, in turn, are grazed and grown out to about 3½ year olds
in the farmers' own herd, after which the farmers put these
steers on feed under lot conditions for about 120 days. The
ration consists of snapped corn and groundnut cake. The whole
growing/fattening cycle is conducted under the supervision of
the Provincial Animal Husbandry Officer, who also assists in
designing the facilities. The average size of the operation
involves between 5-10 head with a total cycle time of about 3
years. When cattle are slaughtered, all costs including
purchase price, interest, feed costs and administration are
deducted and the balances are distributed to the farmer.
Experience has shown that the farmer nets between US$35 and
US$40 equivalent per head. The major constraint acting on the
development of this successful scheme is the shortage of weaner
stock to meet the African farmers' demand in Eastern Province.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(d)  Cooperative Ranches:   Except for one scheme adjoining the
Chisamba Ranch in Central Province and two in Southern Province,
cooperative schemes in livestock have proven difficult to
organize.
(e)  The Barotse Summer Grazing Scheme:    This Scheme was devised to ease
grazing pressure on flood plain areas of Barotse. Suitable high
region timbered grazing areas were negotiated by Government with the
Paramount Chief, on which Government supplied inputs of manage-
ment, water, dips, fences, etc. Stock is moved on to these
areas by the owner, when the flood plain country is seasonally
flooded from the Zambesi river. This scheme, although meeting
difficulties in securing farmer support, is beginning to become
effective.
(f) The Barotse Ranching Development Scheme: This Scheme is an attempt
to establish a large scale dry area unit ranch of approximately 400
sq miles in size. The site adjoins the Angola border in a sand
veldt area estimated to carry about 1 head to 60 acres. 2,000 sq
ml is available to expand this concept. No results are available,
as fencing and water improvements are still being installed.
2.        Among the policies and projects (now being reviewed and worked up
by the Ministry of Rural Development) which are likely to form the basis for
a second phase program are the following:
(a)  a final review and formalization of the land tenure system, neces-
sary to ensure an orderly expansion of livestock development;
(b) the encouragement (financial and technical) of qualified in-
dividual Zambian cattle owners to expand and/or to take up suit-
able abandoned ranches located in Central and Southern Provinces;
(c) an expansion of the Eastern Province Gra.zing Scheme;
(d) financial and management consolidation of CSB Grazier Scheme as
a marketing mechanism for live cattle, both feeder and breeding
stock;
(e)  an expanded ran Thing Project in Western Barotse to embrace a
2,000 sq ml ran'ch unit, developed initially on the North
Australian large scale ranch concept;
(f) technical and economic research into improved pasture systems,
leading to large scale land clearing and pasture establishment
projects, with priority emphasis on tsetse clearances and con-
solidation in Eastern Province;
(g) the establishment of ranching settlement schemes in Eastern
and Southern Provinces similar in concept to the successful
Ankole/Masaka scheme in Uganda;



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(h) the improvement of cattle movement facilities, both through better
stock routes and improved roads for trucking cattle out of Barotse
Province; and
(1) the technical and financial support of additional grazing
associatiohs in Southern and Central Provinces.
3.        To assist the recently created National Lilvestock Development
Group in reviewing these proposals and in incorporating the most viable
projects and policies (with detailed physical and financial breakdowns)
into a program of national livestock development, with subprojects suitable
for financing, funds have been made available in the proposed loan for three-
man-years of internationally qualified consultant services.






ANNEX 5
ZAMBIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Technical Aspects: Maize Feeding, Pasture
Itprgvement and Artifical Insemination
Maize for Beef Feeding
1.        In Zambia it is Government policy to maina;ain an annual reserve of
100,000 tons of maize as well as to satisfy other needs within the country
and to take advantage of possible export opportunities, particularly in the
Congo. Between 1958 and 1963 deliveries of maize to the Grain Marketing Board
increased from 143,000 short tons to 203,000 tons. After Independence
Government price encouragement (and the provision of hybrid seed-(S.R. 52)-
and fertilizer through credit schemes to large and small farmers) caused
de:Liveries to rise as follows:
1964/65        214,000 short tons
1965/66        280,000 short tons
1966/67        410,000 short tons
The Central and Southern Provinces account for 60% of all maize grown.  At
the subsistence 'chitimene' 1/ level of farming, yields may amount to only
one bag (200 lb) to the acre; yields can be raised to 14 bags with fertilizer
an(d hybrid seed. On good land under commercial production yields are much
higher - 25 bags on average and up to 45 bags with good soils and management.
2.        The ratio of the price of maize to the price of cattle has moved
in favor of maize-feeding as a result of the 1968 increase in the beef
price. This as much as any other factor is causing a renewed interest in
the practice on both commercial and traditional farms. The comparative
beef/maize price ratios of several beef producing countries are as follows:
Spain 1:7.7              France 1:8
U.S. 1:11.8              Zambia (a) cost of production of maize
1:14.5
(b) selling price of maize 1:12
From the above, it appears that price returns are relatively favorable, in
which farmers grow maize and keep cattle or as maize growers, farmers and
cooperatives can buy cattle for finishing. The amount of grain needed to
1/   Chitimene is a cropping rotation system used by the traditional sector.
The individuals clear a circle of bush, crop the cleared area until the
soil fertility declines and then move on to new areas on which the
process is repeated.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
produce 1 lb of liveweight gain at a typical fattening age is 8-8½ lb, so
that a unit price ratio of 1:8 or lower is not likely to be profitable.
The implications of maize feeding in relation to the Project are of importance
in raising dairy calves to slaughter weight at 12 to 14 months of age and in
finishing steers for slaughter.
Pasture Improvement
3.        Considerable areas of legume trials have been undertaken through-
out Zambia in recent years, both in Government research institutions and
on private ranches. Legumes such as stylothanses guyanensis (s. gracilis),
phaseolus atropurpureus (siratro) and glycine Javanica are on trial, as
well as introductions to veldt and established pastures of Rhodes, Buffel
and Star Grasses. Success has been achieved from the technical view point,
certainly enough to warrant economic proving trials on Zambia Cattle Develop-
ment Ltd. ranches. Provision has been made in the loan to test the following:
(a) the economics of a pasture improvement experimental
program under ranch conditions;
(b) the most suitable species of grasses and legumes for
large scale applications;
(c) a multiplication scheme for selected types with which
to extend the trials to a commercial scale; and
(d) fertilizer applications (qualitative and quantitative)
for an expanded project and cost determinations on a ranch
broad acre basis.
4.        Little work has been done by the research organizations or ranchers
on determining viable cos0; inputs in land clearing, seed-bed preparation,
fertilizer levels, regrowth control, pasture maintenance, expected carrying
capacities, all of which are necessary before considering an extended use
of pasture improvement principles. Accordingly, funds would be made avail-
able under the Project to undertake the following;
(a) prepare trial plots of about 80-100 acres on each ranch,
broken down into 4 sub-plots, in order to test for pasture
responses to the varying soil conditions which exist on each
ranch;
(b) supplying sufficient seed and fertilizer and application
costs for the proving trials on all of the ranches; and
(c) sufficient funds for seed bed preparation, including land
clearing, burning, windrowing etc. The result!; of these
experiments should be recorded closely and compared with
other areas of the world. Modern up-to-date techniques
should be evaluated.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
International sources of legume and grass seed should also be identified
and priced for use in any second stage project, which may be justified as
a result of these proving trials. Provision would also be made for the
services of an experienced pasture consultant as well as a short-term
consultant experienced in large scale, low-cost land clearing and preparation
techniques.
Artificial Insemination
5.        Two years ago the Zambian Government established an Artificial
breeding center at Mazabuku Research Station. Facilities were established
to
(a) receive and store semen imported from U.K., U.S.A., and
Europe;
(b) manufacture and distribute liquid nitrogen, with sufficient
capacity to meet the Project's requirements and make available
surplus production to meet future demand;
(c) train ranch managers and personnel, commercial farmers
etc. in artificial breeding techniques; and
(d) eventually expand into semen collection, dilution and
preservation.
Local responses to this new facility have been good in that about 4,000
head of cows in the national dairy herd were settled last year with im-
ported semen. Initial target for this program have been determined at
settling 75% of the national dairy herd of 10,000 head and increasing
quantities of beef cows. The overall average conception rate appears
to be about 60% to date on the limited information available to the
mission. This is fairly satisfactory considering the newness of the
Project and the inexperience of the personnel associated with it in Zambia.
Liquid nitrogen supplies are available at 4 centers throughout the country,
Mazabuku Research Station, Lusaka, Kitwe and Livingstone, which is adequate
for an expanded project.
6.        To complement the lack of suitable bulls for the Project ranches,
an artificial inseminating scheme costing about US$113,000 equivalent has
been included. 35,000 ampules of imported beef and dairy semen would be
financed including equipment and services costs, representing 690 bull
equivalents over the 5 years of the program. An experienced Australian
technician is available in the proposed management of the Project, who gained
his experience in Brazil as a ranch manager with King Ranch, breeding 4,000
Zeh.u beef cowt per annum by artificial insemination.
7.        This program will assist greatly in accelerating at economic cost
the herd improvement program of ZCDL ranches.






ZA.PELA                                                                   ANNEX 6
127VEST00K DEVELWP!&T PROJCT
Seven Bralaiasj          meBe.Cnoiae/               08,800 huron
UNITS               Qew"lcpmnt       1          2           3          L56                                 7         6.20
BFElA COMPOSTION
flredtng Co...                             lie.                              6,610       7,949      10,507     12,660      15,629      ia,6 7J.    19,000O    19,000      I.?, o0
Buill                                      Noi50                               369          397        525         633         78.1       93',        950         910         951
CalvOi                           ~~~~~~                      ~    ~~~~No.  15  (3,337)  (5,1?  735)   (,6)       (10,9,0)    (13,07:)   (13,300)    (131,300)   (13, 309~)
9 -2, month    oifers                       NO.                  30          1,359       3,i68       3,133      1s* 728     5,681.      5,170       3,821       3,021      3,B21
9-21 ,,oth Steers                        no.                   35           66?        i,669       2,581       3,677      L,131       5,170      6,535       6,650       6,65co
21- 36 month 11etfer~/                     No.                   75                              -                       --------
21,- 36  -oth  ersNo.                                            52             36          -------
36- 15 month Sneers                         NO.                  80             29          31               -                 -          -           -           -          -
Fatterltng Jail Femaiss                     NO.                 .35            341,        647         763      1,009       1,229       2,271       2,717      7.765       2,765
tOtAl. ff098112                                                         12,941       19.031      25,167     31i569      3e5490      65,667     16,323      t6,1686     1416,-
tOTAl AlIMLA 2TY175 (A/IFs)                                              94132       13,561     17,530      22,202      26,936-    31,6822     31,661      31,803'     31,11L3
Coos                                        go.                                340          310        318         4,20       380         461         160         570        570
Boils                                       No.                                 18           18         16          21          19         23          28          29          29
9? - 21 month Heifers                      No.:                                 68           68        127         137        212         idI         161        115         ijI
9 - 21 month Staeer                         No.                                 33           33         6?         103        110         133         161,        196        20kj
21- 36 month Beifers                        No.                                                        -                       ----                   ---
2n- 36 month Steers                        No.                                   2            2        -------
36- LB month Ntoors                        NO.                                   I            1          I               -          -           -                 -          -
Fantoaln   CLil EeDassN.                                                        1?          17          26         11          30          37         6882                    83
TOM,A-                                  No.                                 179         179         555         713        681         826         981        992         997
FUR1CB&SE3O
Breeding Females 8 - 21, months            NO.                   50            -         1,500         850       1,050      1,010         -           --                     -
BreedIng Co."                               NO.                  90            -            900        750         650        150         -                 -     --
Breedablo Bulls (tocal~'                    No.                 33-                         11          82         19          28         252         io          u           6
T03k, BL                                                                    -         2,531       1,782      1,679       1,72,8        252        i8o         i68         165
SA LES
Steers   9 - 2, nonthsk'                    No.                  60            -            631      1,602       2,681       3,567      k.298       5,306       6,339      6,450
Surplus Boifers 9 -21 months                No.                  50            -            --               -                 -          -         2, 712,     2,829      2,829
Su-plus Bettears 21   36 sootb.            no.                   75            -            -          -                      -                     1 - 2.269     -          -
Steers   36 - Lemonths                     No.                  110             l8           18         33         --                     -           -           -          -
cull Betters   9 - 24 monthse               No.                  30             65          65         152         165        2,59        532         531         371        371
cull Breeding Coos                         No.                   95            j21,         3237       621         732        979       1,191       2,206      2,635,      2,662
Bulls                                       NO.                  90             iS           BB         38          50         6i.         16         136         139~       139
TorA.                                   Na,                                425       1,132       2,116       3,128       5.8066     6,097      12,162     22,323      22,.7
HLIDS (50% of deaths)                                                            210         210         27B         356        310         413        192         196         198
PBUEICTIOB At
fe,hnlcal C-.fflieo.te    9
Itrtollty (adultcattle)                  %                                    5                        ,1333
caloms uetanod rate                      6                                    60          60 6,       65          70          70         70          70          70         70
CoaandBolleoiie&i                                                           5           25-        10          10          10          15         15          11         15
liefam  n .e (91-21 months)          9                                    5            3           5          5          10          1o         10          10          10
Carrying Copacity                        AnImal unlts/core                     1,20        1,20        1,20        1,17       1,15        2:13        1,13       1:13        1:13
St-ocking Rate                           Arissal trnite,enre                   1s13        1,30        1,23        1.18       1;,15       1:13        1,17        1:13       1:12
Offt,akc                                 9                                     3            6         10          11          13         13          26          27         27
Bulls JOcined                            No/Breedina Cows                      1:18         1:20       1:20        1,20        1:20       1:20        1%20        1:.20      1:20
VALLE tF SAtESAM 2 PURICHASES lin D?ACUA)
A. Parcchase,
Brmeedng Femalesa 9 - 2), months                           50            -        75,Om       12,502     52,503      52,500         -                      --
Brsedlo0 team                                              90            -        SI,O        67,500     12,5D3      10,500D- 
Breedable Dol-ls                                          300            -         0,200     51,6o0      53,700     66,100      75,603      51,00o     50,10(2     20 100
70111. P81R125125                                                            196,20D     166.600    146,700     162,100      75.W0      51,000      50,2,0      50,4000
3.solesa
Steers            9-2L months                             60            -         38,012      86,1i20   18, 860     211,,020   257,880     318,36o     380,310     , ~ 7B, Oo
Surplus HeifTers  9-21 monthes                            50            --                                  -            --                135,703     111,150    14,4,l,t
Surplos 4ette.rs 2.-36 months                              75           -                        ----                                       95,175         -           -
Steers           36-L8 months                            110          1,980          -           --                     -           ---
Cull SeLlers      9-24, months                             30         1,950        1,950       1,560      1,950      13,770     15,960      15,930      11,130     11,130
Call Breeding Cowe                                         95        30,780       31.065      58, 95     69,510      93,006    113,11,5    209,5710    250,325    251,790
Cull Bails                                                90          1,62D       7,920       3,420       L,500      5,190       6,82,0    i2,260      12,510      12,510
TO-ottL sag                                                      36,330       78,975     16.6j9og   227,850     326,285     393,625     766,975    795,755     606 .BS0
l/  'Before develapmnet:' represents the. date of appraisal and is the begnnsslng of the first development year with toe herd composition shoen as opening in-rntory
2'At appraisal approximately 50% of toes had calved.     rherefore, cats-SIng figures are estimates anPlied to the breeding herd daring that year
3/  (ettr3 are rela,etfled Into the breeding hierd and am too calf' as 2-3 year oldsa
LiBreedabie bulls Include artlifcial lnsestnattoh -opilementatten for the first 5 years of the Project
~/Steer. are sold at about 14& months of age at ahoot 530 lb. liveweight
During Tear I of the prjojet, Oj, order to clean up the herd, 2589 of boll battery, Is coiled and 10% of cow herd.      Thereafter 110-15% beak for hetm  hlsad cow,s






LIVNSTOCS DSVEL4PIBN? PMOnO?
Bull Breed       ,nh    1  010 acre.
B.efors1 
Value
HEM) COmnsa6C?oN
Stud Breeding Cown                       No.                   100           1,272         1,266       1,385       1,380       1,300       1,300       1,300       1, 300
Bulls                                    So.                   200              64            63          69          69          65          65          65          65
Calve&'/                                 So.                    25             979)         C 97k)    (1, co)     (1,105)     (1,105)     (1,105)     (1,105)     (1,1L05)
9_-21 monyth Heifers                     NO.                    So             351.          L89         169          99         163         163         163         163
9 -24 mon'th Bulls                       no.                   130             102           490         4.78        544         553         553         553         553
9 -24 aonith Steers                      Mo.                    55             292            --                     -           -           -           -           -
2..-36 'sooth Hale frs M/ o.                                   100                            -                      --                      ---
24-36 amuth Bull                         No.                   200              61             95        1.56        1.16        507         51.2        542          542
24-36 montLb Steera                      No.                    so              92            -          -           -           -           -           -            -
Fattening Cual Fenaiss                   NO.                    85             318           312         310         136         135         12B         128          126
TOTAl NIrMBS                                                              3,534         ),48,       3,956       3,7T79      3,828       3,856       3,856       3,856
TOTAL ANIMAL UNITS (Wus)                                                  2,396         2,559       2, 712      2,606       2,656       2,687       2,687       2,687
DEATHS5
Cows                                     No.                                    25             25         25          27          27           26         26          26
Bulls3                                   No.                                     1              1           2          2           2           2            2           2
9 -21.mntnhlHe tfen Sao.                                                         7              7         10          10           9          10          10          10
9 -2Lhon:h Bulls                         So.                                     2              2         10           9          11.         11          11          41
9 -24 month Steers                       no.                                     6             6         ----                                                        -
2t-36 mon'th Heifers                     Bo.                                                 -------
21.-36mon,6h Bulls                       so.                                     1              1         -2           9           9          10          10          10
24-36 month Steena                      Nt.                                      1              1              -                 -           ----
Fattening Cull Femmale                   SO.                                     6             6           6           6           3           3           3           3
707*1L                                So.                                    4.9           49          55          63          61          62          62          62
tE C HASES
Breedirg lieAers 9-21. months            Nto.---                                                         -                       ----
Breeding Cows                            No.                    -                             -------
Breedable Bulls (Local)                   o.300                                  a             10         18          12           8          12          12          12
Breadabla Bulls (Impots)eo -                                            --------
to TE                                 No.                                     a            10          18          1 2          8          1 2         1 2         1 2
SALES
Surplus Holfere     9-21. asaths         No.                    60             ---287                                            1.91.       363         363         363
Surplus MoiLfere  21.-36 months          NO.                   100                                -                  -           -           -----
Surplus Buills     9-21. months          No.                   20              -            -            -           -           -           -           -           -
Surplus Bulls     21.-36 nmoths          So.                   300             -            -             93         1.7         1.7         L97         531         531
Steern              9-21. maths          NO.                    65             286           286         -.--                                                        -
CulllHsifoirm       9-21.maths           No,                    1.01                   16                 25          23          21.         27          27          27
CulliBulls         9-21.maths            No.                    65               5            5           25          23          26          27          27          27
CullBuhlls   (ageda &Wsterile)           No.                    90               9             9          10          10          10          10          11          311
Cuall fatteining Cows                    No.                    95             312          312          306         301.        133         132         125         125
Steers             214-36 mcniths        No.                    85              92           92          -           --                      -           -           -
TC'AI                                 No.                                   720          720         1.59      1,091.      1,121.      1.0o56      1,084       1.081.
HIDES (50% ot deaths)                                                              21.         21.           27          32          30          31          31          31
PRUETXTON 111TA
cttltialattle)                 S                                       2            2            2           2           2           2           2           2
Calves Veerd Sate                      %                                      77            77          80          50          85          85          85          55
Cres culled                            5                                      25           25           25          10          10          10          10          10
Bulls culled                           5                                      10           10           15          15          15          15          15          15
Bull Cslvasculled                      %                                       5             5           5           5           5           5           5           5
HBerer culled (9-24 months)            %                                       5'            5            5          5           5           5           5           5
Car3yiog CapCity                       Animal Untits/ekon                      1:17 1.               7         1.?   17          10 7              1:7   1,?17
Stccirwi Bat.                          Animal AUita/aem                        Is?          147          1.7         1s7         1.7         1:7         1:?         1:7
Oittake                                %                                      20           16           12          29          29          2)          28          28
Bulls 3oimnd                           No/Breeding Cow                         1,      120         1:20  1:20 1:20               1:      20        1:20  1,2         120
VALUE CIP PIICKLS&S AM) SALES (in MC")
A. Purchases
1m-flw1e Bulls                                                         2.1400      3,000        5,1.oo      3,600       2,4.00      3,600       3,600       3,600
E. Sales
lUrplus Belfars     9-24 flotha                            60             -                         -        1,220       29,640      21,780      21, 780     21,780
Surplus Bulls    24-36 months                            300             -            -         19,600      89,1.00    87,1.oo      99,100    106,200     106,200
Steers 9-21 anoths                                       65           18,590       18.590                      -                 -----
Cull Heifars                                              s0            6(AO          61.0       1,000         920         960       1,080      1,060        1,080
Cull Bulls 9.21. months                                  65              325          325        1,625       1,1.95     1,560       1,755       1,755       1,755
Cull Bulls (sterile)                                      90             81           810          900         901         goo         900         900         900
Cull Cow                                                  95          29,61O       29,61.0     29,070      28,880      12,635      12,540      11,875      11,8375
steers 24-36 math                                         85           7,620        7,820          -           -           -           -           -           -
TOTAL. 51155                                                       57,825        57.825      52,195     138,815     133,095     137,1.55    143,590     143,590
I/ "Before developaent" represents the date of appraisal and in the begisaing of the first davelOPment yeaLr with the herd ca¶posltion sho,wn as opening inventory
/ Lti apprateal approximately 50% of cows had caIlsd. Therefore, ealybng figures are sestimates applied to tim broeding herd during that year
/Heifers are reclassified into the breeding herd and are in cal-f as 2-3 year olds
/Breedable bulls include artificial insemlnatlon supplementation for the first 5 years of the Project






O.0'.'.J,C  '--00  '2  ~   '.0  0'.  '.0'  ~ .0  0  '.-.  '.fl0'.Q,.'.40~  44  44  CJ414OIQ
"-.4.04  C  -  -  -  -  .0-  .0'.  4-'-4'.-4   04  a  0 -
I'Ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~4; w: 
ii.-
0- I-K 0-~~~~~~~~~ N                                N~ 4-  5
as~~~~l040
N     H   N   E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
Tli~~~
400 00  !51~*'r                                                tc  -






A?IN ii 6
Timwodel tmoo-rledM BndnWai1ecm                     10.000 acorns
EDL OF SIMOH YEARS
Before
URTS            D~~ovelw  tV      I2                      3            1.5                      6               2
Breeding Cows                        No.                             1,160          1,656       2,680       4,122       6,915        6,300       6,300        6,300
Balla 21           No.                  IND           u~~~~~69      8Th         13          2`0t         21.5        315          315         313
-a. Month lettfers                go.                   j0          348            668        1.,47      1,855L      2,574        1,26'        1,26'       1.2167
9 -Us nwth Steers .1 J.                                    4                          31.6        637        601        1,339        1,721       2,205        3, 2015
2L,-36 mnIbtheHOn;.o.                                     50           33                                     -                        -            - 
36-IL6 montih Steers                 Mo.                  80           326                                                -            -            -      
Futisoing Doll Peffals.              it.                  85           113            110         138         252         602          715          907
I,--.T" 3m  as  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    .3¶3           3 409       6,18 PO'9,522          22,.119      -IL,'2        S.U.aL     15,lLL
Tin&  also    wa.S (vs/f                                          262.1          25 -80      4,80"       IL.Uj       2371         5,096:     !0,545       lo, 5J.
Cove                                 no.                                5t             S           73         107         165          167         189          169
Bulls                                go:                                 3              2           4           5                        7            99
9 .32, month Holeifr                 go.                                17             17          32          59          76           77          318          )a
9 -24aonthBSteers                   lit.                                17             17          17          17          32           Lo          52           66
24-36 month Holfers                  No.                               -              -                 -                 --
26-36 mactb Steers                   NO.                                17             17                     - 
Fatteclcu  WIl FesLlse               Be.                                 6              6           6           6          10          lB           21           78
Stesro (36-4e months)                NO.                                16             16         -                 -            -                  --
torn Ai                            o.                               lIt133                     132        191.         269         289          309          330
PURCHAISE
Breading Notfone 9-264 mnths         go.                  50           -300                     1,050      1,050        1.231,         -           -            -
BReading Cow,'                       No.                   90-                        15     50         45     0 5        ----
Bread&bls DullsA                    lbcl)5.              300           -                2          25          90          72           c6          60G4c
'WAl                    ~~~~No.                                           L 92       1,575      1,690       L.36            96a          L:          JO
Steer ldoo re     9-26 amonh         sa.                   60          -331.                      331        1.20         722        1,299       1,669        2,139
surplus Hatfers   9-24 man tos       i o.                 50           --                         -          -            -            453         936          938
Surplus Heifers 24-36 monts          Mc.                   73 5                             -           -           -                  -           -            -
Cull Heifers      9-24 months        No.                  30            17             17          31          72         1-28         250         123          123
Coll fattesd Cows                    Ito.                 95            55            107         106        1,32         267          564         69)4         659
cull Bulls                           go.                   90            3            1.1           7          13          20          26           30           3
Steers 26-36 months                  Ma.                   82          -              321         --                      -            -           -            -
Stears 36.48 months                  No.                  110          312            312               -           -                        ----
MAIL                                                                387         1,096          473        637        1,217       2,610        3,b55       6,1203
iimEs  (50% of dona)ha.                                                   67             66          66          97         165          165         15L.         i65
tcn caCo-rffloionta
SUFT~-  2ta.1catt1E)               %                                   5              $           5           1            ,323
oalres (Vstand rate)              %                                  60             60          60          65          70          710          70 C.0~
Cow and     fls cullot/                                                5             20S         10          1a          iS          13           25           15
Helferscul.led (9-21,n,tha)                                            5             5            5          5           10          10           10           IC2
.anytna  capacity                 Animal. lotte/smor                  1,12           1t12         1,12       1.10        1,104        1,11C        tao         1:12'
So-king Rate                      Animal tnite/acre                    1.42          L143         I2,23      1,2. 25:12:I                    1:11110           1:10
Itf tako                          %                                   12             31           7          6            9           it          22           77
Buxlls 3oimd                       HO/Breeding cows                    2,26          1,20         1:20        1,20        1i20         1:20        1:2c         1:22
VALLUE OF 1A188 JL80 FORCaES    (inmAHA
Tr*'CTW- Hailers                                     50           -          15,ooo       52,Soo     52,500       61.70) 
Breeadial Cows                                      90-                     13,500i      40,500     W,50) 
Breedabl.a Bulls                                   300           -12,600                 22,500     27,000       21,60o      29,400       12,0D0      12,O00
TorAL r'oromss                                                -           61,10       2,500     1i2, 00        53,300      29,400       12,000      12,000
I~mr.Vusnsn  9-24 ,mthm                         60           -          19,860       19,861     25,200      46,320       77,94.0    100,16,0     128,060
39surpla   tsfere9-24& mnths                        50          --                          -          -            -        22,650      46,900       L6,900
Ctll awaten      9.t21 amotJ                        30           610           510          930      2,160       5,340        7,500       3,690        3,690
Cull fatnemod Oem                     ~~~        ~~~          ~~~~96  ,2  10,165  9,880  12,540    23,465       55,1,80     65,930       6h4,55
Coll lULls                                          910         270            990          630      1,170       1,800        2,200       2,9L.5       2,945
Steine        24-36  'mtto                          52        .-2,2 
Steer   (fat)  36-66 months                       2n0        245320         34,320          ------
"OAL *185                                                  1.0325         92,2647     31,3CM      41t,070     76,925      166,850      213,605     066,03
1)/ 'Eeform do"an1osm. rmrpresnts the, date Or anPnLimal ad 1o Usw beginning of toe first do-lepysnt roar wItb the her          cap.10achesm gpetinm           nvenc
At spraoalo,pozlater 50  ofcow  ha  caled  Therefore, csaving figures &ar estimates enPiled to the breeding herd durng, that yeAr
~/Heifers are reclassified into the brooding bard and are in calf am 2-3 yeaLr aids
Breeder bolsL include arttifiil Insemination supplementation for the first 5 years of tho project
YSteers are sold at about 16 month. of age at about 500 lb livmmightv
During Year I of toe ,ntJect, In ardor io clewn up the herd, 25% af hall battery to culled and 10% of aow hard, Ylenaftsr 10-15% peak for both bulls and -os






ZAMBIA                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AThINK5 6
it-BIA                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table S
LrvES¶0CK flfltO!`IfNT REJECT
Dairy Fare Moe       b-(oo Milking Cows
(,htR  Acres)
-     ------ Dairy        F         a    rmYearr                                    s ---------- -----
1  2              3                  1                 ~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 67-"
Herd Cornpouition (and of year)                           26                 7                 1                  7                 7                  7                  7
CDws in Milking Fiw ')                   ~265               3147              1                 7                  7                 77
(C.v. tn Milk Dailyl/                      2            (302(330)                            (363)              {oo()             ,..,Cn)
(Ccw.vsL-9 Mik   aiy)                                                   3 65d.             12                ou57              512              'I~
He, fers (8-2k months)                               111:                                 166S               199               208                225
Steers   (5-14 macthe)                               -119                                 166                159               703
Total                                             639             1,07               1,266             i,Wo               :,L89             1,5321             1,5,32
Animal Units                                      131               782                931k            1,010o             1,089             1,125              I'll?,
Purc]hases (No. )
7sifere Cmn-calf) Improved (180K)                     165               100                                  -                  ---
Heifers (tn-calf) Local (120K)                       100                 35----
Heilfers (8-2h months) (BOX)                         ill                -                 -                  -                 -                  - 
Total                                             379               135----
Deaths                                                       6/
Milking Herd                                           IC5                                  9                 10                11                'Ii1
Calves                                                10                 23                33                 37                hi                 1,5 
Hefers (8-24 months)                                   1                  3                 3                  5                 6                  6                 7
Steers (8-14 -months)                                -                                      5                  6                 6                  7 
Total1                                             15                 35                10                58                 6),5                                 7)
Technical Coefficients
Calving Intervl (onths)5,                             13.5               13.5              13.5               13.5              13.5               11.5               -3.5
Calving Rate (S) (annual)>128                                   88                88       3         8                 83       89                 8                 $81
Lactation Length (amoths)                             10                 10                10                10                 10                 11)               I 0
Cows in Milk (5                                       7O                 70                70                75                 70)                70                73)
Mortality Rate    -calves ()9                                             9                  9                 9                 9                  9 
Mortality Rate    -cows     ()2                                           2                 2                  2                 2                  2
Mortality Rate   - hefers(%)                           3                  3                 3                  3                           3                 3
Mortality Rate    -asteers (5)                         3                  3                 3                  3                 3                  3                 21
Culling Rate     - cows    (5                         10                 10                10                10                 20                 20                20
Culling Rate     - halfars(%)                         1:0                                  10                10                 13                 13                1
Average Marketed Milk Producticn
per Milking Cow - daily/gallons                      1.6                3.8               1.9                1.9               1.9               1.91               1.9
Average Marketed Milk Production
per Milking Cow - annual/gallon                    600               650                700               700                700               700                7'0
Sales (No.)7901930230025,020,0                                                                                                                   2800
Milk (gallons)-                                   7920             29630               31600            2541028,020002 n)
Colt Covens6h65                                                                                                                112               112                112
Cull Helfers                                         -                   11                11                 16                18                 222?
Surplus Heifers                                      -                  -                 -                  32                 42                53                 77
Fattened Steers                                      -                 los                161               183                202               222                222
Revenue (K)
lTT-k (0.37 per gallon)9/                           29,300             72,600            85,500             91,100           103,600           103,601            103,600,
cull cows (ll0)±2/                                   -               2,900              5,100             5,600            12,300             12,301             12,300
Cull Heifers (70)                                    -800                                 800             1,100              1,300             IL,L5O             1, 500
Surplus Heifers (120)1                               --                                   -               3,800              5,000             6,Lc0              9,205
Fa,ttened Stersr  (125)-1                            -              114.00             20.100            22.90C            25,200             27,500             27L,570
Total                                          29.300            90, 700          111,500            127.500           147.100            151.500           15.100
I/  Of total 'ICows in Milking Herd" 70% will be in milk as a daily average during the year except for thes first year whlse 508 of dove,, calving heifer, (purchased)
will be i. milk. Calving is all the year and not seassnally.
2/ In Tsar 1, 260 out of 265 purehaeed in-calf hetters win calve doswn during the year. Osn average, 50% (132) of these purchases will be in mnilk daily duerThg
this year. The 11.1 hetters (8-21 months) purchased in this year will be inseminated to calve in Year 2.
3/ About 7(15 (231) of herd cantied forward frms previous year (331 will be in milk dailyr during year plus 50% (68) of in-calf heiters purchased (135) duoring
year.
4i   Calves equal to 0.2 of animal unit.
j/  About 95% of purchased in-cal-f hei-ferm   calve in year plum 88% of milking herd broaght forward fros. prevw-isa year.
6/  Deaths in Year 1 are equal to one-half of normal mortality for full year as it Is estimated that the full samber of purchases will he phased ini over the year,
7/  All replacement heifers asauned to be in salf.
G/  on averbge, cows in milk will produce 750 gallons per acornt of Which 50 gallane will be needed for calf rearing.
9/   Rasic producer   price of K 0.35 plus K 0.02 per gallon premium for qusality test.
I2/ Cull1 cows - 1,100 lb liveweight X 50% cdw X K 0.20/lb - K 110.
11/ Fattenedi dairy steers 80 lb liveweight I 56% edv I K 26 - K 125 sold to Cold Storage Board.






u11NNEX 6
Z.M4BIA                                             Tahle r
LIVESTCCK DEVE0PMENT 7ROJECT
(1,t5nO Acrets)
Before             - - - - - - - - --P r o                e c t       Y e a r s                 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Development         1               2              3              8               S              6             7->)
Herd Composition (end of year)
Cows in Milking Herd11                             72            h00             377            h00      OO    400             5               on50
(Cows ir. Milk Daily)-                            (So)          (211)2/         (280))         (280)          (280)            230)          (290)
Calves  '                                          63            386             352            332            352             352            352             392
Heifers (8-24 months)                              28             28             175            160            150             160            169            It 
Steers  (8-lh months)                              29             29             176            160            151             160            160
Total                                          192            80           l,8Bo           1,052          1,052           1,072          1,0?2
Aninal Units (a.u.)                              2                            798            786            771             790            792             79'
Purchases (No.)
Heifers (in-calf) Improved (IBOK)                 -              2r0             -              _              _               _              _
Heifwes (in-calf) Local     (120K)                -                0
Heifers (8-2l months)       ( 8OK)                -              -               _              -              -                _              _
Total                                                         320
Deatho (No.)
Milking Herd                                        2              2               8              7              8               8              8 3
Calves                                              6              6              35             32             30              32             32             32
Heifers (8-2A months)                               1              1               1              5              5                              5
Steers (8-lb mon-hs)                                1              1             _                5                              5              5
Total                                           10             10              86             h7             h7              h9             50             5:1
Techunic.al Ccefficients
Calving Interval (months)4                         13.5           13.5            13.5           13.5           13.5            13.5           13.5           13.5
Calving Rate (8) (annual)>                         88             88              88             88             88              8r             83             3'
Lactation Length (months)                          10             10              10             1C             1               1J             10 ID
Cows in Milk 1%)                                   70             7n              70             70             70              7C7            70             79
Mortality Rate - calves (%)                         9               9              9              9               9              9              0
Mortality Rate - covs    (S)                        2               2              2              2              2               2              2               7
Mortality Rate - heifers(%)                         3              3               3              3              3               3              3               3
Mortality Rate - steers (%)                         3              3               3              3              3               3              3               3
Cuoling Rate - cows (5)                            20             20              10             20             20              2n             20             f2`
Cuoling Rate - heifers (8)                         10             10              10             10             10              10             10             10
Average Marketed Milk Production
per Milking Cow - daily/gallons                   1.9            1.6             1.8            1.9            1.9             1.9            1.9             1.9
Average Marketed Milk Production
per Milking Cow - annual/gallons                700            600             650            700            700             700            700            7 C
Sales (Nc.)
MillX (gallons)-/                              35,000        128,LOO         196,000        196,000        106,000         196,000        196,0o0        196, oo
Cill Co.s                                                  18     lb             hO              71             78             79              73             7
Cull Heifers                                        3              3               3             17             16             15              16             16
Surplus Heifers                                     8            -               -               SO             53              85             53              5
Fattened Steers                                    28             28             171            155            107            155             155            154
Revenue
6/
MS1lk (K D.37 per  9llonP                      12,900         87,500          72,500         72,500         72,500          72,500         72,500         72,50(c
Cull Cows (K 110)_                              1,500          1,500           8,400          8,100          8,600          8,6oo           8,6oo         3I r6
Cull Heifers (K 70)                               200            200             200          1,200          1,100           1,100          1,100          1, 120
Surplus Heifers (K 120)                         1,000            -               -            6,000          6,800          5,hOO           6,100          6,400
Fattened Steers (K 125)-                        35°0           3,500         21,400          19,400         18,h0          19,8h0          19, 00         19,hO-
Total                                       19,100         52,700         98,500         107,200        107,300        107,000         108 o000       l0P,-)_
1/ Of total "Cows in Milking Herd' 70% will be in milk as a daily average during the year except for the first year when 521 of purchased in-calf heifers will re in
milk. Calving is all the year and not seasonally.
2/ In Year 1, 316 out of the 320 purchased in-calf heifers will calve down during the first year of the Pro7ect.     On average, 5o% (158) of these will be in milk dail
during the year plus 70% (56) of the milking herd carried forward (80) from the previous year.
3/  Calves equal to 0.2 of an anrmal unit.
/ All replacement heifers assumed to be in calf.
5/ On average, cows in milk will produce 750 gallons per annsm of which 50 gallons will be needed for calf rearing.     About 20% will give 600 gallons, 20S 700 gallons
and 60% 800 gallons.
6/ Basic producer price of K 0.35 plus X 0.02 per gallon premixe fLwr quality test.
7/ Cull cows * 1,100 lb liveweight 1 5o% cdv X K 3.20/1b - K 110.
8/  Fattened dairy steers * 850 lb liveweight X 56 cdw X K 26 - X 125 sold to Cold Storage Board.






ANNEX 7
ZAMBIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ranch and Dairy Farm Areas and Capacities
Area      Carrying Capacity
Category and Name            Province        (Acres)     (Animal Units)
Breeding/Weaning Ranches
Chisamba                     Central          37,510         2,800
Kitwe                        North Western    70,000         5,300
Mkushi                       Central          46,250         3,500
Solvezi                      North Western   106,770          7,000
Kalomo                       Southern         80,000         6,000
Mugoto/Wolverton             Southern         20,000          2,800
Katete/ChinJara              Eastern          48,260         4,700
No. 8                        Southern or
Central          55,000          5,300
No. 9                        Southern or
Central          55,000          5,300
Breeding/Fattening Ranches
Mbala                        Northern        109,000          6,000
Chishinga                    Luapula         104, 770        5,800
Bull Breeding Ranch
Monze                        Southern         20,000          2,700
Dairy Farms
Gravetts                     Central           1,500            800
No. 2                        Southern or
Central           3,500          1,000
No. 3                        Southern or
Central           3,500          1,000
No. 4                        Southern or
Central           3,500          1,000
No. 5                        Southern or
Central           3,500          1,000






ANNEX8
Table 1
Z&MBIA
LrVVSTCK DEVELOP?W1T P!WJRCT
Beef Raniche. Op-rting Coati;
units          1              2             3              65                          6              7
Breading Weaning Ranchee (408,790 acre.)
Headq-aters Coat                                           35,800         35,800        35,800        35,800         35,800        35,800         35,800        35,809)
Ranch Managanent                                           70,280         70,280        70,280        70,280         70,280        70,280         70,280        70,28')
Rent                                                        4,088          6,088         4,088         6,088          6,088         6,088          6,088         L-8
Labor                                                      43,890         67,888        56,875        68,892         76,067        77,008         76,529        7L,5291
Dipping                                        0.57         7,902         10,153        12,655        15,354         18,059        19,596        18,182         19,132
Veterinary                                     0.6           0,318        10,687        13,321        16,162         19,009        20,627         19,139        1,3
S.pple,et.ry Feeding end Mineral.              3.00        41,592         53,636        66,606        80,808         95,0646      103,136         95,697        95,617
Tractor Operating                              0.33         6,575          5,878         7,327         8,889         10,655        11,365         10,527        10',527
Water Oeaig0.20                                             2,773          3,562         6,660         5,387          6,336         6,876          6,380         6,3Rn
Ranch Ornperating                                           8,900          8,900         8,900         8,900          8,900         8,900          8,900         9,Q"0
Mntrenean rt-15,610                                                    23,538        27,738        29,760         30,810        30,986         30,996        30,986
Horses                                                      1,800          2,070         2,190         2,490          2,690         2p.90          2,0.0         2,600
Repl-ac.eet Costa                                             -             -             -              -             -           1,016          18,016        19,016
Boll Porch....                                               -              -             -             -              -           56,000         50,600        51,!,00
Subtotal                                               265,328        276,280       310,220       346,790        375,360       663,166       665.616        665,611
Contingencies (10%)                                        26,533         27,628        31,022        36,679         37,536        66,315         L6,561        46,511
Total                                                  269,861.       303,908       361,262       381,669       612,876        509,661       .,89, 955      105~'9,55
k-srge Cost in K per A.0.                                       19.5          17.1          15.6           16.2          13.0          16.8           15.6         I15.;,
Br-ding Fattening Ranches (216,'000 a-re)I
B.adqOartewoCost                                           13,600         13,4.00       13,6,00       13,6,00        13,6,00       13,100         13,600        13,100
Bench Mmnagemoent                                           26,160        26,160        26,160        26,160         26,160        26,160)        26,16o        26,160
Rent,                                                        2,160O        2,16,0        2,1610        2,160          2,160         2,160          2.1L0         2,110
Labor                                                      12,673         16,056        15,003        21,027         22,665        27,626         27,666        27,716
Dipping                                        0.60         2,577          3,607         3,975         5,330          6,301         7,031          6,935         7,085
Veterinary                                     0.63          2,706         3,577         4,176          5,597         6,616         7,382          7,282         7,665
Supplementary Feeding an  Minerals             6.20        18,039         23,868        27,825        37,313         66,108        69,216        68,566         69,596
Tractor Operating                              0.37         1,589          2,101         2,651          3,287         3,886         6,336          6,276         6,369
Water OprsrtlnL/                               0.07            301           37            4666          622            735           820            809           827
Rmanh7rasop ort~                                             2,700         2,700         2,700          2,700         2,700         2,700          2,700)        2,700)
M    aItnance 2                                            6,022         8,600          9,797        10,655        10,966         11,676        11,676         11,067
Horses                                                        480            560           720            720           860           860            860           9650
Rep Iaesment Costa                                                          -             -              -                          6,067          6.067         6,067
BoIL Purchaaea                                               -              -             -             -              -15,300                   12,900         12,910
3ubtotal                                                88,787       100,926        108,809       128,751       160,675        176,676       170,975        172,699
Contingencies (10%)                                         8,879         10,093        10,881        12,875        16,067         17,667        17,270         17,270
total                                                   97,666       111,019        119,690       161,626       156,522        191,921       188,265        189,969
Aeer.ge Coot in K per k. U.                                    22.7           19.6          18.1           15.9          16j.7         16.1.          i6.i          16.i
Breeding Weaning Ranches (110,100 acres)
Headquarter. Coat                                            -            16,000        16,000        16,000         16,000        16,000        16,000         16,99)'0
Ranch Managesment                                             -15,280                   27,280        27,280         27,280        27,280         27,280        27,251)
Ren t-                                                                     1,100          'o    1,100          1,100) 1,100                1,100          1,1001,0
Labior                                                       -           10,9158        13,185        16,002        22,173         23,126        26,077         26,077
Dlipping                                       0.57           -1,671                     2,760         6,055          5,345         5,677          6,011         6,011
Veterinaxry                                    0.60o                       1,568         2,886         6,268          5,626         5,976          6,327         6,327
Supplementary Feeding end Minerala             3.00          -7,760                     16,621        21,362         28,131        29,880        31,635         31.635
Tra-tor Operating                              0.33          -851                        1,586         2,3468         3,096         3,287          3,680         3,690
Wat-. Operating,                               0.20           -516                         961         1,623          1,875         1,992          2,109         0,1009
Smoob Traingrt6(                                                           2.6D0         2,400          2,600         2,600         2,600          2,607         2,609
Maintenance-                                                               4 ,266        6,368          9,212         9,778         9,806          9,826         9,926
Horase                                                        -              680           4.80           860           860           86       0            8691,0
Replacement -Costs                                                   -                    -              -             -            6,807          6,807         6,807
Bull Purchases                                                -             -             -             --                         12,000         12,000        12,000
!3ubtata1                                                 -           60,608         87,405       106,270       121,662        162,189       065,892        165,092
Contingencies (10%)                                          -             6,061         8,760        10,427         12,166        16,219        16,589         16,589
Total.                                                    -            66,669        96,165       116,697        133,806       156,608       160,68i        160,181
RrA-ge Coet in K per A. LT.                                  -                25.8          20.0          16.1           16.3          15.7           15.2          15.2
Boll Brooding Raneh (18,600 acres) 
Headquarters Cost                                           3,000          3,000         3,000         3,000          3,000         3,000         3,D00          3,077
Bench Management                                           11,600         11,600        11,600        11,600o       11,600         11,600        11.600         11,610
Rent                                                          186            18            184           18             186           186           186            186
Labor                                                       7,825          7,122         7,016         7,066         7,0917         7,097         7,097          7,097
Dipping                                        0.57         1,947         1,566          1,685         1,516         1,532          1,532         1,532          1,532
Veterinary                                     0.60         2,049          1,627         1,564         1,596          1,612         1,612         1,612          1,612
Supplesenta,ry Fssding end Rizasra.s           3.60        12,296          9,763         9,382         9,562          9,673         9,673         9,673          9,673
Tractor Operating                              0.33         1,127            895           860           876            887           887           887            887
Wtatr Operating,                               0.20           683            562           521           531            537           537           537            537
Reach. Traoqrt,!/                                           1,500          1,500         1,500         1,500         1,500          1,500         1,500          1,500
Maintenance-                                                3,042          6,500         4,5o0         6,5oo         6,500          6,500         6,500          6,500
Horses                                                        680           6480           680           680           680            680           680           690
Replacessent Coot.                                           -              -             ---                                       2,205         2,205          2,205
B,1ll Purchase.s                                                     -             -                    -             -             3,600         3,600          3,600
.Iubt.tal                                               65,731        62,759         62,0912       62,607        62,602         1,8,607       68,607         68,607
Conhingencieo (10%)                                         6,573         6,276          4,209         6,261         4,260          6,861         6,861          6,861
7otal                                                   50,3014        67,035        66,301        66,668        66,862         53,268        53,268         53,218
Av'eirag Cost In K per A. [J.                                  16.7           17.3          17.8          17.6          17.4           19.8          10.8           19.8
Total Oporating Coate                                          617,8131       528,631       603,378       686,660       768,066        911,038       893,653       893,653
71/ Frm M&ng.-tn and g.eneral-vetic1e running     est- incIoiaing fnel, oil., reais      oplaoemot ca     aicln.nb,
Y/' Calcolated on capital coat,, at the fol1osing percentages - fencing 6%, rod    %    ater 5%, buIldings 2V~, handlng unita and spray races 5%, ffasitosoving
eao11hjmery 10%, ao-mwooving machinery 5%.






LIVES7OCK DEV    FM,0 UT PIOJECT
Daryer,a       t   b~.tn  Caste
o              i             2             3              4i             5             67                              "
Iravette Dairy Pare.
Hleadqaartsrs Cant                         2,300          2,300         2, 300         2,300         2,300          2,300         2,30'1           "no02 0'
Pa-  K-age.eit                             6,000          6,000o        6,000          6,700o        6,000          6,000o        6,0, ON          000
Rmt                               ~~~           ~~~~~15  is     is5           1 5            15            1 5            105           10q 
L:!bonr                                      750          3,150         3,960          6, 200        6,200          4,200         6,200)        11 In'0"
Veternryad Spraying                          150            630           790            860           860            960           98671
Purchased Feed                             1, 000         6,200         5,280          5,600         5,600          5, 6oo        5,600,         -
Cropping end Pature. Feed                  2,000          8,600        10,560        11,200         11,200         11,200        11,20)         01, 
T,-enert                                     250          1,050         1,320          1,600         1,600          1 b.600       1,40")                        I
Mai~tenance                                  850          3,570         6,690          6760          6,760          6,760         6,767          -.""
Ro!plane-tet  Caste                          900            -             -              -             --                         toOL)          I'l 
Ar~tificial Instain200                                      --                           -             -              -           1,207                         1 5
H.12w ReI.rn                               1,600         1,600          8,010         7,200          8,000         9,000          307
St,eer Rearing                             200            2,030        11,200         1010          11,200         11,200        11,20')        i
Sobctatl                               17,815         27,365        53,915         53.665        s5.iso         05,180        61,753         061 -
C-ntingencies (10%)                        1,800          2,700         5,4oo          5,400         5, 5o0         5,500         6,20')         6,) 00
Total (rounded)                        19,600         30.ODD        59,300         59,100        60,700)       60,700         68,00          "'00E.-,
Dairy Fan, No. I
HoIadqu.rt-r bet                             -            2,900o        2,90           2,900         2,900          2,900         0,900          2,0%)         2,900
F-ro Maoag.geit                              -            7,000         7,0M0          7,000         7,000          7,0)0         7,00)         7),"00         0 000
R-ot                                         -25                           25             25            25             25            25                           7
la,bor                                                    3,000         5,200          4,6D0         5,700          6,000         6,000'         6.000fY0
Ve~terinary and Spraying                     -6C00                      1,00             900         1,100          1,200         t,20)          1,2-00 
P.rohased Peed                               -            6000          6,900          6,100         7,600          8,000         8,00M          8.00 I,00
Cropping and Pasture Peed                    -            8,000        13,800        12,200         15,100        16,000         16,007         16.00         100
Transpor~t                                   -            1,000         1,700          1,500         1,900          2, 000        2,000          2.7200
Maintenance     -              -             -              -             -           ~~~~~~        ~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6,800  6,Ro,)  6,60  6,000n
Artificial Insenination---                                                -                     -             -                   1,700          1.7"1)        1,700
Hetfer Rearing                               -            5,700         5,900          6,300         9,600         11tIrn        11,4071        11.607)       1110
Siter Rearing                                --                         8,300         11,600        13,200        16,600o        16,000         16.770        ISo"'
Subwtotl                                  -           32,225        52,725         55,125        63,925        75,925         06,020         91,07C        9L6725
Conti,igenciea (10%)                         -            3,200         5,300          5,000         6,600         7, 600         6,600         610 ,           ,10"'L
Total (minded)                            -           35,600        58,000        60,708         30,300        93,500         00,40)         02,1,hn0,0
Dairy Perot No. 2
Meadquamtera Cost                            -              -           2,900          2,900         2,900          2,900         2,900,         2,700o        2 ,700)
Pa- Mangenet                                 --                         7,000          7,000         7,000         7,020          7,000          7,0"')        7,00.0
Rent                                         --25                                         25            25             25            20             70            70
L.bor                                        --                         3,000          5,2n0         6,600          5,700         6,007          6,0)0          Oct
Vetwrinary and Spraying                      --600                                     1,000           900          1,100         1,207         1.0.)1,20
P-rhase d Peed                                                          4 ,000        6,900          6,100         7,600          8,001                        P 8,o)orno
Cropping and Paetere Ped                     --                         8,000         13,800        12,200        15,100         16,000         16,000        16,Yrn
transp,t                                      --                        1,000          1,700         1,500         1,900          2,001j       27.000          2,000I
Maintenance                                  -              -             -              -             -              -             -            6,6cco        6,300
Replacene.t Ca.st-------                                                                                                                         5,000o        5-000
Artificial lnseninetion                                     -             ------170                                                                             1,700
leifer Rearing                               -              -           5,700          5,900         8,300,         9,600o       1140o1,.0                     1,
Steer R.a-Ing                                -              -             -            8,300        i1,600        13,200         16,6o0        1,07           1,0
Subtotal                                  -              -          32,225         52,125        55,125        63,9125        78,928         61,020        0,0C25
C-oteige,oiss (10%)                          -              -           3,200          5,300         5,500         6,600          7.603         0.1000,
Tontal (r-,adei)                          -              -          35,600)        50,000        60,700         70,300        83,501         92,100        72,100,
P.r   ame No. 3
Headquarters Coat                             -             -           2,900          2,900         2,900          2,900         2. 900         2, 0)0        7,107
Par. Managenet                                -                         7,000          7,000         7,000          7,0OOC        7,000          7,070         7,00)O
Rent                                         --25                                         25            25             25            25             70            "
Lab or                                       --                         3,0O0          5,200         6,600         5,700          6,O00         0.010          0,0-I
Veterinary and Spraying                       --                          600          l,000           900          1,100         1,200          1,2')0        1, 200
Poochased Feed-                                             -           6,000         6,90 go        6,100         7,600          8,000          8,1000        8,ooŽ~
Cropping and Pasture Peed                    --                         8,000        13,800         12,200        15,100         16,Ooo         16,ono        16,000r
Traneport                                    --                         1,000          1,700         1,500         1,900          2,000          2,0           2,000
Artificial Insein.ntien---                                                       -              -             -                                  1, 7oo        1,70)
Heifar Rearing                               --                         5,700         5,900          8,300         9,600         11,600        11,600         11,1L""
Steer Rearing                                ---                                      8,300         fl,600        13,200         l6,60o        16,000o        16, "
Subtotal                                  -              -          32,225        52,725         55,125        63,925         75,925        96,020         86,120
lontingmoiee (10%)                           -              -           3,200         5,300          5,500         6,600          7,600         8,beo          8o,60
Total (rounded)                           -              -          35,600        58,000         60,700        70,300         83,500        92,1,00        72,110
Dairy Far Nio. 6
Headquarters Cost                            -              -             -2,900                     2,900         2,900          2,900         2 , -0         2, 900
Pare. Managent                               -              -                         7,000          7,0DO         7,000          7,0O0         7,7",          200
lent                                                       -                             25             25            25             25            20             25
Labor                                        ---                                      3,000          5,200         6,600          5,700         S co)n'
9eterlary anM Spraying                       ---600                                                  1,000           900          1,100         1,220          1,200
Purcha-ed Peed                               -4 ,000                                                 6,9o0         6,100          7,600         Sooc           8,0co
Croppin,g and Pasta,r  Peo,d                 -                                          ,000        13,800        02,200         15.300        16,oc,o        i6,cooo
Traspor t                                    ---                                      1,000          1,700         1,500          1,900         2,000          2 ,000
,AIntenanne                                  -              --                                         -0 
Nepiaceieot Costes                                                                                                                                             5,700
Artificial Iniialo----                                                                                 -              -             --1,700
Heifer Rearing                               -5 ,700                                                 5,900         8,300         52,~00        11,60)         11.400
Steer Rearing                                                     - -                                ,300         11,600        13.200        1lOO6         1iSs0c
Subtotal                                  ---                                     32,225         52,725        55,125         63,925        75,028         I, 81.25
Contingencl-e (108)                           -                                         ,200         5,300         5,500          6.600         7,6')0         9.100
Total  r,sooded)                          -                                        5,600         58,000        60,700         70,300        83,5SOo        q2,100






LIVESTOCK DEVEI,OPPEXT PR0JF(.T
PR-ojct I0r5,tAfnnts
(K)
Boul     Breading/    B-.d1,g/    Or-ott.      Daliry    Dairy     Dairy'     Dairy                            Por.ign    Total.
CATMIOR!                               3.4ota/                                                                    KttO.!      Brooding   bemning     Washing       Dairy      Fare       Fa-       F-r       F-r,                  us Dola'r axhshage    Freig,.
Chi ... a  WoIsrtou      lUnoahi   1010cc    titos     Sow-i      ml4cl    Chiahinga.   Chinjure     Ranch      Ranch        Reach       Fae          i        i          o          v        Total.      fa-lsa  t            az --
P.oi,,g                                   3,610        -         4,280    30,000     12,300    3900      10,90      36,500       17,700        -        13,000      13,000        500      11,100    11,100     11,100    11,100     228,220       315,310    80       252,210
tireb.oakz                                 610       3,t01         700     8,500      4.200     8,200     1, 700     6,200        1, 500                 3,100       3,100        1.00        -         -          -         -        43,940        61,520    6,0       36,910
Road,                                      250        330        2,020     8,600     2,100o    10, 70       200      6,5ou         600         -        7500         2, 500       -        13~-02     1,300     1,300      1, 300     Li.800o      58,520     70       L0, 60
Water                                   12,310       5,000      12,950    17,000     27,600    25,80I0   21,900      9, 700      16,100.    25,300     13,100       13,400       5,200     15,500    15,5010   15,500)    15,500)    257,660       360, 720   70       252,500
Buildings                                7,500         -         9,50D    17,900    19,600     39,200    16,800     28,200       13,100        -       13,100       13,100     14,500      53,100    53,400    53,100     53,100O    LOS, oo       568,540    50      201,270
Spra  R.a.e UAn  Handling Tard.          2,000         -         2,000    10,200      2,000     9,500     2,100D     8,10 LOD     L   )        -        3,100        3,100O       -           -         -          -         -        17,(000       65,800    5 o       32, ~00
rrnot.rm, maih.,achnery                  5,820      7,870        5,250    29,400     8,6o0     13,200    12,700      9,300      19,800o     32,100D    10,300       18,300      9,900     12,200     12,200    12.200    42,200      359,610      503,500    100      503,500
Offics ,OWIPeet                            -           -           -       1,1.0D     1,WO      1,500D      -        1,700        3,000      4,100      3,100        3,100        -         2,100     2,100     2,100      2,100      30,00        12,000     60       25,3013
-ocs  n  oqip-et                       210         600         -       2,800        600     1,0ODD    1,900      2,300        2,100        300      2,100        2,100        ---                              -         -        16,010        22,1L60   30         6,738
Radio *qipc0nt                           1,00          -         1,000     1,300        -       1,000     1,100      1.000        1,000        -        1,00         1,~ ODD- -                                                        9,1400       13,160   100        13,160
Land cl,o-ing-                                         -                    -                -          -                    -           -                       -              5,600         --                             -5,600                  7,840    90         7,056
silngs pit.                                                                                                                                                                     1, 900     3,600      3,600     3,600      3,600      16, 300      22,820     50o      11,L10
Blalry sOsoip,et                           -           -           -         -          -                   --                                 ----                                        17,900    17,900    17,900     17,900      fl,600       100,210    90        20,220
9iectricity i-otallatio                                            -         --                             --                                                                    -        2,00       2,000     8,000      2,000       8,000        11,200    L0        1,150
So.b-?oiuj                          33,100     1.6,8000    37,700    129,800    78,300   1.19,100   69,300     109,800      81,900     52,100      73,00       73, M       37,900    1.9,100   1319,100   149,100   119,100    1,538,300    2,153,630    -      1, 561, 5 ,,
Beef                                    33,600      2h,000      58,300   217,100    121,400   163,00    101,000     89,800      126,6o)     18,0)0    179,100      179,100        -                                I.             - 1,312,600    1,837,610    - 
Dairy                                         -         -          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9, W 31,0  17- 0  19-0  ?0-(  70,15,007,007,0                                                   7,0       7,0         313,000      160,200    70       33,0
total  67,000  10,800   96,000  317,800   199,700    312,100   171,100   199,600       200,500     70,100    252,100      252,100     88,300     222,2930002   222,2002.20 222,200  222,2000  3,191,000  1,171,170   -     1.8897661
contlngssoie.                          6,700      1,100        9,600    35, 000   20,000     31,200    17,100    20,0          21,         7,000     0,0           520        890        2,0        220      2,0         220       3000          1.,                  1,0
riot .)t.r                             73,0)"190              10,60      8220     219,700   313,300   188,100    219,600      229,500      73,100    277,60)     277,60)      97,200    21,100     241,100   211,100    211,10_   3,51140       199,3t       - o30o9
T1.gui-- a.n8 Cosuta...    ,h                                                                                                                                                                                                          87,600       122,6b0    60        70,0OM
Buhiadinat     aun                                                                                                                                                                                                                   81, 30       113,820   100      113,823
- ~~~~~~~~.t.al                                                                                                                                                          3,829,900    5,361,730     -          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~389,0  531,3 
300,oo       620,000                -
Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,129,900     5,780,730    13    2,h97,301
Oftit. -d Costs                           ~~~~~~~~~~Cnst/nu,it
a/  PRouical InneR.. Unit. .8 Costs  Dofta                   J~~~(K           N., of thoOt.                    b/ Technical _ersice    for TOOL G.0Ooraa Mmsagn,t pant (,tts,aialyq           li e   1..m      gtofivsok          praeo
916                            Y""~~-  o   yer  t Iccha 18,000 '- year hRich t.0l1dd,s salar, haousng, medical, end educational aJo     j...lav  n
r..cingV                           N~~~~~~                          ~     ~       ~~il.  216  91160                 Crtl,        sol'tant serUico  t- gaSsit ZCDL And Na-ti0nal Livestock,DelpetGopI             paigft.rnh.
20                 1,0                               aryf-         atincal liestock secor py-ag~ra-, tijtfijcial jo~ ineanatl,DMcrap.., lir-sot0k   atiring facilities an-d
Miles    200                  209                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Peator  i.ProsMent schome.  Thre  e.-er  ticlc   ot( n abc,.) o Kech  l9~   Planning  fto rmcnsohtact
BualMr  .-                                    Ranh Uni t.               15,157                   17                                                                                                 sa         f nat.ohl119qalifiepar yearr efpsotir  fields
Spray Raeas                                   Unihts   I                27,073                   15                             1t---t''l         -fd'         h~    --i        il.
STractorse.                   c,              UnIt,                      2,000                   26
rOctor,, Usicla.                              I-har52Rnh Unit,          21,155                    17
H.r as -I qoipt                               Rsnch Un,its               2,00r)                   12
HRadio S     qp ljt                           Head                         180                    89
Raio Clearing                                 Units                      1,000                    10
1,nd. Pitsar                                  A-re                          20                   200
UUT &Qipmmt.6/                    ~~Unit.                     1,800                    9
211.6tPicty     6                             DLIry Units               17,900                    1,
Ilactrlcity                       ~~~~~~~~~Dairy Uhits       2,000
l/I nCl.d.. artern.1 and internal f-ecing     2/  I-clodeS track,, grids, bridgee, et-c.
I-cI.des borehole., dens, ceir,, PiPIng, PnoPS, c1ndBills, troughs. etc.
Includes housing, offices and store,   2/   Include, tractor,, land coe,pl-ghl,
ag rioIttoa1 sq.ipsent, gradsr, tanker,, etc.
6/  Incud.hes ier  gbceco, separators    etc.






ZAMBIA
LIVESTOCK DEV0ELOP  RT D?OJECT
Artificial Innemination Proeram - Cost Estimates
(Ii)
Y e a r                                          Total
I t e m                            Quantity         K           US$           1            2            3                          5
Capital Items
Land Rover                                1        2,500       3,500        2,500           -_                                                2,500         3,500
Large Storage Canister                    3          500         700        1,000            -          500                                   1,500         2,100
Ranch Canisters                          17          160         202        3,060            -            -            _            _         3,o60        4,28
Microscopes                              11          100         140        1,100            -            -            -            -         1,100         1,540
A.I. & Veterinary Equipment               2        1,000       1,400        1,000            -            -        1,000            -         2,000         2,800
Electro Ejaculator                        1          L62         65j          6o2            -            -            -            -           462          660
Portable Generator                        1         2             80          200            -            -            -            -           200          280
Semen
Roran Charollaise Bralmuan ex
Kenya                                                                  (2,700 doses) (3,400 doses) (6,000 doses) (7,500 doses) (8,400 doses)
(Beef Ranches)1/                  2B,ooo            0.70         0.98     1,9O0        2,380        6,200        5,250        5,88o       19,600         27,660
Bull Equivalents                                                               65           85          150          182          210           692
Dairy Farms                                                                (300 doses) (900 doses) (1,500 doses) (2,100 doses) (2,400 doses)
Friesian Progeny Tested?!           7,200            3           4.20       900        2,700        6,500        6,300        7,200        21,600        30,240
Freight Costs
(Estimates only)                   35,200          60           84          180          258          450          576          668         2,112        2,956
Liquid Nitrogen3'                        7,850           0.t5         0.3r)      707          707          707          707          707         3,535         4,945
(Liters)             (per liter)
1570/annum)
Labor
Technicians4/                            10           1            1.40     2,830        2,830        2,830        2,830        2,830        14,150        19,810
Bonus/Cow Settledl                   10,501           0.20         0.28       199          307          625          538          631         2,100         2,961
(Cows settled)        (per cow settled)
Subtotal                                                                   16,029        9,182       13,612       17,201       17,896        73,919       103,696
Contingencies - about 10%                                                   1,672          918        1,388        1,699        1,706         7,381        10,604
Total                                                                      17,700       10,100       15,000       18,900       19,600        S1,300       113,900
1/ 20% of beef cow herd bred by A.I. allowing 2 amoules of frozen semen/cow
2/ 100% of dairy cow herd bred by A.T. allowing 1.5 amoules of frozen semen/cow
3/ Assessed on 110 liters/month required for canister for storage and transportation, i.e. for 19 canisters 1,570 liters ner annum s Y 0.L5/liter of liquid nitrogen
/ Allowance has been made for 35 ngwee (us$ 0.69)/per day over the normal daily rate for ranch labor of 65 ngwee (US1 0.91)/per day for a total daily wage of K 1
(US$ 1.40)/day, working 283 days per annum. Also includes total wage benefits
5/ A bonus incentive has been allowed of K 0.20    for every cow settled (not served) by A.I. This is shared by irisesinating technicians aid herdsmen resnronsible for
heat detection
6/ For Iroject years 6-20, sufficient bulls will be available from local sources and/or ranch bred for natural service.  ,ontinued A.l. costs for dairying are included
under dairying operating estimates
'A 0






ZAMBIA
LI'fESTfi-v  DF rj?H34B T "ROJECT
Pasture Development Proving Trials
Unit        lb/           Tear 1                   Year 2                     Year 3                Year b              T o t a 1
Inputs                                     Cost        Acre      Acre       Cost           Acre       Cost           Acre       Cost       Acre      Cost        Acre         Cost
Land Preparationl/(l,OOO acres)
Clearing and Windrowing                      17.50         -        550       9,625          350        6,125          100       1,750        _          __         1,0OO      17,500
Grubbing and Root Raking                     17.00         -        50          850           -           --            -           -         _           _            _          850
Seed Bed                                     18,00         -       550        9,900          350        6,300          100       1,800        _           _            _       18,000
Planting
Fertilizer Cost                              45/ton       300       550       3,712.50       350        2,362.50       100         675         _          _            _        6,750
Legume and Inoculant Sced Cogt2/              2/lb          8        50         800           -            -            -           -         -           -            -          800
Grass Seed Plus Legume./                       3/lb         3       500       L,500          350        3,150          100         900        -           -            _        8,550
Harvesting
Legume Seed                                   1/lb        100        -           -            50        5,000           50       5,000        50        5,000          -       15,000
Grass Seed                                      .20        30        -           -           100          600          100         600        100         600          -        1,800
Maintenance
Regrowth (mechanical)                         1/acre       -        -            -           550          550          350         550       100         100           -        1,200
Regrowth (chemical)                           1.50/acre    -        550         825          350          525          100         150        -            -           -        1,500
Fertilizer                                   15/ton      150        -            -           550        1,856.25       350       1,181       100         328           -        3,365
Reseeding                                    S50/acre       1        -           -           550          225          350         175       100           50          -          [50
Subtotal                                 -             -         -      30,213            -        26,691           -       12,781        -         6,078          -       75.766
Contingencies                                    5%           -         -        1,510           -         1,335           -          6s0         -          30u          -        3,789
Consultants                                  2,000/annum      -         -        2,000           -         2,000           -        2,000         -        2,000          -        8,000
Total                                    --            -        -       33,723            -        30,029           -       15,421        -         8,382       1,000      87,555
1/  Costs supplied by Ministry of Agriculture, Machinery Section, should not be usea as indicative of second stage large-scale oroject, as modern low cost land clearing
techniques unknown to Zambia at oresent would be used.
2/  Estimates based on Kenya Source cif costs
3   Estimates applicable to Australia plus freight to Zambia
93];
ID
v 'fi






ZA,Ve33A                                  AIMEX 7
LIVrSTOCK DEVtLOP?IENT P1OJEcr
R',asin sO Fro act Inct     Unl
T e a r s          '              2             3              L           ,          D7 2c
1.   B6SEMING/WNla1ING FiNCH0S
TF77T:._ Input,                               31.500            300           30D            700         -133         , ,00)
Livestock                                         _           5,hoo          o,LoO         8,6L9        8,L90        3 I61
ff.  aI  -upZts                               13,100            30c         2,200            300         630 0
Livestock                                         _             _            7,200         8,10          Lo,0 2. r. O
l. Ihushi
Ptsical Inputs                                 35,500           3c0            300           700          D0          - 'n
Live-to-k                                       1,800        26,500          9,600        10,200       10,203         .2,510
D. Kal o,o
Physical inputs                                80,200        35,200          9, 700        4,000          70        12- tn
Lreasto:k                                      70 ,500       3L,Soo          3,600        66,200       12,600       210,1.20
0, Iats.
pSystcao Iopcnpts                              LL 600       33L, 70            500           500        1,900        71i, '0
L!veotock                                       8, 300       2L,900         19, ,00       35,0oO       10,500       121, 10
P. Sol,qzl
PFlca31 inputs                                 52,a8o        10,3L70        U8,900        29,100        5,000       IL,. I 1
Livestock                                     40,200         36,5o0         39,300        29,L00       17,600       16   i
P4iysicai inputs                               32,900        35,300         9,300          3, 00       1,60'L        ol, 8
Livestock                                      35,Loo        33,800         29,200        20, 00       '600         ill, £03
TOTAL PFHYSiCAL IPsJTS                     287.600       116,60D        n 290          38,300       13,500       527010
1oTAL V152TOcK                           196,200       16L,600       1l66700        161,1L00      75,6o_       711, oO
Sub-Totaa                                 L83,500        281,000       217,900        199,700      85,900      1,271,300
:3. BR&8,fi0/FAt5EI1L0 RANCHLS
A. .(tbLa
vaical inputs                                 26,200         30,500         5,400          3,200       1,030        6o, no
Livestock                                      32,500        37,o00         S,400         12,000 C     1,.Oi        101,7(10
B. cOlaIhiga
a     i  Inputs                                53,400           400         20,400           800       3L, 8100        500
Lia'tock                                      25,300        36,500         13,200         7,800        6,200       86,303
TOTAL NYSICAL inPUrS                        79,600        30,900         28,500         6,00        35,500 S      73,10
TOTAL LIVE3TOCK                             58,300        7L,200        21,600         19,800      17,6on        191,gil
3ub-To-al                                  137,30D       105,loo         50,600        23,800       53.1,00      371,607
111. BULL, BRELDING RANCE
68,200            700           700           700        1,500         52,100
Livestock                                       3, 007        5,40o          3,603          2,100        3,600      1iS,n
3ul'--o->                                  51,203         6,lcO          ,300          ,1,00        1,103        30,1DC
rv. 2 kIREEDINGl/WANIO   RANiCHES
Physical iu,pT                                    -           60S0Do        36,000         30, OO      20 ,00        166, 30
Livestock                                                     4 60,100     115,500        120, 00       83,303       35S, 3gn
Sub-Total                                      -         100,100        151,503       150,000      103,30D       50oL, -0n1
V.   OPAVEOTS LAIRY PARK
1ysical Inputs                                27,900          7,200           700          1,700         L0C         37, ni
- vestock                                      15,100        16,000         13,900         0,200        2,L.0C 0          o
Sub-Total                                  43,000         23,200         14,600         L,900        2,800       58,SOO
VI. 11ODEL DAITR FAPJ5
.i  Fp.   S, 
P5s$icaYl T6.ps                             S2,200         52,200        13,30D          1,400          -         1S?, 00
Liveatock                                     50,a0x        22,300            -             _                       73, 00
Dai ~rs  a  No. .2
?Walccl 3Lputs                                             82,200        52,200         13,300       1,LDO        96I0,1 
Livestock                                       -           36,000        37,100            -           -           73,1CO
Dair Fanu No 3
Phyafc l Inpu:s                                -           82,200        52,200         13,300       1,400 413,100
Livestock                                       -           50,.00         22,300           -            -          73,100
Dalr7 Form lO. 4
IPhy:icrLnputs                         -              -          82,200         52,200      11,700        1L3,17
Livestock                                      -              _          5,800          22, 300        -           73,1DD
TOTAL PHYSICAL INPUTS                       82,200       216,600        199,90G        80,200       17,500       596,6o0
tOAL ]L'iSTOcX                              50,800       123,500         95 .90        22,300         -          292, .X
Oub-TatOaa                                 133,00M       3.0,500        295,390       102,5s0      17,530       558,830
TOTAL                                                068.900       856.oo         736.000       484,ooo      271.300     3,196, 200
coNrINa3Kc:Es                                         85,0o0         56,0ow        73,000        48,009       27,000       320,09o
PASTURE INPROVEMEST PROGRAM                              -          33,70c         30,000       15,500       5,OOO         S7,66'
ARTIFI51L L.:SEltNATION PROGRAM                       17,700        10,100         05,900        18,909       19,600        31,309
TECINIZAL SEEVIZES                                    63,000        36,0ow         36,o09        16,30o       16,300       167,003
WORKINO CAPITAL                                      200,tX3       100000            -             -            -          30000
G0AIID TOTAL                                       1.194,t00     1.121.800        885,ooo       582    ,1 312.300        4.130.100
-ot;s .V not rdd d-c *. rru.dc n






ANNEX 10
ZAMBIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Corporate Organization of the Agric!ltural Development
Corporation and its Subsiiiiary, the
Zambia Cattle Developm'ont Ltd.
Agricultural Development Corporation
1.        The Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) was formed on
Mar,2h 28, 1968, as a company of limited liability under the Companies
Ordinance (Chapter 216 of the Laws of Zambia). The principal function of
ADC is to develop and manage, on a strictly commercial basis, soundly con-
ceived agricultural end agro-industrial enterprises which would contribute
to the development of the agricultural sector. The Company's Memorandum
and Articles of' Association give it broad powers to achieve this objective
by conducting business either alone or in association with any other person
or body.
2.        As provided for in the Articles of Association, ADC's Board of
Directors, appointed by Government, presently consists of 10 members: 6
private farmers and 4 representatives of Government (the Permanent Secretaries
of the Ministries of Commerce, Rural Development, Natural Resources and the
Director of Agriculture of the Ministry of Rural Development). The Chairman
is elected by vote of the Board. A director may hold office until he resigns
or is removed.
3.        Business operations are being conducted by a staff of six:  a
general manager, an agricultural development adviser, a director of admin-
istration, a financial adviser and two accountants. The General Manager
is a former Agricultural Officer of the Ministry of Rural Development.
4.        On present activity, this staff is sufficient, as some of the
companies which ADC was supposed to have started in 1968 have not yet been
organized. Staff for future executive positions will be recruited as neces-
sary both from Zambia and abroad. As yet there is no provision for the post
of Deputy General Manager, who would play a major role in financial matters
of DOC.
5.        Until ADC can become a self-financing corporation, it will need to
rely heavily on Government funds to finance the development of its projects
and to cover any operating deficits of ADC and its subsidiary companies.
ADC has been pstablished with an authorized share capital of K 14 million
(US$19.6 million) and Government transfers of existing assets to ADC is
tak:Lng the form of equity.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Zambia Cattle Development Ltd.
7.        In July 1968, ADC established its first subsidiary, the Zambia
Cattle Development Ltd. (ZCDL) as a livestock company limited by shares under
the Companies Ordinance of Zambia. See Chart I for details of ZCDL's organi-
zational aspects. Currently all its shares are owned by ADC. Under the
Memorandum and Articles of Association of ZCDL, the number of members of the
company cannot exceed 50. The Company by ordinary resolution can issue
regular shares and shares with special rights to private investors. Thus,
ZCDL could issue preferred shares to qualified investors if ZCDL's Board
approves the terms of such additional equity investment.
Financial Operations
8.        ZCDL has not been operative long enough to issue any trading
accounts. Estimates of ZCDL's opening and projected balance sheets are given
in Annex 11 Table 2.  ZCDL's estimated cash flow for the life of the Proj:ct
are included in Annex 11 Table 1 for Project activities. With the 1968 price
increase for beef and under proper management, the return on ADC's equity
capital should vary annually between 11 and 14%.
9.        As the accounts of most of the beef ranches and Gravetts dairy farm
were part of the Ministry of Rural Development's recurrent expenditure and
capital accounts and the Ministry of Finance's General Revenue accounts, an
accurate assessment of the operating costs and revenues prior to their trans-
fer to ZCDL has been difficult to ascertain for each ranch. On the basis of
the data on cattle inventories, capital costs, as well as trading and profit
and loss accounts provided by the Ministry of Rural Development's accountant
for six of the project ranches plus Gravetts dairy farm for 1967 and 1968, it
has been possible to make an estimate for the ranches and dairy farm as a
group.
10.       As a group, the seven ranch *nd dairy operations had an estimated
gross trading profit of about US$126,000 for 1968, due mainly to the 38%
price increase for slaughter stock in effect from January 1968. If compa-
rable standard valuations to 1967 are used, the ranching and dairy operations
would have incurred a trading loss of about US$196,000 for 1968. For 1967,
the ranches and dairy showed a trading loss of about US$177,800 when live-
stock was valued ~t the same standard values at the beginning and at the end
of the year. Annex 11 Table 1 gives the projected improvements in Project
financial operations of the ranches and dairy farms with the Project now
under tae control of ZCDL's mIanagement.
Capital Structure
11.       ADC had previously established ZCDL with a nominal share capital of
US$11,200 equivalent with the remainder cf its required capital to be in the
form of loans from ADC. Such a capital struci;ure had a number of disadvan-
tages.  If the loan from ADC were to cover thp existing assets and new develop.
ment capital and were to bear interest, a heavy burden would have been placed
on the company in its early years. Also, the new company would not have a



ANNEX 10
Page 3
capital structure on which a realistic return on capital could be measured.
And, finally, ZCDL would find it difficult to, enter into partnership 4dth
other interests, local and foreign, for the promotidn ot joint ventur,ls.
Accordingly, Government and ADC have agreed to re-capitalize ZCDL in order
to reflect the value of its existing assets, counterpart equity contributions
to possible external loan finance and a portion of its permanent working
capital requirements. ZCDL's authorized share capital now stands at US$5.6
million, which is adequate. While this required a registration fee of approx-
imately US$7,000, the benefits of a properly capitalized ZCDL should be
considerable.
12.       ADC had originally set up the Board of ZCDL, appointed by the
Minister of Rural Development in consultation with ADC, as a purely nominal
board. However, in view of the likely size of ZCDL's operations and the im-
portance of ZCDL's production contribution to future development of the live-
stock industry, agreement was reached with the ADC and the Permanent Secretary
of the Ministry of Rural Development that ZCDL's Board has been reconstituted
and strenghtened to include two representatives of the Zambia cattle industry,
one representative of the financial community, one represertative of the Min-
istry of Rural Development and one representative of ADC (Chairman).
13.       In May of 1968, ADC requested PMEA to second an ADS staff member
to fill the position of General Manager of its proposed livestock subsidiary
company. He reported to ADC in July 1968 and is at present assisted at
headLquarters by an accountant, a secretary and by an administrative assistant.
The General Manager would be directly responsible for implementing the finan-
cia]., marketing, livestock and development policy for the beef ranches and
dairy farms.
14.       The General Manager of Zambia Cattle Development Ltd. who would
be directly responsible to the Board of Zambia Cattle Development Ltd., would
have the responsibility for implementing and executing the livestock develop-
ment; project.
I.   The General Manager will have the tolloving specific duties and
powers:
(a)  to propose policy and other matters, as necessary,
to the Board;
(b)  to execute the Project in accordance.with the poli-
cies and procedures set forth in the loan documents;
(c)  to hire, subject to such conditions as the Board may
impose, the staff including accountant staff consid-
ered necessary to carry out the Project;
(d)  to establish the duties and responsibilities of each
ranch and dairy farm manager, and of each assistant
manager and of the staff;



ANNEX 10
Page 4
(e)  to train ranch and dairy farm managers and assistant
managers in the practical aspects of livestock devel-
opment and management;
(r) to review development plans and to suggest to the
Board such modifications as are necessary to the exist-
ing ranches and dairy farms and to prepare development
plans for the additional ranches and farms included in
the Project;
(g) to insure the successful completion of each development
plan in accordance with the terms of the loan documents;
(h) to establish and maintain records for the Project ranches
and farms, as needed for project evaluation;
(i) to propose policy, for consideration of the Board, with
respect to:
(i) the selection, promotion, demotion, location,
suspension, or removal of project staff; and
(ii) the preparation of annual budgets and five-year
budgets for the needs of the Project ranches and
dairy farms.
(j) to prepare quarterly and annual progress reports for
transmission to the Bank after approval by the Board; and
(k) to establish the terms of reference for the consultants
with the apprqval by the Board and (i) to organize the
implementation of their studies for the efficient dev-
elopment of pasture improvement programs (including land
clearance and bush control measures) and for the preparation
of the development plans for future ranches and dairy farms,
and (ii) to evaluate the effectveness of livestock watering
facilities for the Project ranctles and dairy farms, as well
as the problems involved in instituting an artificial in-
semination program for the Project ranches.
2.   The General Manager will have the following qualifications:
(a) a good training in agriculture or allied science such as
animal husbandry;
(b) broad experience in pasture and livestock development,
including several years' experience in pertinent fields
such as land development, soil Cultivation, pasture



ANNEX 10
Page 5
maintenance and use, as vell as in the more practical and
economic aspects of livestock production, preferably ob-
tained in regions of the world ecologically similar to the
Project area"; and
(c) successful experience in the management of large-scale
livestock development projects.






ZAMBIA: LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (ADC) AND ZAMBIA CATTLE DEVELOPMENT LTD. (ZCDL)
ORGANIZATION CHART
s                       | bl~~~~~INISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT|
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
NATIONAL LIVESTOCK                                      CORPORATION
DEVELOPMENT GROUP
BOARD-IO MEMBERS
GENERAL MANAGER
AND STAFF
ZAMBIA CATTLE
I          ~~~DEVELOPMENT LTD.                                        FUTURE SUBOSIDUR
BOARD-6 MEMBERS
-L      … ----   GENERAL MANAGER
ACCOUNTANT  INISTRATI E ~   ~     ~     BEEIN/WANNG     MUOT/WLVRTI
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L                                             :ASISAT                SEColRE ITARY 
SENIOR DAIRY                                                                          SENIOR RANCH
MANAGER                                                                               MANAGER
GRAVETT'S DAIRY FARM                                                                    BULL STU D RANCH
DAIRY FARM o I   DAIRY FARM No 2                 MBALA RANCH     CHISHANGA RANCH    MKUSHI RANCH    CHtSAMBA RANCH   BREEDNG/WEANING  MUGTO/WOLVRTO
3REFD~NGWEAN,NG KATETE/CHINJARA
| DAIRY FARM No 5  |DAIRY FARM No 4 |OLWEZI RANCH                                  KALOMO RANCH      PITWE  N         RANC       |    RANCH COMPLEX
IR)I I RR D-4 2N6 5 _AC






"NE1 11
ZAMBIA                                                                   Table 1
LnV .TOCK DEVBOPKNT PP)JECT
Cash Flow Projectimn for Zanbia Cattle De.lopau.t Limited
(K' 000)
B.fwre     - - - - - - - - - - -e                                                            c t      T e a r - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
De-elopnt     1        2       3        4    _  5       6         7        8         9       10        11       12        13       14        15       16        17       18        19       20
Cash Tnflow
Beef Re.-ene.                          161.6   171.6    381.7   475.5    581.7   733.5   1294.0   1b.17.0a  1500.9    1515.0   1521.9    1521.9   1521.9    1521.9   1521.9    1521.9   1521.9   1521.9    1521.9   1521.9    1521.9
Dairy Remrmes                           19.1    82.0    247.8   429.4    548.2   620.9    681.8     712.8    722.7     725.6    725.6     725.6    725.6     725.6    725.6     725.6    725.6    725.6     725.6    725.6     725.6
IERD Loan                               -      462.0    466.0  41..o     270.0   167.0     -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -
Barclays Bank DO Loan                   -      1Sl.0    146.0   125.0     82.0    46.o     -         -        -
Covernnert (wdimry & pafwrm     *w") r  ,.             510.0    400.0   200.0    -
Barclays Bank CO     i Working Capital  -      200.0    100.0     -       -       -
Total                            180.2   1511.6  181.5    Mo180,9  i681.9  1567.4   1975.8   2129.8    2223.6   2240.6    2247.5   2247.5    2247.5   22b7.5    2247.5   2247.5   2217.5    2217.5    2247.5   22bL7.5  22b7.5
C.ah Outflow
Beef Operating Costa                   258.0   417.8    5       603.4    684.b   7.8.1    911.0     893.6    893.6     893.6    893.6     893.6    893.6     893.6    893.6     893.6    893.6     893.6    893.6    893.6     893.6
Dairy Operating Costa                   20.0    65.1     W      271.2    310.1   345.5    397.2     128.7    137.6     137.6    137.6     137.6    437.6     137.6    437.6 b37.6 437.6 b37.6               137.6     437.6 b37.6
Ranch nd Dairy De,elop.; t              -       952.0   985.0    851.0   565.0   326.0      -        -         -        -        -         -        -         _        _         -        _         -        -         _        _
Tech.ical Sericeos                      -       43.0     37.0    37.0     17.0    16.0
Subtotal                         278.0   1178.2  178.7   1762.6  1576.8  1135.6    1308.2   1332.3    1331.2   1331.2    1331.2   1331.2    1331.2   1331.2    1331.2   1331.2    1331.2   1331.2    1331.2   1331.2    1331.2
Surpluw (Deficit)                 97.8     o0.4   111.8    78.3    105.1   11.8      667.6    797.5     892.4    909.4     916.3    916.3    916.3     916.3    916.3     916.3    916.3     916.3    916.3     716.3     916. 3
Total                            180.2  1518.6   1851.5  1840.9   1681.9  1567.4    1975.8   2129.8    2223.6   2240.6    2247.5   2247.5    22b7.5   22.7.5   2247.5    2247.5   2247.5    2217.5   2247.5    2247,5   22b7.5
Interest a.d A.ortisation
IRRD
Comitrwnt F? e (O.75%)                  -       10.0      6.0     3.0      1.0                  -             -         -        -              -        -        -         -        -         -             -
Intereet (6.5%) and aortiatioo          -       -        30.0    60.0     87.0   104.0    241.0     244.0    244.o     244.0    244.0     244.0    244.0    244.0     244.0    244.0      -         -        _        _         _
P    rcla Bank (Loan)
coi2tznt l. (0.5)                      -        2.0      1.0     1.0      -       -        -        _         _        _
Intermst(7.25%) aDd A-tiatito           -       -        10.0    21.0     31.0    37.0     76.o      76.o     76.0      76.0     76.0      76.0     76.0      76.0     76.0      76.o     _                  _
Barclays Bank (Workig Capital)
Interest (6.5%)                         -       -        13.0    19.0     19.0    19.0     15.0      10.0      6.0      -        -         -        -         -
Reductimn of Wo.rkng Capital Loan D             -        -       -        -       -        100.0    10o.0     100.0     -         -        -         -        _
Total Interest amd Amortization   _       12.0     60.0   1014.0o   38.0   160.0     435.0    430.0     426.0    320.0     320.0    320.0     320.0    320.0     320.0    320.0
Prooioion forr eserves-"                                        -       -                      -
Provinim for Permaent Working Capital      -       -        -       -        -       -       100.0     100.0    100.0      -        -         -        _         _        _         _        _                  _         _         _
Corporate Tanes                            _-                                                           -        150.0    250.0     250.0    250.n 250.0 250.0            252.0    250.0    1.70.S    !10..     hOO.^    boo.0      OO.O
Surplus (Deficit)                 -       28.4     52.8    (25.7)  (32.9)   (28.2)   132.6    267.5     216.4    339.1     316.3    346.3     316.3    316.3     346.3    346.3     516.3    516.3     516.3    516.3     516.3
r-ulotive Cash Balance                     -       28.4    81.2     55.5     22.6    (5.6)   127.0     394.5    610.9     950.3   1296.6    1642.9    1989.2   2355.5   2681.8    3028.1   3544.4    4060.7   4577.0    5093.3    5609.6






ZAMBIA
LIV.ESID CC DEVELOPMENT PROJBCT
ZCDL - Actual Balance Sheet January 1969 and
Pro Forma Estimates December 31, 1969-December 31, 1975
(K '000)
January 22,        - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - December 31, - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - …  -
ASSETS                                                  1969          1969           1970           1971           1972           1973           1974           1975
Fixed (Less Depreciation)
Buildings and Capital Works                        300            1460           510            680            690            660            680            690
Machinery, Equipmsent and Vehicles                 328            480            600            680            665            603            680            665
Livestock
Beef Cattle                                       1,280          2,035         3,017          3,484          3,906          4,210          4,082          4,190
Dairy Stock                                          25           124            248            496            620            620            620            620
Sheep, Pigs and Horses                              20             21             22             23             24             25             26             27
Other Current Assets
Permanent Working Capital                           -             -              -              -              -              -              100            200
Cash and Bank Balances                               30            45             50             50             50             50             50             50
Stocks aid Stores                                    50            60             70             70             80             80             80             80
Total                                    2,033          3,225          4,547          5,483         6,035          6,248          6,318          6,522
LIABILITIES
Long Term Loans
IBRD                                                -              462            928         1,339          1,609          1,776          1,676          1,576
Barclays Bank DCO                                  -              140             286           411            493            539           1469            400
Current
Overdraft and Short Term Loans                      -              200            300            300           300            300             200           100
Creditors and Accrued Charges                       100            100           100            100            100            100            100            100
Provision for Taxes                                 -              -             -              -              -              -              -              400
Capital
Ordinary Shares                                   1,933          2,323          2,833          3,233         3,433          3,433          3,433          3,433
Reserves                                            -              -             100            100            100            100            100            100
Profit (Loss)                                       -              -             -              -              -              -              340             413
Total                                    2,033          3,225          IJ,547         5,483          6,035          6,248          6,318         6,522
Return on Ordinary Shares                                -              -             -              -              -              -               10%I,%
Debt: Fquity Ratio (%)                                   -            26:74          35:65          40:60         41:59          43:57          41:59          38:62






ZAMBIA
LIJVBI CK DEVLM?tM1WT PMIJERT
Scociouic and Financial Rates of Return
(K '000)
P r o j ect         Y e a r s
1  2       3        4.       5        6       7        8        9       10       11       tO       13       11.      15       16       17       13       19         20
Incremental Net Operating Tnc.-e
after Taxes                                      (250)      (115)        27      157      354      778    '907      712      695      716      708      708      708      708      708      560      560      560      560      560
Total Lovaataent                                    (848)      (910)    (1,139)    (696)    (359)     -       -        -        _        _
Working Capital                                     (100)      (125)      ( 60)     -        -        -       -        -        -        _        -        _        _        -        _        _        _        -
Increase in Herd Value                               -          -          -        _        -        -       -        -                                                                                                         4 _  _  -  -  -  _  -  _  -  _  4,500
Physical Input 3Slege VinIs                          -          -          -        -        -        -       -        -        _        _        -        _        -        -        _        _        _        _        _        200
Net Csh FloW                                   (1,198)    (1,150)    (1,172)   (539)    ( 5)      7?8     907      712      695      716      708      708      708      708      708      560      560      56o      560     5,260
Financial Rate of RBtorn 12%
Incraentai Net Operating Inc.eV/                    (230)      (100)        28      185      390      S20     960    1,058    1,077    1,103    1,103    1,103    1.103    1,103    1,103    1,103    1,103    1,103    1,103    1,103
Ranch insstawit                                     (818)      (910)    (1,139)    (696)    (359)             -        -            -         -        -       -         -            -        -        -        -        -
Working Capital                                      (100)     (125)      ( 60)     -        -        -       -        -        _        _        _        _        _        _        _        -        _        _
Less Deeeioapent SubsidyV                           ( 61)      ( 19)       l 18)   ( 10)    C 9)
I.crease in Herd Value                               -          _          _        _        _        _       _        _        _                 - _               - _      _        _                 - _      _        _       ,500
Physical Input Salvage Value                               -          -         -       -        -        -       -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -            20O
Lees REtra Cost of Government Servioesal            ( 15)      ( 15)      ( 15)    C 20)    C 25)    ( 25)   l 30)    l 30)    ( 30)    l 30)    ( 30)    ( 30)    ( 30)    (-30)    ( 30)    ( 30)    ( 30)      30)     C So)    (3D)
Net Cach flo                                   C1,227)   (1,169)     ,T,20I)J  (5I1)    l 3)      795     930    1,028    1,017    1,073    1,073    1,073    1.073    1,073    1,073    1,073    1,073    1,073    1,073     5,802
Esnon-ic Rati of Return 16%
11  The value of the extra beef produaed as e result of the Project -as adjusted -ooords by 14% to reflect the equivalent value of the landed coot of the inoortod b,o   It could rcplace
2/ The itoPt subsIdies paid by Gosernont to Z0DL deoloping its rancoes and dairy fats. has been deducted ao ao internal transfor
3/ An estimate oas made of the extra costs of flosenoment services required (such as ceteritrry 00s01) 0s 0 result of msvoteect io the ProJect






ZAMB IA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMN'r PROJECr
Project Production Senefits At Maturity
I                      BEEF RANCHES                     I   DAIRY FARMS        I               I
I                      I               !
I   I   I         I          I           I     rotal     I Produc tion  I    Increased    I     Total
PRODLETION CLASSIFICATION         I Breeding/Weaner I Breeding/Fattening I Bull Breeding  !          I h Dairy   I Production    I   before     I Production due I    Slaughter
Ranches            Ranches           Ranches      j Gravetts  I Farms       at Maturity     Development  !   to Project   I   Production
............................................................. (He d)..............................................................  (Mead Itric   rons)
A. LIVFSTOCK PROLUCrION (Nos)
1. Slaughter Stock
cul Buls-                              111                36                11              -           -             158            35                123            h6
Cull Cows (beef and dairy)           2,029               726                125              78        h558          3,h06          536              2,870            72h
Fat Steers (beef herds)                -               1,597                -               -           -            1,597          644                953            395
Fat Steers (dairy calves)              -                 -                  -               155         888          1,053            28             1,015             h 7
Total                            2,15O             2,359                136             233       1,336          6,20h         1,243             h,961          1,512
2. Breeding and Fattenirg Stock
Weaner Steers                        8,585               -                  -               -           -            8,585          286              8,298
Weaner Heifers (beef)                3,767               659                363             -           -            h,77)           -               5,779
Surplus Heifers (dairy)                -                 -                  -                 53        308            360                             361            -
Herd Bulls (upgraded)                  -                 -                  531             -           -              531          -                  531
Cull Bull Calves                                         -                   27             -           -               27            5                 22            -
Cull Heifers                           h9h               170                 27             -           -              691          135                557            -
Total                           12,855               819                9.B               53        308         15,973          h25             11,548
rOTAL LIVESTOCK TURNOFF                        15,985              3,178             1,085              286       1,645        21,177         1,668             19,509           _
B. mI13 PRODLCTION (Gals)                                            -                 -            196,000   1,120,000      1,316,000       35,000          1,281,000






I  Z A M 5 1 A                                        -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S\  CS4L F~~~~~~~~~.A  A.VCANYIJtA
ZAMBIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                 iT A N Z A                         N  Z   A
PROJECT RANCHES AND DAIRY FARM                         / !                   MBAL 
Proj cc  raoc he, and dairy farm              £                   |A C |               ;
Areas frersahici  c;arie fnoerit, \
arc restricted by ectcrroary rep-                                                     aN\,Z IHS4i  'va(!
ulato                                                    CHIHIGA
Main roads                                    )    KAWAMSWA  RANCH  I1.--
…---- Secondary roads
da i eapa                                                 LUIN _AAM         0cY  --A  ISKA 
DEMOCRATIC REPUaL
IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'
WINILUNGA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~HIJR
A NC G    L A    |                 09                              , 
iRAI NDDLARANCH                                    CPOPjIO
I           '    MANKOYA - ~     IR _ TTSLU4 S YA                                        J A
>                                         _  t C H S~~~~~~O  A  M B  IO   |E<,_..\
I  -    WA                                                       ______________\ 1}\\&
, Tf 9K~OTSWA|BL BeDNA     \.,C 
dasada, l9a9                                                                                            I OCC-- 6N
BALOVALE          KN/</ ASEP; ............. AAS-,1
_- -P e A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UH
_~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _  _ t /t_ _.
JAr.uAr ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ IMNKY 196                                                                   I^CH ISA  Fa






