Document of
The World Bank                        I14I 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3347-LSO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
April 22, 1981
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1          =     Maloti (M) 0.7747
Ml            =     US$1.2908
Ml            =     RSA Rand (R) 1
US$1          =     SDR 0.813986 (March 31, 1981)
MEASUREES
1 meter (m)                       =      3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)                      10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                  =      0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)          =      0.3861 square mile
I hectare (ha)                    =      2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                   =      2.2046 pounds
1 metric ton                      =      2,205 pounds
KINGDOM OF LESOTIIO
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 through March 31
The Country               Lesotho
The People               Mosotho (singular)
Basotho (plural)
The Language              Sesotho



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
I.       ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES    ..............                1
Geographic and Socio-Economic Situation ........ ..1..... 
Development Trends  ..................................                    2
Manpower Requirements .....................                               3
II.      THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND ISSUES IN EDUCATION
DEVELOPMENT .........        ..................................            7
Overview ............       ..................................             7
Structure and Administration of the Education System ..                    7
Education Policy, Strategy, and Plans ....           .............        13
Education Finance .......        ..............................           15
Maintenance of Facilities .............................                   17
Role of the Bank Group in Education in Lesotho    ........                17
Lending Strategy  .....................................                   18
III.    THE PROJECT ..........         .................................           19
Objectives  .........        ..................................           19
Project Components ....................................                   20
Primary School Classroom Facilities ....          ............        20
Textbooks ..............................                              21
Thaba Tseka Vocational Training Center           .............        23
Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization Center .....                  24
Evaluation and Pre-investment Studies ...............                 26
Technical Assistance ...............................                  26
Female Participation in the Education System           ..........        27
This report is based on the findings of a mission in September/October
1980 to Lesotho composed of Messrs. D. Klaus (mission leader/economist),
M. Giuseppi (architect), A. Aime (educator/planner), L. Swahn (technical
educator), and M. Carroll (textbook specialist/consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN .....   ..................      28
Project Cost .............                  .       .          28
Financ:ial Plan .30
V.     IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS AND
AUDITING ............   ..................................     31
Implementation ........    ................................    31
Procurement ..........    .................................    33
Disbursements  .........................................       34
Auditing ...........   ...................................     35
VI.    BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................         35
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............. ..        36
ANNEX 1 - TABLES AND CHARTS
Table  1  Comparative Education Indicators
2  GNP, Government Recurrent Expenditures, and Recurrent Expenditures
on Education, 1969/70-1979/80, and Projections to 1985/86
3  Units and Costs of the Textbook Component
4  Estimated Project Cost by Category
5  Summary of Enrollment and Estimated Project Costs
6  Implementation Schedule
7  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHART  I  Ministry of Education, Sports, and Culture
Organization Chart, 1980
2  Educational Pyramid, 1979
3  Edtucation System, 1980
ANNEX 2   Sample Design of Primary-School Classroom
ANNEX 3   Un:it Area and Unit Cost Comparison of Vocational Schools
ANNEX 4   Kev Indicators for Project Implementation
ANNEX 5   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP       IBRD NO. 15421-R



KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
BASIC DATA - 1979
Population                                                     1,300,000
(includes an estimated 165,000 presently
working in the Republic of South Africa)
Population growth rate                                         2.3% p.a.
Modern-sector wage employment within Lesotho (1980)            36,750
GDP per capita                                                 US$200 equivalent
GNP per capita                                                 US$340 equivalent
Education
Primary education (grades 1-7)
- enrollments                                             235,600
- ratio of enrolled to theoretical
age group (6-12)                                        101.4%
Junior-secondary education 1/
(grades 8-10):
- enrollments                                              18,200
- ratio of enrolled to theoretical
age group (13-15)                                        21.0%
Senior-secondary education 1/
(grades 11-12):
- enrollments                                               3,200
- ratio of enrolled to theoretical
age group (16-17)                                         6.0%
Higher education (National University of
Lesotho):
- enrollments                                               1,048
- ratio of enrolled to theoretical
age group (18-22)                                         0.9%
Literacy Rate                                               52%
1/ Includes general-secondary education, teacher training, and
vocational and technical education.



Education Expenditures
Recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of
Education, Sports, and Culture as
a percentage of total Government recurrent
expendit:ures (1979/80)                                  18.5%
Recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of
Education, Sports, and Culture as a
percentage of GDP (1978/79)                               4.3%
(1979/80) (estimate)                   4.2%
Recurrent expenditures of the Ministry of
Education, Sports, and Culture as a
percentage of GNP (1978/79)                               2.7%
(1979/80) (estimate)                   2.8%



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
APTC            Advanced Primary Teacher Certificate
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
COSC            Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
CTI             Commercial Training Institute
DANIDA          Danish International Development Agency
EEC             European Economic Community
FTC             Farmer Training Center
IEMS            Institute of Extra-Mural Studies
IMRC            Instructional Materials Resource Center
JC              Junior Certificate
LAC             Lesotho Agricultural College
LDTC            Lesotho Distance Teaching Center
LEC             Lesotho Evangelical Church
LIPA            Lesotho Institute of Public Administration
LOIC            Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization Center
LTI             Lerotholi Technical Institute
LYS             Lesotho Youth Service
MOA             Ministry of Agriculture
MOE             Ministry of Education, Sports, and Culture
MOH             Ministry of Health
MOW             Ministry of Works
NCDC            National Curriculum Development Center
NDP             National Development Plan
NMDS            National Manpower Development Secretariat
NTTC            National Teacher Training College
NUL             National University of Lesotho
ODA             Overseas Development Agency (United Kingdom)
OICI            Opportunity Industrialization Center International
PTC             Primary Teacher Certificate
RSA             Republic of South Africa
STC             (Junior) Secondary Teacher Certificate
TRDP            Thaba Tseka Regional Development Program
TSL             Technical School in Leribe
TSRP            Training for Self Reliance Project (Project Implementation Unit)
TSU             Teacher Service Unit
TVTC            Thaba Tseka Vocational Training Center
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
USAID           United States Agency for International Development



KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
I.  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Geographic and Socio-Economic Situation
1.01    Slightly smaller than Belgium, Lesotho is a landlocked country sur-
rounded by the Republic of South Africa (RSA). Over two thirds of the country
is mountainous, with peaks rising to 11,000 feet. A narrow crescent of land in
the north, west, and south, ranging in altitude from 5,000 to 6,000 feet, con-
tains most of the 1.3 million population. Soil erosion is extensive, and less
than 15% of the land area, located mainly in the lowlands, the foothills, and
the Orange River Valley, is currently considered suitable for crop production.
Apart from scattered valleys of limited size, the mountain area is suitable only
for grazing. Few roads lead into the mountains, and most of the people of the
mountain regions are effectively isolated physically from the rest of the coun-
try. The mountain areas have also been neglected in terms of schools and other
social infrastructure.
1.02    Lesotho has few natural resources other than hydroelectric potential,
beautiful scenery, and some small diamond deposits. The country is overwhelm-
ingly rural and agricultural: about 90% of the population live in rural areas,
and subsistence agriculture (including animal husbandry) is the main activity of
85% of the resident population. In spite of the comparatively high literacy
rate (estimated at over 50% of the adult population), due to the long history of
missionary activity in the field of basic education, the country's ability to
raise this percentage is hampered by the generally deplorable state of basic
education facilities and the lack of funds and capacity to expand the system.
1.03    Economically, Lesotho is one of the contries designated by the United
Nations as "least developed." GDP per capita in 1979 is estimated to have been
about US$200 equivalent, although GNP per capita in the same year is estimated
to have been about US$340 equivalent, the difference being made up mainly by
migrant workers' remittances.
1.04    Lesotho is highly dependent on the RSA.  About 90% of the country's mer-
chandise imports and tourist traffic come from the RSA, about one half of its
male labor force and almost a third of the total labor force are employed in the
RSA, and migrant labor remittances have on average been equal to about 40% of
GNP over the past six years. In addition, receipts from the Southern Africa
Customs Union, of which the RSA is the dominant member, have accounted for about
70% of total Government revenues in recent years. Rapidly rising receipts from
the Customs Union, external grants, and remittances in the past allowed for a
continuous expansion of development programs, offset growing trade deficits, and
considerably mitigated the effects of rural poverty, allowing rural families to
buy food and other basic consumer goods.



-2-
Development Trends
1.05    The Government is in the final stages of preparing a Third Five-Year
National Development Plan (NDP), to cover the period from 1980/81 through
1984/85. The Third NDP assumes that over the next five years, migrant employ-
ment will not increase, that revenues from the Customs Union will decline in
real terms, that domestic revenues will show little growth in real terms, and
that there will be no significant decrease in the population growth rate.
Within the context of limited resources and general uncertainty about future
economic and political developments in Southern Africa, the Third NDP reiterates
several long-term socioeconomic goals of the two earlier NDPs, including those
of increasing agricultural output and productivity and of expanding domestic
employment, but places these goals in a general context of reducing the
country's economic vulnerability. Thus, the local production of food grains
will be emphasized, as will soil conservation and afforestation programs. In
industry, new emphasis will be placed on technologies appropriate to a labor-
surplus economy. The continued development of domestic services will also be
encouraged. Attempts will be made to decentralize development to the village
level, to the extent possible, in order to make maximum use of local resources.
The well-being of the rural population is to be enhanced through increased pro-
vision of primary health care, water supplies, sanitation, and food aid.
Finally, the development of education will emphasize basic education, geared to
the country's needs, for both children and adults, as well as health education,
training for families living in rural areas, training in farming practices, and
vocational and technical education.
1.06    Over the last six years, real GDP is estimated to have grown at an aver-
age annual rate of about 7%. This favorable performance was due largely to a
significant increase in Government activity and in the construction, mining, and
tourism sectors. Due to large increases in the earnings of migrant workers, GNP
grew much faster than GDP, at an estimated 10% p.a. in real terms.
1.07    Given its dependence on the RSA and on the international community, and
with its shortage of resources, Lesotho's economic prospects are not encourag-
ing, and many of its problems appear intractable. Nevertheless, there are
several areas in which determined action may be expected to bring about pro-
gress. Integrated rural development projects have shown that a concerted effort
to combat soil erosion, combined with a package of inputs, can increase rural
productivity and create new jobs, and the country must continue its efforts to
intensify agricultural production, as employment opportunities in the RSA stag-
nate. Efforts to establish new small industries and handicrafts ventures will
help, although the prospects for new employment in these areas are extremely
limited, and Lesotho cannot expect to compete on a large scale with industry in
the RSA. The diamond mine which began production in 1977 will provide some
revenues and employment but is unlikely to continue producing beyond 1985.
Tourism will continue to provide revenues and employment, but Lesotho's hotels
and casinos can expect to encounter increased competition from similar



- 3 -
facilities being established in the South African homelands. Probably the only
long-term hope for decreasing Lesotho's economic dependence is the development
of its hydroelectric potential. The country's education system will bear a con-
siderable part of the responsibility for producing, on the one hand, a literate
and enlightened citizenry, and on the other, the technically skilled people to
bring all these efforts to fruition.
1.08    Until 1974, capital investments in all sectors were fully financed
either from abroad or by private sources (including, in the case of education,
investments by the churches). Following a revision of the Customs Union Agree-
ment in Lesotho's favor, the Government was increasingly able to participate in
the financing of development projects. The outlook for the future, however,
does not appear as promising as it did five years ago. In the first place,
Lesotho's GDP is likely to grow much more slowly in the next few years than it
did in the 1970s. In the second place, receipts from the Customs Union are
likely to decline in real terms (para. 1.05), due on the one hand, to new fiscal
measures in the RSA and, on the other, to a slowing in the rate of growth of
Lesotho's imports. In the third place, a decline in the numbers of Basotho
finding employment in the RSA will mean a decline in workers' remittances, such
that GNP as well as GDP will grow more slowly than in the past. Finally, con-
cessional aid from external donors is likely to decline, or at least to stag-
nate, in real terms, given the current general lack of support for aid in a
number of donor countries.
Manpower Requirements
1.09    In 1980, Lesotho's National Manpower Development Secretariat (NMDS) car-
ried out, with the help of an expatriate manpower economist, a National Manpower
Survey, the provisional results of which were becoming available at the time of
appraisal. The NMDS estimated that only 36,750 people (6% of the labor force)
were employed in the modern sector in Lesotho in 1980; about 26,000 people (4%
of the labor force) were employed in Lesotho in informal activities including
handicrafts. The rest of the labor force working within the country was employed
in traditional agriculture. The most striking feature of Lesotho's employment
situation has been mentioned (para.1.04): the fact that almost one third of the
labor force (an estimated 165,000 people in 1980, according to the NMDS) were
employed in the RSA. According to the organizations which hire Basotho for the
gold, platinum, and coal mines in the RSA, an estimated 114,000 of the 165,000
were men employed in the mines. Another 43,000 were men in other employment
(farms, commerce, industry, South African Railways), and 8,000 were women (most
of them domestics). With so many men absent from Lesotho at any one time, women
play a significant role in the economic (farming, marketing, industry, and ser-
vices) as well as political affairs of the nation.
1.10    The existence until recently of a virtually inexhaustible demand for
Basotho labor, both unskilled and skilled, in the RSA was useful to Lesotho
insofar as it absorbed many thousands of unskilled workers who would not have
been employed in Lesotho except at very low marginal return (most of them in



subsistence agriculture); on the other hand, the demand for skilled workers in
the RSA, at wages much higher than those which employers in Lesotho could
afford, caused shortages within Lesotho in several sectors which were critical
for domestic development.(l) An estimated 95% of the unskilled laborers
presently in the RSA have worked in the RSA at least once before in their lives.
Most Basotho prefer to work in Lesotho, but in the past, very few could find
employment which was as remunerative as that to be found in the RSA. Now, how-
ever, pressures for increased employment of South African blacks have caused the
South African Chamber of Mines to consider giving preferential treatment to
South African blacks when hiring, and, in addition, several of the mines (par-
ticularly the coal mines) are becoming increasingly mechanized. An increasing
number of unskilled workers will therefore have to be absorbed in Lesotho, most
of them in subsistence agriculture.  Lesotho should therefore continue to expand
and improve its basic-education system, since literacy enhances productivity in
subsistence agriculture as well as the ability to adapt and innovate. The
changes in the RSA's employment market may also affect its demand for skilled
labor. As long as a demand for migrant skilled labor exists in the RSA, how-
ever, Lesotho cannot stop the migration of skilled people, nor can it offer the
majority of such people incentives sufficient to keep them in the country.
1.11    The labor force is expected to increase by some 65,000 people over the
present (Third) NDP period, but new jobs in the modern sector will account for
less than a quarter of that number, even under the most optimistic assumptions.
The NMDS forecasts that modern-sector employment will grow by about 7.5% (about
16,000 new jobs) over the period 1980-1985. Over seven-eighths of the increase
is expected to be absorbed in four sectors: manufacturing; construction; com-
merce and tourism; and Government (including education). The projections indi-
cate a growth of 15% p.a. in manufacturing over the period 1980-1985. Employ-
ment in manufacturing was projected by Bank staff in 1979 to grow by at least
15% p.a. over the period 1980-1985. Given the present rather somber outlook for
economic growth in the next few years, however this forecast was probably overly
optimistic. The NMDS projections indicate a growth of 12% p.a. in employment in
the construction sector over the period 1980-1985; employment in that sector
grew at about 17% p.a. over the period 1975-1979, SO the projected rate of
growth may be on the conservative side in spite of the lower overall expecta-
tions for the economy. Employment in commerce and tourism is projected to grow
at about 6% p.a., and that in Government at about 5% p.a. Many of the new
employees in the Government sector will be teachers. Globally, the projected
increase of 16,000 jobs in the modern sector appears very high when compared to
the actual number of modern-sector jobs created during the period 1975-1980
(variously estimated between 3,500 and 9,250).(2) Attrition on the existing
(1) Substantial increases in public-sector salaries in recent years must
be seen as justified in so far as they were necessary to keep qualified
people in Lesotho.
(2) The higher figure is that of the National Manpower Development Secretariat.



- 5 -
stock of workers in 1980, over the five-year period 1980-1985, has been pro-
jected at about 8,500. Adding this figure to the projected figure of 16,000 new
jobs to be created, a total of 24,500 openings which may become available in the
modern-sector during the period, is obtained (this is probably an overly
optimistic projection).
1.12    The NMDS projects that about 5,000 new jobs will be created in handi-
crafts and other informal activities in Lesotho over the period 1980-1985, which
implies an annual growth rate of 3-4% p.a. Attrition on the stock existing in
1980 has been estimated at about 3,700, giving a total of 8,700 new openings
which may become available in this category during the period in question. The
NMDS projects no increase in the level of migrant employment over the period
1980-1985.  Employment in the residual category, subsistence agriculture, would
have to increase by about 2.3% p.a., or about as fast as the rate of population
growth, to absorb the rest of the increase in the labor force. Subsistence
agriculture is treated as the residual category because it is assumed that the
typical new entrant to the labor force will first seek employment in one of the
other three categories (modern sector in Lesotho; handicrafts and other informal
activities in Lesotho; migrant employment) and will only engage in subsistence
farming if he/she is unsuccessful elsewhere.
1.13    More information on existing and desired education profiles for these
various job categories will become available when the results of the National
Manpower Survey (para. 1.09) are fully known. For the time being, however,
estimates have been made of the minimum educational level needed (primary,
junior secondary, senior secondary, and higher), by category, and the speciali-
zation desired (general, commercial, or vocational/technical).
1.14    At the primary level, current projections indicate that about 95,000
will graduate over the period 1980-1985. Of these, some 43,000 will continue on
to junior-secondary school and the remaining 52,000 will enter the labor force.
Of the 52,000, the modern sector in Lesotho will require an estimated 12,000 and
the handicrafts/informal-activities sector will require an estimated 7,000. It
would therefore appear that the present output of the primary-school system is
more than adequate to meet the needs of these two sectors. Assuming, however,
that a primary-level education is required for the entire labor force, including
unskilled workers and those whose main occupation is subsistence agriculture, in
terms of maximizing productivity, then the conclusion is that Lesotho must con-
tinue to strive to extend its primary-education system to the entire age group,
as well as improving the quality and efficiency of the system.
1.15    At the junior-secondary level, current projections indicate that about
24,800 will graduate over the period 1980-1985. Of these, some 9,200 will



- 6 -
continue on to senior-secondary school (virtually all of them from the junior-
secondary general stream) and the remaining 15,600 will enter the labor force.
Of these 15,600, the modern sector in Lesotho will require an estimated 8,600
and the handicafts/informal-activities sector will require about 900. It would
appear that in aggregate terms, the supply of junior-secondary-school graduates
will substantially surpass the demand for them, but in fact this surplus is only
for graduates of the general stream. The supply of junior-secondary-school gra-
duates of the commercial stream is projected at 300; the domestic demand, at
1,700. Similarly, the supply of junior-secondary-school graduates of the voca-
tional stream is projected at 1,900; the domestic demand, at 5,300. It should
be emphasized that these estimates of demand are of domestic demand only
(excluding migrant labor). Even though the projections of demand are probably
too high (para. 1.11), the fact that some of the commercial or vocational gradu-
ates will probably find employment in the RSA, means that a large gap within
Lesotho will undoubtedly exist.
1.16    At the senior-secondary level, current projections indicate that about
7,800 will graduate over the period 1980-1985. Of these, some 1,100 (virtually
all of them from the senior-secondary general stream) will continue on to higher
education and the remaining 6,700 will enter the labor force. Of the latter,
the modern sector in Lesotho will require about 3,400 and the
handicrafts/informal-activities sector will require about 400. As in the case
of junior-secondary education, it would appear that in aggregate terms, the sup-
ply of senior-secondary-school graduates will substantially surpass the demand
for them, yet there will be shortages of graduates with commercial and technical
backgrounds. The supply of senior-secondary-school graduates of the commercial
stream is projected at 500; the domestic demand, at 900. The supply of senior-
secondary-school graduates of the technical stream is projected at 150; the
domestic demand, at 2,400. Even though the projections of demand are probably
too high, the fact that some of these commercial and technical graduates will
probably find employment in the RSA means that a large gap is likely to exist:
jobs will have to be filled by people with less than the requisite skills.
1.17    At the level of higher education, current projections indicate that
about 400 science-degree students and about 1,300 non-science-students will gra-
duate over the period 1980-1985. Of the total projected output of 1,700 gradu-
ates, about 250 will continue on to post-graduate studies abroad, and the
remaining 1,450 will enter the labor force. It is estimated that the demand for
university graduates in Lesotho will be only about 1,100 but that 750 of these
should be science-degree candidates and only 350 should be non-science-degree
candidates. Thus, a shortage of science-degree graduates will occur, while a
surplus of non-science graduates can be foreseen. The Government should act to
correct this structural imbalance as soon as possible through entry quotas,
scholarship policies, and the continued upgrading of science programs in secon-
dary schools.



-7-
1.18    In summary, the greatest areas of need are in primary education, and in
commercial and vocational/technical training. The two earlier IDA-assisted edu-
cation projects in Lesotho addressed the needs of commercial and technical edu-
cation. The proposed project would focus on primary-level education, on which
the success of all levels ultimately depends and on vocational training for
school leavers and adults.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND ISSUES IN EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
Overview
2.01    At Independence in 1966, Lesotho found itself with a large formal educa-
tion network, provided by various mission societies, the administration of which
was largely in the hands of the churches. At that time, few Basotho had
obtained education beyond the junior-secondary-level or had benefitted from
skill training. The country had until then relied heavily on expatriate exper-
tise for the preparation and implementation of development programs.
2.02    Following Independence, the new Government identified education as a
priority and made serious efforts to increase its administrative control over
the system. Still, Lesotho's education system is mainly in the hands of three
major church denominations. At present, the churches operate all but 18 of the
country's 1,080 primary schools and 83 of the 96 secondary schools. Increas-
ingly, however, through the Ministry of Education, Sports, and Culture (MOE)
(Annex 1, C-i), the Government has been able to exert its control over the sys-
tem. Annex 1, T-1, provides comparative education indicators and Annex 1, C-2,
indicates enrollments in the formal education system in 1979.
Structure and Administration of the Education System
2.03    Formal education in Lesotho (Annex 1, C-3) consists of seven years of
primary education, five years of secondary education (three years of junior
secondary and two years of senior secondary) and four to six years of higher
education. The administrative, financial, and academic control of the formal
education system is vested in the MOE. The MOE trains and appoints teachers,
administers examinations, reviews and authorizes curricula, opens and closes
schools, inspects the operation of all schools, pays teachers' salaries, and
although the National University of Lesotho (NUL) is administered by an indepen-
dent board, the MOE provides the bulk of its recurrent budget. In addition to
general education, the MOE administers the educational programs of vocational
schools (junior-secondary-level), two technical schools (senior-secondary-
level), the National Teacher Training College (NTTC) and the Lesotho Distance
Teaching Center (LDTC). Additional special training programs are operated by
other Ministries (paras. 2.24-2.29).



- 8 -
2.04    Although most of the schools in Lesotho are still owned and administered
by church groups in conjunction with the local communities, the MOE has made
subtantial progress in expanding its control of the school system. This has
been basically accomplished by increasing the number of school inspectors under
the Inspectorate Division from 9 in 1977 to 62 in 1980. These inspectors are
responsible for the monitoring of all aspects of the school system to ensure
appropriate standards are maintained. In contrast, the Planning Division is
critically understaffed, operating with only one national and three expatriate
professionals. With regard to the National Curriculum Development Division
(NCDC), created in 1975, its achievements have been up to now limited to the
establishment of subject panels and the initiation of syllabi reviews.  This has
prompted the MOE to review the division's original objective, realizing that the
development of national textbooks will be retarded (para. 3.10).
2.05    Primary Education (grades 1-7) is conducted in Sesotho (the national
language) for the :Eirst four years and mainly in English in grades 5 through 7.
In 1979, total enrollments were about 235,600, equivalent to 122% of the female
population and 82% of the male population aged 6 to 12. About 34% of t:he
enrollments were overaged students and a limited number of pupils of Basotho
ethnicity whose families are living in the RSA come to study in Lesotho to take
advantage of the free primary education established in 1974. The employment of
boys in herding livestock accounts for the lower male enrollment. However, the
present situation represents a substantial improvement from the past; the age of
entry is dropping rapidly and more males are attending school, e.g. in 1975
females outnumbered males by almost 50%, while in 1979, they outnumbered them by
only 34%.
2.06    All primary schools are subsidized by the Government through the payment
of teachers' salaries. The policy of automatic promotion, adopted in 1974, has
encountered strong resistance from both teachers and parents and has not worked
well. In 1979, almost 20% of the primary pupils were repeaters, about 17% of
those enrolled dropped out during that year, and only about 32% of the pupils
who had started the first grade completed the seventh grade and sat for the
final national examination. Only about 65% passed the examination, with about
65% of these entering junior-secondary schools and about 6% entering vocational
schools and farmer training centers (in 1980). The automatic promotion policy
has now been replaced by a continuous assessment system which ties pupils' pro-
motion to the acqu:isition of specific skills. It is still too early to predict
the results of this new policy.
2.07    The primary-school teaching force of 4,782 in 1979, all Basotho, gave a
teacher-pupil ratio of 1:49. About 35% (1,675) of the teachers were regarded as
unqualified by Government standards. To assist in the improvement of the qual-
ity of the teaching staff; an upgrading program is operated jointly by the NTTC
and the LDTC. Presently about 360 of these unqualified teachers are enrolled in
the in-service upgrading programs.



- 9 -
2.08    Lesotho is already providing virtually universal access to primary
edtucation and further increases in the enrollment ratio will, however, be diffi-
cult and costly because of the topography of Lesotho, especially in the eastern
half of the country which is mountainous, with a sparse population.
2.09    In September 1980, the Planning Division and the Statistics Unit of the
MOE completed one of the most comprehensive school-mapping exercises undertaken
in the Region. The purposes of the mapping exercise were (a) to provide the MOE
with the information and guidelines needed to make decisions on how to allocate
resources among the country's ten Districts and among schools; and (b) to assist
the MOE in planning tmprovements of the quality and equity of primary education.
In addition to the demographic information, the exercise confirmed the critical
shortage of classrooms and furniture as well as the poor conditions of some of
the schools now in operation (para. 3.02).
2.10    A curriculum-development policy was finalized in January 1980, and a
complete review of all primary syllabi is in its final stages. The primary-
school curriculum includes Sesotho, English, mathematics, social studies,
health/science, and agriculture. The MOE plans to supply standardized textbooks
in the three core subjects (English, Sesotho, and mathematics) to all primary-
school pupils (at present only about 30% of the students have books), in
exchange for a nominal book-usage fee (para. 3.06).
2.11    General-secondary education (grades 8-12) had a total enrollment of
about 21,400 in 1979, the equivalent of about 15% of the male population and
about 19% of the female population aged 13-17.(3) Of all general-secondary
enrollments, 86% were in junior-secondary courses and 14% in senior-secondary
courses. Boys accounted for 40% of those enrolled, with girls outnumbering boys
in every grade.
2.12    The language of instruction throughout the general-secondary cycle is
English. In 1979, of the 940 secondary-school teachers (giving a student-
teacher ratio of 23:1), 265 were expatriates. Of the 675 national teachers, 372
were qualified to teach at the secondary level, 157 were underqualified (quali-
fied to teach only at the primary level), and 146 were totally unqualified. As
in primary education, an in-service program is underway to improve teacher qual-
ifications and skills. In 1979, there were 96 general-secondary schools with a
total of 597 classrooms, 104 science laboratories, and 50 workshops. The
schools were widely dispersed and boarders account for about 27% of the total
enrollment.
2.13    Largely due to the lack of a well-formulated expansion policy, the
number of general-secondary schools has increased rapidly, from 60 schools in
1975 to 96 in 1979 (para. 2.36). It is expected that this uncontrolled expan-
sion may further lower the results of the general-secondary Junior Certificate
(3) About 38% of the boys and 53% of the girls of the age group 13-17
were enrolled in primary schools.



- 10 -
(JC) and Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (COSC) examinations. (4) Sixteen
of the 96 schools offer pre-vocational subjects in woodwork, metalwork, draft-
ing, and home economics. Twenty-seven schools include bookkeeping and commerce
in their curricula, and about 50 teach courses in agriculture. Nevertheless,
the curriculum is still overly literary. Practical facilities in fourteen of
the schools were or are in the process of being expanded and improved with Bank
Group assistance (paras. 2.46 and 2.47). A further expansion of the practical
facilities to secondary schools is being held in abeyance until the new curricu--
lum is more fully evaluated.
2.14    Vocational training in industrial arts and home economics is offered in
eleven junior-secondary-level schools. Technical education is offered in five
senior-secondary-level schools; the Lerotholi Technical Institute (LTI), the
Commercial Training Institute (CTI), the Lesotho Institute of Public Administra-
tion (LIPA) in Maseru, the Technical School of Leribe (TSL) in the north of the
country, and the Leloaleng Trades School in the south. The LTI and the CTI
operate directly under the Permanent Secretary of the MOE. The LIPA operates
under the Prime Minister's Office. Leribe and Leloaleng are mission operated
schools, but the salaries of their teachers are paid by the MOE.
2.15    In March 1978, the Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization Center (LOIC)
was established in Maseru. The center provides vocational and technical train-
ing for primary- and secondary-school dropouts and unskilled adults. The LOIC
trains the unskilled and unemployed or upgrades the underemployed. Part of the
LOIC's training scheme is to provide on-the-job training experience, work coun-
selling, and placement assistance to all its trainees.
2.16    In 1979, total enrollments in vocational and technical courses were
about 1,650, of which over one third were in home economics, about one fourth in
construction trades, and smaller numbers in motor mechanics, engineering, secre-
tarial and administrative skills, etc. (Re. para. 1.18 for a summary of manpower
needs).
2.17    Agricultural education is offered at the post-primary level at six
Farmer Training Centers (180 students in total) and, at the certificate and
diploma levels, at the Lesotho Agricultural College (LAC). In 1979, the LAC
offered a course in. rural domestic economy (42 women), a certificate-level
course in agriculture specializing in extension work (39 men and 13 women) and a
diploma-level course in general agriculture and agricultural engineering (37 men
and 22 women). The: diploma-level courses are taught under the dual sponsorship
of the NUL and the LAC. These courses are the first step of a Government stra-
tegy to establish an agricultural faculty at the NUL.
(4) The JC examinat:ion is given at the end of the junior-secondary cycle;
the COSC, at the end of the senior-secondary cycle. Results on both ex-
aminations have been declining steadily in recent years as the system has
rapidly expanded.



- 11 -
2.18    Agricultural training for out-of-school youth and adults is given at the
Lesotho Youth Centers (para. 2.28) and at the Farmer Training Centers (para.
2.26), where young farmers and school dropouts are taught basic agricultural
techniques.
2.19    Since 1975, one of the most successful agricultural training programs in
Lesotho has been the ecumenical Agricultural Training School at Thaba Kupa.
This school teaches the basics of commercial agriculture to about 70 young peo-
ple, one third of them girls. The students are also taught basic business con-
cepts which they may apply to their commercial endeavors. Emphasis is placed on
the production of vegetables, poultry, fruits, and fish for sale at a profit.
The school program enables the students to earn enough money during the three
years of training to begin their own commercial ventures. In addition, the
first year after graduation, the schools' outreach program provides assistance
to the students to properly organize their own commercial agricultural programs.
2.20    The Lesotho Distance Teaching Center (LDTC) was established with techni-
cal assistance from the British Extension College. The equipment, offices, pro-
duction center, and radio studio were funded by the First IDA Education Project.
The aims of the LDTC are (a) to provide correspondence courses at the JC and
COSC levels; (b) to sponsor formal and non-formal educational radio programs;
(c) to assume responsibility for the MOE's adult non-formal education programs;
(d) to produce Government radio programs; and (e) to provide support to mass
media in Lesotho. The LDTC has undertaken surveys in radio use, newspaper dis-
tribution, literacy levels, and effective demand for basic knowledge and
literacy-numeracy courses. It has started a literacy-numeracy program for out-
of-school youth, particularly the herd boys, and administers correspondence
courses for JC and COSC students. In 1979, 486 JC and 122 COSC candidates sat
for their respective final examinations, with about 70% passing. The LDTC has
also provided the support services and the educational materials for the in-
service training of unqualified teachers at the NTTC.
2.21    Primary and junior-secondary teacher education is provided by the NTTC.
Opened in 1975, the centrally located college offers three courses leading
respectively to the Primary Teacher Certificate (PTC), the Advanced Primary
Teacher Certificate (APTC) (a special administrative course which upgrades qual-
ified primary teachers to become principals), and the Junior Secondary Teacher
Certificate (STC). Entrance requirements are a JC for the PTC and APTC courses
and a COSC for the STC course. The NTTC's students spend their second year of
training teaching in an internship program. This program had 30 field staff and
244 students working in the country's schools in 1979. In the same year, the
NTTC graduated 181 PTC-holders, 37 APTC-holders, and 42 STC-holders from its
pre-service courses (a total of 260) and 100 from its in-service program.
2.22    The MOE has prepared a report with projections of teacher needs to the
year 2000, which includes a discussion of training policies and the estimated
training costs. Based on a yearly increase of about 2.5% in the number of
teachers, the Government hopes to reach, by the year 2000, a totally qualified



- 12 -
Basotho teaching force at the primary and secondary levels. Based on these
assumptions, in the year 2000, the pupil-teacher ratios would be about 40:1 at
the primary level and 22:1 at the secondary level.
2.23    Senior-secondary teacher education is the responsibility of the Faculty
of Education at the IqUL. The University offers a special education degree con-
sisting of two general undergraduate years followed by two years in education.
It also offers two postgraduate degrees, the Bachelor of Education and the Mas-
ter of Education. In 1977/78, the NUL began two special programs, the first to
train more mathematics and science teachers, and the second to train teacher
trainers for the NTTC and for the Inspectorate.
2.24    Non-formal education courses are provided by the MOE through the LDTC
(para. 2.20) and by f-our other Ministries (Agriculture, Health, Interior and
Rural Development). In addition, courses are provided by the Prime Minister's
Office, five non-stat:utory agencies, the NUL, and by many church and voluntary
organizations but wilh little cooperation among the agencies. Because of the
proliferation of agencies (over 30), in 1978, the Government established an
interministerial coordinating body for adult non-formal education which is now
trying to reduce dupLication and improve interministerial and interagency coor-
dination.
2.25    Business and management certificate and short term courses in bookkeep-
ing and the management of cooperatives, are provided by the NUL's Institute of
Extra-Mural Studies (IEMS). The Community Outreach Program initiated under the
First IDA Education Project teaches basic skills to adults and out-of-school
youth at six secondary schools.
2.26    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) sponsors four types of training: (a)
formal courses at the LAC and Farmer Training Centers; (b) in-service training
for its own staff; (c) day or weekend training meetings for farmers, women's
organizations, and young farmers; and (d) cooperative training. The Department
of Cooperatives, a branch of the MOA, sponsors training courses in leadership
and management and administration. The Ministry of Rural Development sponsors
courses in leadership, land conservation, water supplies, food aid and nutri-
tion, communications, and literacy.
2.27    The Ministry of Health has a Health Education Unit responsible for
health education. Besides training its paramedical personnel, it sponsors
courses in health, nutrition for mothers and pre-school children, sanitation,
and family spacing and is also responsible for a school innoculation program.
2.28    The Lesotho Youth Service (LYS) is a training agency administered by the
Prime Minister's Office. The LYS trains about 225 school dropouts or grade-
seven leavers in courses such as agriculture, masonry, carpentry, weaving, and
sewing, and also upgrades their literacy and numeracy skills.



- 13 -
2.29    The training provided by non-statutory organizations is very important.
Training is done by the Catholic Relief Service, Sodepax (which sponsors the
Thaba Kupa Agricultural Training School), the Lesotho National Council of Women,
Care (which is concerned with tie mohair cottage industry), and many handicraft
associations.
2.30    The National University of Lesotho (NUL) was established in 1975 when it
separated from the tripartite University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland and
offers courses in education, humanities, natural sciences, social sciences,
agriculture, theology, and law. In 1979, it enrolled 560 men and 488 women and
had a teaching staff of 115 (69 Basotho and 46 expatriates). Starting this same
year, all students qualifying for university study received a loan from the
Government which replaced the free fellowship program which had existed in the
past.
2.31    In 1976, the NUL drew up an ambitious plan of expansion of its facili-
ties. The plan, which attracted external donors' assistance, is expected to be
completed by 1982. Also the IEMS (para. 2.25) is building, with USAID assis-
tance, a campus in Maseru to cater to the part-time students enrolled in the
leadership, cooperative, business, and management training courses.
Education Policy, Strategy, and Plans
2.32    In 1978, the Government undertook a thorough "grass roots" evaluation of
its education system. A large number of public meetings at the village level,
referred to as the "National Dialogue," were organized throughout the country
and were followed by a four-day national seminar in Maseru in May 1978. The
main recommendations of the Dialogue, which became part of the draft Third NDP
are (a) to improve the quality and efficiency of primary education; (b) to give
increased emphasis to mathematics and science and to the expansion of practical
studies in general-secondary education; (c) to develop vocational, technical,
and higher education with a view to meeting national manpower needs in both the
modern and the rural sectors; (d) to extend and coordinate non-formal education
programs; and (e) to strengthen Government control over, and supervision of,
education activities.
2.33    The Government hopes eventually to achieve the following objectives: (a)
the attainment of universal primary education; (b) an improvement in the teach-
ing of Sesotho; (c) the development of a curriculum relevant to Lesotho's reali-
ties and needs, and the provision of instructional materials to all children at
the primary level; (d) an expansion of practical subjects at the secondary
level; (e) the addition of training facilities for rural out-of-school youth and
adults at technical schools and at diversified secondary schools; (f) an expan-
sion of the pre-service and in-service teacher-training programs, in order to
have an all-Basotho qualified teaching force at the secondary level by the year
2000 (para. 2.22); (g) an expansion of non-formal training activities in agri-
culture; and (h) the improvement and expansion of health and literacy programs.
The Third NDP calls for both quantitative and qualitative changes. The quanti-
tative changes are mainly in response to the Government's desire to distribute



- 14 -
educational opportunities more equitably throughout the country by providing
adequate facilities and textbooks in the hitherto more disadvantaged areas. The
qualitative changes include the improvement of the quality of teachers, the
development and adaptation of curricula, the provision of textbooks, and the
development of a more diversified and relevant education. These objectives are
appropriate, but are feasible only if Lesotho continues to benefit from substan-
tial financial and technical assistance from external donors for the development
of the sector.
2.34    While the Government intends to continue to increase its influence and
control over the school system, there is as yet no plan to acquire direct owner-
ship of schools. The MOE follows a policy of involving the school owners,
boards, and staff in educational development efforts. Until 1980, teachers were
employed by the schcool boards and paid by the Government (except for expatriates
who were paid by donor agencies) through the Teacher Service Unit (TSU). How-
ever, in 1980, the TSU assumed the administration of all teachers' contracts.
The Government had previously assumed responsibility for quality control,
including prescribing the content of syllabi and examinations, and now plans to
increase that influence by prescribing textbooks. In addition, it is assuming
the responsibility for paying the salaries of all school managers, thus further
increasing its control.
2.35    Although primary-level enrollments rose at an average annual rate of 5%
in the seventies, during the latter half of that decade, the increase averaged
only about 2% p.a. With the declining numbers of overaged students it is
expected that primary enrollments will grow slowly for the next four to five
years. This situation will give Lesotho the rare opportunity to improve the
quality of primary education by emphasizing internal efficiency, external pro-
ductivity, and equit:y of services.
2.36    During the last five years (1975-80), general-secondary enrollments
increased at an average rate of 4.4% p.a. In 1979, however, they experienced a
surge of over 20%, when 35 new secondary schools were created. This uncon-
trolled expansion (para. 2.13) may have serious negative effects on the already
declining quality of secondary-level education.(5) The MOE is now making efforts
to resist the pressures for expansion and plans to formulate a policy for the
(5) The percentage of passes on the COSC examination declined from 61% in
1970 to 27% in 1979, and the percentage of passes on the JC examination
declined from 70% in 1974 to 55% in 1978. If the trend persists, the
number of COSC graduates, especially those with Grade 1 and Grade 2 cer-
tificates, will not be sufficient to meet the demand for qualified candi-
dates to train at the NTTC, the NUL, and tertiary institutions overseas,
in order to meet projected manpower requirements. As a remedial measure,
courses have been introduced at the Maths/Science Center to upgrade stu-
dents with weak COSC' passes.



- 15 -
control of the growth of general secondary education facilities. In the Third
NDP, the Government states that it plans to limit the growth of secondary-level
enrollments to less than 5% p.a. during the next five years.
2.37    The most dramatic increase in enrollments has occurred in vocational and
technical education. Such enrollments increased from 550 in 1975 to 1,650 in
1980. The numbers are still insufficient to meet projected manpower demand
(paras. 1.15 and 1.16). The Government intends to expand this type of education
in the skills and in regions where it is most needed. Finally, university
enrollments more than doubled during the last five years of the seventies,
increasing from 502 to 1,048. With the completion of its 1976 expansion pro-
gram, the NUL now expects to slow its growth to about 4% p.a. for the next few
years.
Education Finance
2.38    Education and training activities in Lesotho are financed by the Govern-
ment, by substantial foreign assistance, and by private sources (primarily the
churches and the parents). In Lesotho's FY 1979/80, recurrent expenditures
administered by the MOE accounted for 44% of total estimated expenditures
(recurrent and capital) on education and training, and recurrent expenditures
administered by other Ministries accounted for another 5%. Capital expenditures
administered by the MOE accounted for 13% of the total, and capital expenditures
administered by other Ministries, an additional 2%. Fees collected and retained
by the schools (or the University) without going through the central budget are
estimated to have financed about 11% of the total. Other private expenditures
on education are estimated to have accounted for as much as 25% of the total
(these private expenditures include both recurrent and capital expenditures).
2.39    Considering only the recurrent expenditures of the MOE, in 1979/80,
primary-level education accounted for about 41% of the total, secondary-level
education for about 29%, higher-level education for about 20%, non-formal educa-
tion for about 3%, and administration for about 7%. Most non-formal education
programs are not presently the responsibility of the MOE, which explains the
small figure for this category. These percentages appear to remain remarkably
constant through the years, although secondary-level and higher-level education
have increased their shares marginally at the expense of primary-level education
over the past decade.
2.40    Excluding school fees and contributions from the churches, most of which
are spent for maintenance, equipment, and other operating costs, a breakdown of
recurrent expenditures on education by type for 1979/80 reveals that about 74%
of the total went for salaries, about 14% for maintenance, equipment, and other
operating costs, and about 8% for bursaries.
2.41    In 1979/80, MOE recurrent expenditures per student were about US$28
equivalent at the primary level, US$195 equivalent at the secondary level, and
US$3,340 equivalent at the higher level. At the primary level, contributions by



- 16 -
parents and the churches to maintenance expenditures would bring the cost closer
to US$30-32 equivalent per student. At the secondary level, school fees which
remain at the school and other private contributions for maintenance and operat-
ing costs would bring the unit cost closer to US$350 equivalent, or almost dou-
ble the amount paid by the MOE. For university education student's fees and
other revenues bring the estimated cost per student to about US$3,860
equivalent.
2.42    Over the period 1969/70-1979/80 (Annex 1, T-2), the recurrent expendi-
tures of the MOE grew in real terms at an average rate of 9% p.a.  They remained
at about 2-3% of GNP during the period and varied from 17% to 26% of the Central
Government's total recurrent expenditures. Capital expenditures of the MOE grew
more slowly, at about 3% p.a. in real terms, in the last five years.  Lesotho's
economic future for the next few years is not promising; GNP is expected to grow
at only about 3% p.a. in real terms, and total Government recurrent expenditures
are expected to virtually stagnate. Yet the MOE projects that enrollments will
grow at about 2% p.a. at the primary level, 5% p.a. at the secondary level, and
4% p.a. at the higrher level. Other factors will also tend to raise the
recurrent cost of education, including (a) teachers' pressure to increase their
real incomes; (b) a decline in primary student-teacher ratio; (c) improvements
in the qualifications of the teaching force; and (d) increases in the percentage
of national teachers (as opposed to expatriate teachers, whose salaries are paid
by donor agencies).  An increase of about 4% p.a. in real terms in the MOE's
budget would allow the projected expansions of enrollments and desired improve-
ments in quality; such growth would increase the MOE's share of the total
recurrent budget from an estimated 21% in 1980/81 to an estimated 25% in
1985/86. Based onI the evidence of the past ten years, figures of 21% to 25%
would be above average but would not surpass the high of 26% reached in 1977/78.
Capital expenditures on education and training by the MOE are budgeted to remain
virtually unchanged in real terms during the third NDP period.
2.43    Given Lesotho's unique set of circumstances, a policy of spending a
quarter of the recurrent budget on education may not be out of place.(6) In the
first place, the allocation of 5% of GNP to education may be somewhat above the
average for sub-Saharan African countries, but it is not unusual. In the second
place, Lesotho has no external-defense budget, such that funds which in other
countries would be expended on defense may in Lesotho be diverted to other sec-
tors. In the third place, the opportunities for high-productivity investment in
Lesotho are limited and it may be that the highest marginal returns accrues to
investment in human-resource development, particularly in basic education and
basic skill training. Given these factors, the projected increase in the level
of expenditure seems reasonable.
(6) The figure reached 30% in Burundi in 1971, 34% and 40% in the Ivory
Coast in 1973 and 1976, respectively, and 50% in the People's Republic of
the Congo in 1976.



- 17 -
Maintenance of Facilities
2.44    Maintenance of classroom facilities are the responsibility of the mis-
sions who own and operate the schools. This maintenance responsibility is
expected to continue for classrooms constructed under the proposed project
although the ownership of the classrooms will be by the Government. The exist-
ing maintenance system, which is generally adequate (average of about M3.00 per
student p.a.), works as follows: the missions maintain the schools using funds
from a maintenance fee which they are authorized to collect, Inspectors from the
MOE visit the schools periodically to ensure adequate maintenance is performed
and when deficiencies are noted, the missions are given until the next inspec-
tion (usually one year) to correct the situation. While the system has worked
reasonably well in the past, it should be reviewed to determine if it is still
appropriate for present day needs. Consequently, the architectural team should
review the existing maintenance policies and procedures and make recommenda-
tions, as appropriate, in this respect (paras. 5.05 and 7.02 (d)).
Role of the Bank Group in Education in Lesotho
2.45    Past Experience.  The Bank Group, which is the major source of external
capital financing for education in Lesotho, has assisted the development of the
education and training sector since 1974 and has contributed to the financing of
two previous education projects.
2.46    The First IDA Education Project (Credit No. 497-LSO), approved in July
1974, in the amount of US$4.0 million, was designed to (a) expand technical and
commercial education at the senior-secondary level; (b) establish an extension
college (the Lesotho Distance Teaching Center) for adult and non-formal educa-
tion; and (c) provide facilities and equipment for the introduction of a new and
more practically oriented curriculum in six general-secondary schools. Funds
were also provided for technical assistance and project administration. The
project was completed by the original Credit Closing Date (March 31, 1979), and
a Project Completion Report (PCR) was issued on October 30, 1979. The 1980 OED
Audit Report No. 2999 found that the project's educational objectives and tar-
gets, apart from the limited enrollment in the distance teaching program, were
almost fully achieved. It also noted that all of the project facilities pro-
vided were being used for several purposes, particularly to serve out-of-school
young women and men in keeping with the philosophy of the project. The project
did not, however, address the question of the difficulty of access of poorer
students to the fee-charging secondary schools.
2.47    The Second IDA Education Project (Credit No. 748-LSO), approved in
November 1977, in the amount of US$7.5 million, was designed to (a) expand two
additional senior-secondary technical schools; (b) establish a Trade-Testing
System; (c) unify and encourage curriculum-development efforts through the pro-
vision of a National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC); (d) increase the
number of general-secondary schools with facilities for the new, more practical
curriculum; and (e) encourage a community-outreach program and the use of



- 18 -
project-provided facilities during free periods by adults and out-of-school
youth. Funds were also provided for technical assistance, pre-investment stu-
dies, and project administration. After getting off to a good start, the pro-
ject encountered dielays in implementation due to weak administration. However,
with the appointment in January 1980 of a new management team, implementation
has improved, and it is likely that the project will be completed by the origi-
nal Closing Date of December 31, 1981.
2.48    Lessons Learned.  The PCR for the First IDA Education Project and the
OED Audit Report noted, inter alia, that:
(a)  in particular, careful attention should be given to the
strengthening of the quality of primary education, and to
programs to train youth and adults in vocational skills.
The proposed Third Education Project addresses these
points;
(b)  the MOE should improve and strengthen its policy-planning
and policy-implementing capacity. In addition, it should give
more attention to the problem of difficuty of access of poorer
students to fee-charging secondary schools. The proposed
Third Education Project includes funds to strengthen the Planning
Division and the Statistics Unit of the MOE which would, inter
alia, study these problems (para. 3.21);
(c)  the effectiveness as an institution of the Project Unit (TSRP)
could be improved. The proposed Third Education Project would
provide for additional technical assistance to strengthen the
unit, and channels of communication with the Ministry of Works
(MOW) would be improved by assigning one of the architects of
the MOW's architectural team the responsibility of coordinating
work between the TSRP, the MOE and the MOW (para. 5.03); and
(d)  due consideration in the design of projects should be given
to the limited capacity of the local construction industry.
In this respect, the primary school classroom component and
other civil works have been kept to a size that can be
implemented within a reasonable time frame and would include
developing low cost models and procedures for possible widespread
replication of primary classroom facilities (para. 5.05).
Lending Strategy
2.49    Since the greatest national resource of Lesotho is its people, the Bank
Group strategy for future lending in the education and training sector should,
in particular, assist the Government in its efforts to continue to improve the
quality, efficiency and equity of its basic education system and to provide its
people with the skills which would enhance their employment opportunities.



- 19 -
Consistent with this strategy, the following areas would be appropriate for
further Bank Group assistance:
(a) Primary Education. Among the countries of Africa, Lesotho has one
of the highest enrollment ratios, yet one of the poorest primary-level physical
infrastructures. Recent evidence indicates that investments in primary educa-
tion have a greater economic return than do investments in any other type of
education, and that primary education of good quality is critical to the success
of further education and training. Lesotho should continue to be assisted in
improving the quality, efficiency, and equity in its primary education system.
There is also evidence that Bank Group support of primary education, especially
through the Bank Group's attention to the institution-building aspects of the
investment program, is likely to assist in attracting other donors who have
expressed interest in the subsector (including, in particular, the European
Economic Community (EEC) and the United Kingdom (ODA)).
(b) Vocational and Technical Education. Although manpower projections
can give only a rough guideline of what Lesotho's real needs for skilled man-
power will be, there is evidence that further capacity for vocational and
technical education (including the industrial and commercial streams) would be
needed, even if no further job opportunities were available in the RSA. Further
assistance in this educational field should continue to be reviewed for possible
inclusion in future projects.
(c) Entrepreneurial and Managerial Training. A critical constraint to
further development in Lesotho is the limited shortage of skills and experience
necessary to carry out development programs and projects successfully. The
NUL's Institute of Extra-Mural Studies (para. 2.25) offers courses for
entrepreneurs and managers, and assistance for the expansion of its activities
should be considered.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01    The proposed project is designed to (a) assist the Government in its
efforts to improve the quality and efficiency of its primary education system,
with special efforts to make it more equitable and (b) to meet manpower needs by
provision of training for school leavers and unskilled adults. Specifically,
the proposed project would assist an investment program consisting of (a) the
provision of about 150 primary-school classrooms, including furniture, primarily
to accommodate students now attending school in the open air or in sub-standard
and overcrowded facilities, but also to develop low-cost models for possible
widespread replication; (b) the provision of appropriate textbooks to primary-
school children in the three core subjects of Sesotho, English, and mathematics
and including the establishment of permanent textbook supply infrastructure; (c)



- 20 -
provisions of new facilities at the Thaba Tseka Vocational Training Center and
at the Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization Center; (d) technical assistance
to improve the implementation capacity of the Project Implementation Unit
(TSRP), and the MDE, and assistance to the MOE to improve and strengthen its
Planning Division and its Statistics Unit; and (e) preinvestment funds for the
identification and preparation of future projects.
Project Components
3.02    Primary -School Classroom Facilities.  The school-mapping exercise com-
pleted in September 1980, enabled the MOE to, inter alia, quantify and describe
accurately the existing supply of classrooms and to estimate future needs. The
mapping exercise revealed the following situation:
Total class- New class-
Enrollment in   No. of Existing   Pupil/   rooms needed  rooms needed
District      Primary Educa-    Classrooms    Classroom  (50:1 Ratio) (50:1 Ratio)
tion 1979                           Ratio             (1985/86)____
Butha-Buthe           15,230           210            72.5          334          124
Leribe                41,086           444            92.5          860          416
Berea                 30,493           388            78.6          630          242
Maseru                46,812           600            78.0          962          362
Mafeteng              30,213           325            93.0          668          343
Mohale's Hoek         22,517           254            88.6          586          332
Quthing               14,699           180            81.7          382          202
Quacha's Nek           9,856           130            75.8          216           86
Mokhotlong            10,580           137            77.2          260          123
Thaba-Tseka           13,568           175            77.5          366          191
TOTAL       235,604         2,843            82.9         5264         2421
The mapping exercise disclosed that Lesotho had one of Africa's worst known
primary-classroom supply. For the 1979 enrollment of 235,600 pupils there were
only 2,840 classrooms, which meant that there was only one classroom for every
83 pupils. To reach the MOE's goal of one classroom for every 50 pupils, the
country would req uire about 5,300 classrooms of which about 2,400 would be new.
The mapping exercise also revealed that of the existing classrooms, 72% were
adequate, 10% were in such bad state that they should be replaced, and 18% were
in need of renovation. It is likely that the 10% of the classrooms that should
be replaced, will continue in use for some time. In regards to renovation
needs, this is tco be undertaken jointly by the missions and the Government. In
addition, the mapping exercise also revealed that 40% of the pupils sit on the
floor and another 27% are inadequately seated. Finally, only 40% of Lesotho's
primary schools have the facilities to offer the full seven-year primary cycle.



- 21 -
The MOE has established, as a medium-term goal, a pupil-classroom ratio of 50:1
and plans to begin improving the primary-classroom situation by building about
600 classrooms during the Third NDP period (1980/81 to 1985/86). Classrooms
will be built first in the areas which heretofore have been most disadvantaged,
in terms of classroom provision, starting at schools where students meet at
present in the open air or where there are over 100 pupils per classroom.
3.03    In the short term, therefore, this project component is designed to
assist the Government in providing classroom facilities and furniture in the
most disadvantaged areas and in lowering the present very high pupil:classroom
ratio. A minimum of 150 classrooms would be built under the project; if imple-
mentation can be accelerated, and if cost-reducing construction methods can be
further developed, the number could well be higher than 150. Satisfactory sites
have been selected based on the findings of the school-mapping exercise (paras.
3.02, 5.07 and 7.01)
3.04    The classrooms would be simple in design (Annex 2), and would accomodate
50 pupils each, and would be furnished modestly with a chalkboard, seats and
writing surfaces for the pupils, a lockable cupboard for book storage, and a
desk and chair for the teacher. Since these classroom facilities are to be
located at existing schools, ancillary facilities are not included in the pro-
posed project. These proposed facilities (classrooms and furniture) combined
together with the existing and other facilities proposed (para. 3.05) would pro-
vide for about 60% of the needs of the subsector.
3.05    The Lesotho Evangelical Church (LEC) is also initiating a primary-
classroom project under which it plans to build about 120 classrooms at 60
schools and rehabilitate many other classrooms which are currently in need of
repairs. The EEC as well is funding a primary-classroom project, to build 15
double classroom units. The ODA has also provided funds for a primary-classroom
project, but these last two projects have foundered for lack of architectural
and supervisory capacity. Standardized designs and methods of construction
developed under the proposed project are likely to be utilized by the donors
mentioned above. These ongoing projects, together with the Proposed Third Edu-
cation Project, would provide over half of the primary-school classrooms the
Government hopes to build during the Third NDP period. It is believed that the
institutional building aspects of the proposed project may attract other donors
into the primary-education subsector (paras. 5.03-5.05).
3.06    Textbooks.  The proposed project would provide for the purchase and dis-
tribution of textbooks and workbooks in the three core subjects (English,
Sesotho, and mathematics) to all children attending primary-level education.
This component would be administered by a Book Supply Unit to be established and
located in the MOE. The MOE would establish a nominal book-usage fee so that
children could use the books for a year and pay only a fraction of the full cost
of buying them. This fee would be M 2.00 per year in grade one, M 3.00 per year
in grades two through five, and M 5.00 per year in grades six and seven; the fee
would cover the use of all textbooks needed by the child in that year. Children



- 22 -
able to show that they could not afford to pay even the minimal fee would be
allowed to use the books free of charge. The books would be of durable quality
and are expected tD have an average life of about three years. The project
would also provide for the distribution of the books as well as modest book-
storage facilities.
3.07    The textbooks to be provided at the outset would be textbooks that are
either currently in use or else adaptations of textbooks currently being used in
other countries, preferably other African countries. To arrive at a selection,
the MOE would inform the various publishers' associations, inter alios, of its
intention to review existing books in order to select those most closely related
to the syllabi and needs of Lesotho. The NCDC (para. 2.04) would review and
test the books in the schools in order to make a final selection of about three
series in each subject. The Book Supply Unit would then call for tenders for
the supply of the textbooks, the teachers' guides, and ancillary items such as
charts and teacher-training materials and training of teachers in the use of the
textbooks. The Book Supply Unit would administer the selection, procurement,
and distribution of the books, as well as the fee collection. The Unit would be
headed by a textbook specialist (financed under the proposed project) assisted
by a Mosotho counterpart who would replace the specialist at the close of the
project. In addition, an assistant (accountant) and a secretary (both nation-
als) would be required. Sufficient office space is available in the MOE. To
ensure early implementation of the component, a textbook specialist is to be
hired, financed through investment funds available from the Second IDA Education
Project, for about three months. This specialist will assist the MOE in the
establishment of t:he Unit and the pre-selection of the textbooks in the three
core subjects. In addition, funds for three man years for this specialist are
included in this proposed project (para. 3.22). Under the Unit's supervision,
books procured f.o.b. in Maseru would be distributed to the schools using the
services of two existing mission distributors.
3.08    The proposed project would finance the initial supply and distribution
of about 1,900,000 textbooks. A pilot distribution would begin in 1982 in the
Thaba Tseka District, followed by a national distribution in 1983. In addition,
two book replenislhments, the first in the Thaba Tseka District in 1984 and the
second in the entire country in 1985, would be funded under the proposed pro-
ject. The fees collected for these textbooks during the project period would be
placed in a special interest-bearing account. This special account would even-
tually become a self-sustaining revolving fund. The monies from the annual
usage fees and the interest earned on them would, within five years, become
available for annual book replenishment, thus enabling the Government to replace
books as necessary at little additional cost. The annual book-usage fees would
be collected with the assistance of the Ministry of Finance's sub-accountancy
offices, located in all the major centers in Lesotho. In the future and if
necessary, fees would be adjusted upwards to enable the system to continue to be
as self-financing as possible but would be kept to the minimum necessary to
avoid placing an undue burden, in particular, on the disadvantaged families.



- 23 -
3.09    Annex 1, T-3, outlines the requirements, including storage and distribu-
tion costs, of the proposed textbook component. When fully implemented, this
component would substantially improve the quality of primary education in
Lesotho (para. 6.03). In particular, the availability of textbooks to all chil-
dren, including those from poorer families, should assist them in successfully
completing the full primary-education cycle.
3.10    In the long term, Lesotho hopes to be able to write its own primary-
level textbooks, which would then be printed by commercial firms. The NCDC
(paras. 2.04 and 3.07), the division responsible for developing curricula and
writing textbooks, nevertheless estimates that this development is still at
least ten years hence. Since textbooks will have to be renewed periodically in
any case, no interruption of the book-usage-fee scheme and revolving fund is
foreseen. The MOE already has an Instructional Materials Resource Center (IMRC)
which produces instructional materials other than textbooks and teachers'
guides. The activities of the IMRC and the NCDC have not been very closely
coordinated in the past. The MOE is presently redefining the responsibilities
of the two units to eliminate duplication, inter alia, for a more effective use
of their resources.
3.11    As a condition of disbursement against the textbook component, the MOE
would, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank Group; (a) establish and staff a
Book Supply Unit within the MOE which would be responsible for the procurement
and distribution of books and for the collection (with the assistance of the
Ministry of Finance - para. 3.08) of book-usage fees; (b) establish a special
account to be used exclusively for the textbook replenishment; (c) establish the
textbook-fee policy; (d) redefine the responsibilities and reorganize accord-
ingly, the IMRC and the NCDC in order to ensure their coordination in the effec-
tive implementation of the Government's textbook policy; and (e) establish the
standardization policy for the textbooks in the three core subjects (Sesotho,
English, and mathematics) (para. 7.03).
3.12    Thaba Tseka Vocational Training Center (TVTC).  Vocational training is
presently being offered in Thaba Tseka on a limited basis under the sponsorship
of the Thaba Tseka Regional Development Program (TRDP), the only such training
offered in the mountain regions of Lesotho. Phase I (September 1975-May 1978)
of the Government's Development Program, with financial assistance from the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the Bank Group, inter
alios, initiated an agricultural development project, development of a road (now
completed) connecting to the capital city and other infrastructure such as the
development of the town site. Phase II (April 1979 - March 1984) is concentrat-
ing on manpower development and is designed to enhance the quality of life of
the mountain people in the region by improving the quality and output of agri-
culture. It is being assisted by numerous donor agencies including CIDA, the
Irish Government, the US Peace Corps, DANIDA, EEC, among others.
3.13    During Phase I, TRDP began skill training programs in building construc-
tion, carpentry, mechanical fitting, sewing, and knitting. At present, the



- 24 -
courses are taught by officers of the TRDP who also have other duties, and the
teaching facilities are borrowed either from the TRDP or the adjacent Farmer
Training Center (FTC). The TRDP and FTC facilities are gradually developing
programs to fully utilize the facilities for their own operations, and as a
result the skill training programs of the TRDP are now required to obtain their
own facilities. Without such facilities, the needed manpower for both the TRDP
and other local needs will not be available, thus affecting the potential suc-
cess of the rural development scheme.
3.14    The proposed project would provide academic and communal facilities for
about 110 trainees, boarding facilities for about 70 men and 30 women, and 6
staff houses. In addition, equipment and furniture would be provided. Adequate
and suitable land has been designated. The Government has provided assurance
that the MOE would employ, by not later than April 1, 1982, an adequate number
of qualified teaching staff for the TVTC (para. 7.02 (a)). Four of the sixteen
staff members, presently provided through bilateral assistance, are expected to
remain during the project period and until qualified local staff can be
recruited to replace them. Courses offered at the TVTC would include the fol-
lowing: (a) building construction and carpentry, for 30 trainees each in a 10-
month course; (b) mechanical fitting for 15 trainees in a 10-month course; (c)
leather working for 10 trainees in a 12-month course; (d) sewing for 15 trainees
in a 6-month course; and (e) knitting for 10 trainees in a 6-month course. The
sewing and knitting courses would have two intakes p.a., so that the Center's
total output would. be about 135 trainees p.a.
3.15    The objective of the Center is to train local people who would likely
remain in the mountain area. Upon completion of the vocational training
courses, they wou].d be encouraged to establish small businesses in their own
villages, wherever possible. All training programs will therefore include some
basic concepts of financial management and entrepreneurial skills. In addition,
each course will have the prerequisite that the trainees apply their skills
within established production units under the control of the TRDP. These units
will also give the trainees the opportunity to earn sufficient money during
their training period to be able to buy the basic tools or equipment needed to
establish their own small businesses. On a small scale, this system has already
functioned successfully for several years.
3.16    Draft curricula and syllabi are being prepared and are expected to be
finalized with the assistance of the LTI (para. 2.02). The curricula would be
submitted to the Bank Group for review by not later than January 31, 1982 (para.
7.02 (b)). Certification upon completion of the present courses is internal,
but, in the future, the aim is to have each candidate take the Trade Test, Grade
C, administered by the Trade Testing Committee within the Ministry of Labor, so
that his or her skills will be certified nationally.
3.17    Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization Center (LOIC).  This proposed
project component would assist in the permanent establishment of the LOIC in
Maseru, a communiLy-based non-formal educational institution offering access to



- 25 -
vocational training to school leavers and post-primary-school dropouts. The
Opportunities Industrialization Center International (OICI), which is providing
technical assistance to LOIC, has previously established manpower-training
activities in several African countries. Since June 1978, the LOIC has been
assisted by the OICI through funds provided by USAID. A Memorandum of Agreement
between the Government and USAID was signed in April 1980 for a grant of US$2.0
million, to cover the cost of equipment, limited initial operational costs and
technical assistance (provided by OICI) for a period of about five years.
Organizationally, LOIC falls under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. It
has a Board of Directors of 15 members including the Deputy Permanent Secre-
taries of Commerce and Industry, Education, Agriculture, and Information, the
Deputy Directors of the Lesotho National Bank and the Basotho Enterprise
Development Corporation (BEDCO), the Director of LTI and other prominent
citizens. A program director is in charge of the day-to-day activities of the
LOIC, performing his duties with the close cooperation of a six-man technical
cooperation team from OICI.
3.18    At present, LOIC is operating temporarily in borrowed facilities at the
LTI and has its office in a small prefabricated building about 1.5 kilometers
from the training facilities. Both of these facilities are temporary and inade-
quate. Effective communication and coordination between administration and
training is made difficult by this physical separation, and the sharing of some
equipment with LTI presents difficulties for scheduling of instruction, the
maintenance of equipment, and administration. At the Government's request, OICI
carried out a feasibility study financed by USAID in November 1975. On the
basis of its findings, a training program was developed which emphasized the
upgrading of building trades skills, as well as entrepreneurial, foreman, and
management training. These courses are preceeded by a preparatory feeder (test-
ing) course which assesses the training needs and capabilities of the entrants.
The length of the training period varies from about six to ten months. The
LOIC's vocational-skill-training programs are supported by counselling, job
information and placement, and follow-up services. Counselling takes place dur-
ing the admission and training periods (feeder and vocational courses), and dur-
ing the on-the-job and placement periods. Private firms are approached on
behalf of the trainees with a view to securing employment, initially on the
basis of on-the-job training for a period of three months. A trainee's perfor-
mance during this on-the-job training is monitored by the LOIC, and before the
end of the training period, the possibilities of permanent employment are exam-
ined together with the trainee and the potential employer. To date about 200
trainees are reported to have found employment, and about 80% have passed the
official trade tests (Grade C) in their respective trades.
3.19    The proposed project would provide permanent facilities for the LOIC
consisting of classrooms, workshops, and an administration block. The facili-
ties would be used for the following training: (a) a "feeder" course for a max-
imum of 30 trainees with an average duration of three months; (b) skill-training
courses in building construction (for 30 trainees), in carpentry (for 30
trainees), and in plumbing/sheet-metal working (for 15 trainees), each with an



- 26 -
average duration of 12 months; (c) two courses per year, each of five months'
duration, for building foremen (20 trainees per course); (d) a course in
entrepreneurial skills, of varying length, for about 30 trainees per year; and
(e) management-development courses, of varying length, for about 60 trainees per
year. Detailed curricula and syllabi which are being tested and finalized with
the assistance of the OICI would be submitted to the Bank Group for review by
not later then January 31, 1982 (para. 7.02(b)).
3.20    All staff except for the six OICI experts are Basotho.  The OICI staff
will remain until all staff have been fully trained and are capable of taking
over all responsibilities for running the Center.
3.21    Evaluation and Pre-investment Studies.  The proposed project also
includes funds (US$175,000) to improve and strengthen the evaluation, policy-
planning and policy-implementing capacity of the planning division and the
statistics units in the MOE. These units would be responsible for the prepara-
tion and administration of diagnostic tools which would assist the MOE evaluate
the cost, quality, and equity of its education system. The studies would
review, inter alia, the difficulties of access of poorer students to secondary
schools that charge fees. Pre-investment Funds (US$125,000) would also be
included for the detailed preparation of future projects including project-
related activities and studies. Terms of reference for evaluation programs and
other studies to be financed under evaluation/pre-investment studies would be
satisfactory to the Bank Group (para. 7.02 (c)).
3.22    Technical Assistance.  Listed below is a summary of the technical assis-
tance required for successful project implementation (22 man-years), of which
about 13 man-years (156 man-months) would be financed under the proposed pro-
ject.
Man-Months
Provided    Provided
under the   by Other
No.     Specialist                   Required    Project      Agencies
1      Architect /Coordinator            60           -          60
1      Architect                         60           36         24
1      Construction
Supervisor/Architect             60           60           -
1      Procurement Specialist            48          24          24
1      Textbook Specialist               36           36          -
264         156         108



- 27 -
3.23    The Government of Ireland is providing five man-years of the services of
the architect/coordinator and will provide two man-years of the services of an
architect. The procurement officer is presently being financed under the Second
IDA Education Project. Financing is included in the proposed project for the
continuation of the services of the architect and procurement officer on comple-
tion of the Government of Ireland's obligation for the architect and the comple-
tion of the Second IDA Education Project (paras. 5.02 and 5.03). Funds are
included under project administration for the salaries of local architectural
technicians (ten man-years) and construction supervisors (fifteen man-years)
(para. 5.03). These specialists, technicians and supervisors would be selected
and appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group.
Female Participation in the Education System
3.24    Female participation in the formal education system in 1979 was as fol-
lows: (a) at the primary level (grades 1-7), females represented 59% of the
total enrollment; (b) at the secondary level (grades 8-12), 58%; and (c) at the
higher level, 47%. The proposed project would provide (a) primary classrooms,
where the participation of girls is estimated at 100% of the age group (6-12)
(para. 2.05); and (b) textbooks for all primary pupils, of whom girls outnumber
boys throughout, but particularly in the last three grades, where the girl-boy
ratio is 2:1.



- 28 -
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
4.01    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$13.1 million
equivalent, including custom duties and taxes estimated at US$0.5 million
equivalent. The estimated costs and foreign-exchange components by category and
by project item are given in Annex 1, T-4 and T-5, respectively, and are summar-
ized below:
Maloti (Million)      US$ (Million)
__________-    ___---   -------------------   %    of
Item                 Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total  Base Cost
1. Civil works, furniture,
equipment and textbooks
a)  Primary Education          0.79   2.73   3.52   1.02   3.52   4.54          48
b)  Vocational Education       0.51   0.91   1.42   0.66   1.17   1.83          19
2.  Technical Assistance            0.17   0.67   0.84   0.22   0.87   1.09           11
3.  Professional Services (A/E)   0.16   0.11   0.27   0.21   0.14   0.35              4
4. Evaluation/Pre-ILnvestment
Studies                         0.12   0.18   0.30   0.16   0.23   0.39           4
5.  Project Administration          0.73   0.31   1.04   0.94   0.40   1.34           14
Base cost (1-5)           2.49   4.90   7.39   3.21   6.33   9.54          100
(Sept. 1981)
6. Contingencies
a)  Physical (5%)              0.14   0.26   0.40   0.18   0.34   0.52
b)  Price increase (30%)       0.76   1.60   2.36   0.98   2.06   3.04
Sub-total (6)             0.90   1.86   2.76   1.16   2.40   3.56
Total Project Cost (1-6)       3.39   6.76  10.15   4.37   8.73  13.10
of which taxes         (0.39)    -   (0.39) (0.50)    -   (0.50)



- 29 -
4.02    Cost estimates for civil works and furniture were derived from a review
by Bank Group staff of data provided by: (a) the MOW, from its wide range of
activities in the building sector; (b) the Project Unit, based on its experience
in implementing the first and second education projects and on recently awarded
contracts; and (c) the private sector, including firms of architects and quan-
tity surveyors and contractors. The austere schedules of accommodations on
which the cost estimates are based are functional, and the furniture and text-
books would be of a type pertinent to the country for achieving the proposed
project's educational objectives.
4.03    The average unit base cost (September 1981 prices) of construction for
the primary-school classrooms is US$183/m2 equivalent. The cost of the
primary-school classrooms varies according to their locations (about 40) with a
cost ranging from about US$178/m2 equivalent in the lowlands to about US$192/m2
equivalent in the mountain areas. The classrooms are simple in design (Annex 2)
and would make maximum use of local materials and simple building techniques.
Although a direct comparison of costs is difficult, since all classrooms would
be extensions to existing schools, the cost per pupil place of US$255 equivalent
compares with US$235 equivalent in Malawi (1979) and US$256 equivalent in Swazi-
land (1979). Annex 3 compares unit area and unit cost of the vocational schools
included in the proposed project with median values of similar Bank-wide pro-
jects. The cost estimates for textbooks as outlined in Annex 1, T-3, were
prepared by a consultant textbook specialist in conjunction with the MOE and
private publishing firms.
4.04    The technical-assistance component (para. 3.22), consisting of about 156
man-months of specialists' services, is estimated at an average cost of US$7,000
per man-month. This cost includes salary, housing, travel, and allowances.
4.05    Professional services (para. 5.06), equivalent to about 44 man-months of
architectural/engineering services, is estimated at an average rate of US$7,000
per man-month. This includes salary, overhead, and fees.
4.06    Custom Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the pro-
posed project would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes, in line with
the practice of the Government to grant customs duties and tax exemption to
imports for educational purposes. Some of the materials to be used in the con-
struction of the proposed institutions would be acquired on the open market and
would be subject to customs duties and/or taxes as, similarly, some professional
services would be. Of the estimated costs for civil works and professional ser-
vices, about US$0.50 million equivalent would represent customs duties and
taxes.
4.07    Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, 10% has been added
to the base costs of civil works and professional services and 5% to the base
costs of furniture, equipment and textbooks. Price increases, from the base
cost date (September 1981), have been applied in accordance with the
implementation schedule (Annex 1, T-6) at the following annual rates:



- 30 -
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Foreign          13%      12%      11%     10%       9%
Local            13%      12%      11%     10%       9%
Because of Lesotho's strong economic ties with the RSA (in particular, most
imports of Lesotho originate in the RSA) and the fact that inflation rates have
been very similar in both countries, foreign price increases have been projected
at the same level as local price increases.
4.08    Foreign-Exchange Component. The foreign-exchange component has been cal-
culated as follows: (a) civil works, 60%; (b) furniture, 70%; (c) equipment and
technical assistance, 80%; (d) textbooks, 90%; (e) professional services, 40%;
(f) evaluation/pre-investment studies, 60%; and (g) project administration, 30%.
Including contingenc:ies, the foreign-exchange component is estimated at US$8.7
million equivalent or 69% of the total project cost net of taxes.
Financial Plan
4.09    The total project cost of US$13.1 million equivalent would be financed
with an IDA Credit of SDR 8.2 million (US$10.0 million equivalent), representing
80% of the total project cost net of taxes. The Credit would cover all
foreign-exchange costs (US$8.7 million) and 34% of the local-currency cost
excluding custom duties and taxes, as follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Government        IDA               Total
1.  Civil works                   0.57            2.79              3.36
2.  Furniture and equipment       0.02            0.36              0.38
3.  Textbooks                     0.03            2.60              2.63
4.  Technical assistance          0.19            0.90               1.09
5.  Professional services         0.07            0.28              0.35
6. Evaluation/Pre-invest-
ment Studies                  0.09           0.30               0.39
7.  Project administration        0.59            0.75              1.34
8.  Unallocated                    1.46           2.02              3.56
TOTAL                         3.02          10.00              13.10
of which taxes            (0.50)                            (0.50)



- 31 -
4.10    The maximum Government capital contribution to the project in any single
year is not expected to exceed US$1.2 million equivalent (M 0.9 million). This
would occur in FY 1983/84 and based on a conservative projection of the funds
likely to be available to the MOE for capital expenditures in that year, the
expenditure on the proposed project would be about 14% of the MOE's capital
budget in that year. The recurrent expenditures generated by the project are
estimated to amount to about M430,000 (in FY 1980/81 constant prices) by FY
1985/86, when the project would be in full operation; this amount represents
less than 2% of the MOE's estimated recurrent budget in that year--much of the
project would consist of providing facilities for existing educational activi-
ties.
V. IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS, AND AUDITING
Implementation
5.01    The project would be implemented over a period of about five years,
including six months for completion of payments and withdrawals (Annex 1, T-6).
The project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986, with a Closing Date
of September 30, 1986. The implementation schedule is based on, inter alia,
experience derived from the First and Second IDA Education Projects in Lesotho.
5.02    Administration.  An independent Project Authority, responsible for
overall project control and representing the Ministries of Education, Finance,
Planning, Agriculture, Health, Works, and Community and Rural Development, was
established for the First IDA Education Project in Lesotho by Government Notice
No. 109 of 1974 and its Legal Notice No. 40 of September 5, 1975. The Project
Unit, called in Lesotho the "Training for Self Reliance Project" (TSRP), esta-
blished by the Project Authority for the First IDA Education Project and contin-
ued for the Second IDA Education Project, would perform all administrative func-
tions for the proposed Third IDA Education Project. The TSRP is functioning
well, and its key staff have the experience and the capacity to implement the
proposed project. The Unit is staffed with a director, a deputy director, an
accountant, a consultant procurement officer, and supporting staff, all on a
full-time basis. Technical assistance funds are included in the proposed pro-
ject to continue the services of a procurement specialist (2 man-years), who is
presently financed under the Second IDA Education Project, and to add the ser-
vices of a textbook specialist (3 man-years), who would be located in the MOE
(para. 3.07). Adequate office accomodations exist. Operational expenses
including salaries for project administration would be provided under the pro-
posed project.
5.03    For architectural/engineering services for the implementation of the
Second IDA Education Project, the MOW established an architectural team respon-
sible for the design and supervision of construction of all project facilities.
This team is housed, for better communication, in the TSRP's office facilities.



- 32 -
It was never fully staffed, however, because of the difficulties in recruiting
qualified professionals; in lieu thereof, the services of a quantity surveyor
and of construction supervisors were provided by consulting firms. At its peak,
the architectural team included two architects, two architectural technicians,
and one construction supervisor, plus local counterparts. After some initial
difficulties, the architectural team is now carrying out its assigned tasks in a
satisfactory manner, and it will be assigned the responsibility for the adminis-
tration of the implementation of the physical facilities and the classroom sur-
vey (para. 5.05) included in the proposed project. To facilitate the coordina-
tion of administrative responsibilities between the TSRP and the MOW, one of the
architects would be specifically assigned this coordinating responsibility.
Presently, the architectural team consists of two architects and one architec-
tural technician. To strengthen the team, the following additional staff are
required: a construction supervisor, who should be a qualified architect or
engineer (in lieu of the quantity surveyor - para. 5.06), an additional archi-
tectural technician, and a construction supervisor, together with additional
supporting staff. The service of one architect is provided by the Government of
Ireland; this assistance is expected to continue until completion of the pro-
posed project. The second architect, presently being provided by DANIDA, will
be replaced by an architect provided also by the Government of Ireland.  However
his contract is likely to be for only two years; therefore, three man-years of
technical assistance for this post are included in the project. Funds are
included under project administration for the salaries of the local architec-
tural technicians (t:en man-years) and construction supervisors (15 man-years).
The team would also be supported by private consulting firms (paras. 5.04 and
5.06).
5.04    Pre-investment funds from the Second IDA Education Project are being
used to hire consultants to survey the existing primary-school sites where the
classrooms would be constructed. The survey is to determine, on an initial
basis, the most economic and efficient method of carrying out the construction
program for the primary-school-classroom component and including modifications,
as appropriate, to existing standardized MOW primary-school-classroom design
documents. In addition, the funds are being used for consultant services to
prepare the initial designs of the TVTC and the LOIC.
5.05    As a continuation of the work being carried out under the pre-investment
survey (para. 5.04), the architectural team would monitor, evaluate, and develop
guidelines, designs, etc. to determine the most effective or appropriate con-
struction standards and methods for the replication of the primary-school facil-
ities (including furniture) on a nationwide basis. The team would also review
existing maintenance policies and procedures and make recommendations, as
appropriate, to safeguard the Government's capital investments in such facili-
ties (para. 2.44). Semi-annual reports on the findings and recommendations of
this review would be provided to the Bank Group and would be the subject of con-
sultation between the Bank Group and the Government in the course of project
supervision (para. 7.02 (d)).



- 33 -
5.06    Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  To assist the archi-
tectural team, funds have been included for specialized consulting services
(engineering, quantity surveying, and land surveying) (para. 4.05). These
locally established consultants would be selected and appointed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group.
5.07    Site Selection.  The primary-school classrooms to be included in the
proposed project are all expansions to existing schools on sites for which the
land has previously been allocated to the local communities and designated as
school land (identified by a school-mapping exercise completed in September
1980). The satisfactory location of about 40 sites have been provided to the
Bank Group (paras. 3.03 and 7.01). Satisfactory sites have been designated for
the TVTC and the LOIC. No problem is envisaged in the provision of adequate
land.
5.08    Reporting and Evaluation.  Semi-annual reports on implementation pro-
gress would be submitted within one month after each period following a mutually
agreed-upon format. A project evaluation report would be provided not later
than five months after the Credit Closing Date. The TSRP, with assistance from
all Ministries involved, would prepare the report, evaluating the execution,
initial operations, costs, and benefits of the proposed project, and the perfor-
mance of the Government and the Bank Group, including lessons learned during
project implementation (para. 7.02 (e)).
Procurement
5.09    Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and textbooks would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement, except as follows: (a) civil
works for primary-school classrooms and contracts costing less than US$200,000
equivalent each; and (b) furniture, equipment and textbook contracts, including
contracts for local distribution of textbooks, costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each. Due to their small size and remote and scattered locations,
construction of the primary-school facilities would be awarded by: (i) competi-
tive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satis-
factory to the Bank Group (estimated at US$1.2 million equivalent including con-
tingencies); or (ii) on the basis of negotiations with the individual mission
schools which previously have carried out their own construction programs
(estimated at US$1.0 million equivalent including contingencies). It is
expected that a few schools would be able neither to attract interested local
bidders nor to carry out their own construction program, in which case the TSRP
would arrange to carry out the work through use of department forces such as the
Labor-Intensive Construction Brigades(7) (force-account methods). It is
(7) A unit established in the MOW on the recommendation of a UNDP/IBRD
migrant workers re-employment mission and financed under the Second High-
way Project (Credit 619-LSO).



- 34 -
estimated that about: 20% (US$0.5 million equivalent including contingencies) of
the classrooms coulcl possibly be constructed utilizing this method. Civil works
contracts costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each and furniture, equipment
and textbooks contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each would be
awarded by competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group. Contracts to be awarded by ICB, con-
sisting of civil works, furniture, equipment and textbooks, are estimated at
US$5.8 million equivalent.
5.10    Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master lists
of furniture, equipment, vehicles, and textbooks indicating proposed grouping
would be reviewed by the Bank Group. Items would be grouped to the extent prac-
ticable to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender-evaluation documents by
the Bank Group prior to award would not be required for contracts for civil-
works costing less than $200,000 each and for contracts for furniture, equip-
ment, textbooks and vehicles each costing less than US$50,000 equivalent.
5.11    Where international competitive bidding procedures are used:(a) domestic
manufacturers would be allocated a preference of 15% or the existing applicable
rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing
foreign suppliers; and (b) qualified domestic civil-works contractors would be
allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over the bid prices of competing foreign
contractors.
Disbursements
5.12    Disbursements (Annex 1, T-7) would be on the basis of: (a) 80% of expen-
ditures for civil works, locally procured furniture, equipment and textbooks,
professional services, and local expenditures for equipment and vehicles for
project administration; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
construction materials, furniture, equipment, textbooks, technical assistance,
evaluation, and pre-investment studies; and (c) 50% of local expenditures for
technical assistance and operating cost, including salaries for project adminis-
tration. Disbursements for project administration and any construction work
utilizing force-account methods would be made against certificates of expendi-
tures, documentation for which would not be submitted for review but which would
be retained by the Borrower and would be available for inspection by the Bank
Group during the course of project supervision. Based upon experience in previ-
ous education projects, the TSRP has satisfactory institutional capacity to use
the certificate of expenditures procedure.
5.13    Retroactive f-inancing is recommended for project related expenditures
incurred by the Government after the date of Board approval (para. 7.04).



- 35 -
Auditing
5.14    Annual auditing would be required for all expenditures financed under
this project, in particular for those expenditures reimbursed under certificates
of expenditures. Auditing would be performed by auditors acceptable to the Bank
Group, applying satisfactory auditing procedures. Audit reports would be sub-
mitted to the Bank Group within six months following the end of each of the
Borrower's fiscal years.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01    Benefits.  The proposed project would provide assistance to the Govern-
ment in the implementation of its educational policy of improving the quality
and efficiency of its primary-education subsector. It would improve equity in
educational opportunities by providing classrooms facilities and furniture at
schools where the need is greatest. The benefit of the project's primary-
classroom component, however, would not only be the provision of about 7,500
student places, but also the institutional-building aspects of a primary-
classroom building infrastructure which would assist the country to undertake
the construction of primary-school classrooms on a nation-wide basis and which
is also likely to attract other donors to the subsector.
6.02    The construction program is highly labor-intensive, and the project is
expected to generate considerable employment in the construction sector. The
local furniture industry, although limited in capacity, is also expected to
share in the manufacture and supply of school furniture.
6.03    In the textbook component as well, the project's major benefit would not
be the fact that all of Lesotho's primary-school pupils (about 235,000) and some
10,000 teachers would receive textbooks, teacher guides and in-service training,
but rather that a permanent textbook-supply infrastructure would be established
which would ensure the provision of textbooks for the foreseeable future and
should provide the bulk of funds needed to replenish the textbook supply, thus
putting a minimal additional burden on the Government's budget. Recent studies
conclude that an investment in textbooks has more impact (in terms of increased
learning) and a greater return, dollar for dollar, than any other type of educa-
tional investment, even including investments in teacher training. The com-
ponent should therefore make a substantial contribution not only to the produc-
tion of a better enlightened and more productive citizenry but also to further
education and specific skill training, which depend for their success on ade-
quately prepared entrants.
6.04    The vocational training components would benefit youths and unskilled
adults by preparing them for directly productive employment. The TVTC would in
particular assist in meeting manpower needs in a remote mountainous district
which is a priority development area of the Government.



- 36 -
6.05    Risks.  No major risks are foreseen.  However,in regard to the textbook
component, should the contributions to the revolving fund not be timely col-
lected, the new text:book supply system might not fully replenish the fund, thus
an additional burden would be placed on the MOE's budget. Close coordination of
the various agencies involved in the new system (the NCDC, the IMRC, the Book
Supply Unit, and the missions) will be necessary to ensure that the system func-
tions well from the outset and does not founder. To minimize the risk, the
timely establishment of appropriate administrative arrangements have been made a
condition of disbursement against the textbook component (paras. 3.11 and 7.03).
Also since this component has the full support of the Government, the risk is
further minimized. In addition, the recurrent-cost implications of the proposed
project are minimal.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    During negotiations, the Government submitted a satisfactory list of the
school sites for the primary classroom component (paras. 3.03 and 5.07).
7.02    During negot:iations, the Government also provided assurances that:
(a) The MOE would employ by not later than April 1, 1982 an adequate
number of qualified staff for the TVTC (para. 3.14);
(b) not later than January 31, 1982, the MOE would furnish to the
Bank Group for review, the curricula for the courses at the
TVTC anc the LOIC (paras. 3.16 and 3.19);
(c) terms of reference for evaluation programs and other studies
to be financed under evaluation/pre-investment studies would be
satisfactory to the Bank Group (para. 3.21);
(d) progress in monitoring, evaluating, and the development of
designs, etc. for the primary-classroom facilities, including
furniture and maintenance procedures, would be submitted to the
Bank Group on a semi-annual basis and would be subject to
consultation between the Bank Group and the Government in the
course of project supervision (para. 5.05); and
(e) an evaluation report on the proposed project would be submitted
to the Bank Group within five months after the Credit Closing
Date (para. 5.08).
7.03    As a condition of disbursement against the textbook component, the MOE
would, in a manner sal-isfactory to the Bank Group; (a) establish and staff the



- 37 -
Textbook Supply Unit; (b) establish a special account to be used exclusively for
the textbook replenishment; (c) establish the textbook fee policy; (d) redefine
the responsibilities and reorganize, accordingly, the IMRC and the NCDC; and (e)
establish the standardization policy for the textbooks in the three core sub-
jects (Sesotho, English and mathematics) (para. 3.11).
7.04    Retroactive financing is recommended for project related expenditures
incurred by the Government after the date of Board approval (para. 5.13).
7.05    Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 8.2 million to the Kingdom of Lesotho on standard
IDA terms.



-38 -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORSANE                                                                      1
APRIL B, 1981                                                                     Table   1
.  ....._ ......                                                               -Page   laof   2
I         O3 NP/      GNP66    :6 TOTALIE   OF PUBLIC 3          3        3          :PRI. :AV.PRC,   3                        SEC   I        a
I        CAPITA3  DEVOTOD:1POSLIC  3 EDUCATION    tLilrER- 3 PRI,  sCOMRPLE- 33TU- :0C44.TEACRIPROGRE3S-3  SEC. $STU-  SHIGAE8h
3 3AT  aTo0 EBS.:  EUP. IREICURRENT    rACY                IE6ROLL31106        3TENTS3BALARY I5310N BATE IENRDLL3DENT2SENROLL31
-    ~~~~~~    T~~_ m3RffRJ,l  7VTDFrIO1TO    hrI1mTTTRPW9?4TOJWW91  [01fRE        AT  IO 
a  Ot    PRICEBI ESP.    I  To           Tot       ICR UP  3 NET  3PRI.SCH.3TEACHI1 TO    P/ I TO SEC.  3 NET  :7EACpi- DROSS:
YTMDMLLI.3  (U5533 ONLY)   I  EIU. [8RI. SEC. HI.3ADULTDC3  CD)   SCYCLEMIIER    3CAPITA                        CZ)        C) IR            5 
3(13  33  CT)    3 C)    31(42   3           5)       3 162        (7)   3  (B)    3 O) 3(CR)    3 CC)              3CC2)   .(13) 3(14) 3
ADVANCED
401T791          74    7,50 5,6206        1.10    B.3E0   240   SCy  CRY    NA          NA        NIT       260       2.OD       99)        00)   019D    IN.8SY
CLUCK11          70  15.1       II17      7.1K   16.7      2S5   S9    23      NN       99       CUT        21        2.RK      COO        92      CR      22.TU
01M8AN  P9,7R   *14         0'NR          3.9    10.2FK.AN..               ..           90K      Coo        ,         .         I 0 0      94      221    C2.0R
'$61N             75 (11,16    450S        4.1E  25.7K    ROUP 370! 1100  NO?           NNO       ANT       25        2'.o  -   NNC        9NRY    TRIO    24.69Y
WE9THe RLANOI    78   C3.9  R.S9R         9.8F  22.4D    20    35    24,    NA          Nb       93         (N       2.0F        N9        AT      13,    12.30
.NR  ZEAtA ND    73    3.1  8,20Db        5.     ...       39    24    29      NA       AN       N9        Tb         6.         N          7      19      24.UD
NORWAY           76    4,    8043         7.2    14.4      54    24    CR      AN       NA        NA        1R        3.5        94K9      02      CI      CC.OD
SWEDEN           76   3,2  A,ISI          8.8    14.0      23    TI    1T      NA       AN        NN        06        . ..       N0T       353     15      30.0CC
t,B1.            75  36.0   1,7A0         7.1    C3.N      TA    aC    CA      RN       NN        ..,.     24        2,0      -...         RN      17      21.D00
D.9~~N.  7 21872  Th3'01  3.3   31780 ~~~~~..7   57fl78  3W    "150  -   '00  720F  ~~~~~~       NV        97' (...IVK     44I0D
EUROPIE
GREE    76    8.1  2,59)         2,8    10,4      17    2A    21      RAB      NA        R2T       SC      2.0          POE       AT      27      15.00
tEELANO          74    3.3G 2,S2oG       S.      13.9D    451  AIR   CAY   NA         CRAUT      9RA        35      .. .        NRA       bRoT    o9       (5.470
PORTUGAL         77     .7  1,155R        3.8    T5.0I    V)  321    51        71        Da0  6'b,-R         9 - T5  5 .-P    -" TN*      -35-   - 121      5. 00
15MANRA1         7 PR   32   1,24o        4.C     6.4      SN    I9    CS      NA       1010      ...      21       ...          NA       AN       22      10.00
at" IN           74  11.5; 2,RNOG         4.88   55,2A    494   2TT   153    948    iSx0         ...       35A        .    ...           78AY    IN       17.604
KERICA
- 1L;iER7          TV  1,5    ,280          7.3  _2D77.II - T4RW  ZbK_ 2tSi    TI        -9009    405K!-   37K      R~.DRK    SIZKr-Slwr-  37K  - S.TORX
81916            74    5.20      ROD0    7.26   56.01    471)  TSD   tOo   CIT          4401      YOR      OsY      TS.0A        4SA       CIIC    393      0.74y
8099A48         73    D.A      620       5.4    1N.0      4R    59    13       SI      RD        70        31        9.0        50        00      22       I.RD
308060T          7     11        3,A .1 OR8  07    8ZR    468   55'  2I8    05          TSR      45         ST       N.T        TT          ST     (6       R.R
CRIR.G76      77       :134      3.7    01.       35    43    20               ND 6      45        52      4.0          20         At)    24       0.9DCO
C.E.8.  74    1,3K    C'2RE  3.40  ~~~~~~17.00 568   CR8 ..            .7.           O  ...                         I           R      08        .233
CRAWD            75   Z.P       CEO       170                                  FST7R 9[  Z9SRY    3D       SIRE    15.0           0        2087   3-0       O.O110
EDNGOOCp         74    1,3F   !IDF        6.0    1R.3      40    32    21      50)    1353       63        AS        6.0        4W        SbX      22       3.40
ff94?            78  86,7       goo       S.i       .      SD  _35    TA       440      73       80        307       ...        42        AN       17'?     is,DD
ETHIDPIA         79 31.0        C30       2. 2    11.1... .....    15                   34       ...        59       ...        ...-               41
"SON8            7'8   0,K j,540F        5.00  ?O.AO    250    90   IID    ... 1DY               TIC       41NC      5.0         38A      310      TIC      0.29!
948814           76   .0.5      170       1.3    13.3      46    25      6     12      27        ND        335                            L 5  ... 9  S O
685w             7 TO    9?    RIE        ...    3977!    43FlrW2-   2036              613!      60        3-7Y     ,..         14        35KV    INC!   1.090
GUINEA           76 4.7         lARK     4.568 ;;:         30    SCS1          , 30   03O        64        45       12.0F        NA         13X     ON       4.00
IVO)RY COAST    76    7,0      6IT       6.      23.       33    AN    13       NA     50        86        43        7.0        47        1715    TB        1.64Y
AEMIYA           79  15.3       38D       3,4    18.0      71    i5    Ca      45      92        74        40        6.0        41        IN       23       1.0
4130TH0  --   19    13           342       4W1Pr2   4D      N    7-9-Z0 --     32        6&-r         -      W       0         15          0       23       0.90
LIBERIA    77   ~~~1,7    43         .     02.9      203    CS    26     50      SI0X        ,       54        4.0        TN        OAR      16
80946A1C.1       77   I.D       230       4.2    24.0      53   23    IN       50     N90         3        44        6.0        33        C4       23       1.70
MALAWI           79    5.9      217KS.   P.284   9*N       40    2     23       3 25     9                 82        504        CIA        4       20       0.50
MALI             75     .7KF     FS    0.2    SD,UK    AR    F7  (BK    ODE             TOTE      ...      43K      4.8K        50K        NT      2t
MAURITAN1A       PC    C.3F    b'OOK      4.10   ?D.0    ........              CIVA     17RP     ...  __22A          ..          ..          o     24A8       ;
RU2qITIS       16    0.91.   630        4.       [440                 6       3 t N -                 - 4           W             T      4         2 -fR
me'BOCCO         TA   13.0      SOD       N.0   15.2       398   48AR  13R   ON        680X      3         SN        6.00       AT        TOo      21       4.00
816CR            77   4.9       Il'D      2.30   12.0 2    52    43      5      a       I7       50        39       I00.0         S        2       24       ..
NIGERIA          74  75,0F    3.30K      4.10Y 24.2DY  231   CAY  420    ,..           ARTY      ...       34DY      ...         ...      CORP    T0CY    0.48Y
WANRDA          73   4 IF    l!OK         .34C  28.0      ...  .        .. 23          52        ...       SC        ...        ...        2      13       0.23C0
RIEREAL          07   5.0       4CC       5.0    23.0      46    34    OR    CO        32      -,.         49       30.0        20        10       2C       3.5
a,1FRRA LEONE   73    3.0K    OPT?        3.4    23.4      SI    3N    50      153     340       45        32      _4.0KE       66        CUR      21       0.5380
38844I4          78    4,0      065       S.A    1.0.      55    10    21      50      44       ...        30        4.0        40         5       15       I.RR
8UO AN           7N   355      T2Oo       4.       9       498N   36    16     20       54       74        33        3.0        33        14       24        1.04
14421L64D        73    0:5      560       6.1$.  12.0:    57    33   23        64      920       oN        37        4.04       66        325      20        2.000
TANZANI3         783L 17.        300     6.26   is. 8      43    I9    10      NAG     96        37        53        3.0          N        4       OTO      T.is
8890             77   2.4       SOT      1.5    26.5       30    TA    TI      IA      74        40        RB        6.0        52         -       44      2.02
1U09131A         7   b.-  tilT0         7.0    19,0       40    SN    CA      62     (DO        AT        59        6.0        '50       SR      '30       b.00
UGANDA           7s  11.6       2SIT      3.200 I 11700   3ArY 40KY 2TEY  234          530Y      ...       34EY      ...         144        NACY  214       0.56Y
UPPCR 45L06    77   58          CIAe      1.0    03.9      35    16    50       SC      13        05       Ri       24.          IN        2       05       1.
TAIPE            Te  25,6       140       6.2    22.0      49    28    25      is      8bA       44        403       2.0~       41        I30      27       3.000
168816l          so    5- ,     542       0.4    71.1      48    25   20       44       SOX      RD        40       '7.0        19         17      22       0.50
e61N7RAL AMERICA 894 THE CARIBBEANi
14MAR48   09    0.0   2,~~~~7Ao'  6.86   19.1       36    3N    IC      Nb      99        97        24        4.0        97        PR       I9
SA48*A4009C      76    0 2    ,62D        8.     02.1      430   33    IN      9N     (0o0       99        21        S.T        99        NAx.    17
COSA    lCa7  2a               1648'        6.    33.0'.   373  27  350        NOD     93X       77        32        ..          77       39.      35      35.00
CURA             78    N     100          8.0    11.0.        .     .      .N          93        98        00        0.71        93       65   15C         05.00
DOMINICBN 818.7        0,0      NT        30     139       4     24     2      RI      N          C7       54        3.0)       63        14       24       7.OD
EL SALVADOR    77   4.         0570        .0    27.2      60     3   27       62       330      32        SN        2.2        AC        25       21       0.000C
D0A!EMAL A       73   620    70D          1.     16.0      SR    23    C4      47      64        ON        SR        3.0        68          8      25       4D0,
8A1T1            76    4.7      2000      0.0    R8U       63    23    11      208     25F       15        56U       S.T        62          4      ...       D.7
MD008          75    2,90    4-0)3      4.0    1880       60    CR0   190    NO       73        3   35              'S 30      be        11       17      4.00
JABUADC          76   0,0r 1, 07)        98    16.2         7    33   20      aBA      93        52        39        4.5        NA        614     25       7.588
850100           T 75  99      OS '05     .10 I 0t2.000   SYN  264   [27T   7h       1123v    33          06        3,T        K         35s-Y   056       8.97KV
90(ARA308        70    2 .5     66UD      3 .)    14.0    02)1E    ' 130         9005   41       2 4       4 4        2.TE       93E        453    37       7.000
P,6AL4"A6        78    0.8H 1,022         5.8    ...       409   334   15      BOA      97       82  32       H O    3.0        384H      49       341-    20 .0 0
78091033AD S0. 77    C.C   2,130S         4.8    04.1         aR    3 2    20  95      93        AC9       30        5.0        49        6 2      24        ..
39078 44E1)ICA
8ARENTORAl       73 a76,7   1 ,9 I10      4.a    01.4      434   510   CAR    93       8N        00        17        0.0        Al7       SC        B     23.DO 
BOLIVIA          76   5.8       3(5K      S.D    17.5FK........    40                   30N      09D       24        5K          ...        40     o8S      ..
GBAZIL           78 336,33 1,SC0         2.8    04         2    20K   224    643       RAG.       .        271Y      ...        ..        260     0510    6.008
CRLE           75   30.3   1,50           OR61   10.584   236   100  S0Y   ...    I109X4        .         350       ..         ..       440       .      16.554
CR409818         74  2.5        650        . 38? 21.20D    AQ   020Y iCY    73        10500      20        33Y       4.          0        364      04       6.67Y
IC04008          73    7.30    7OC,G      3.1D  i7.TC      I.        .    .. . bN    12206       ...       SIC       ...        ...      ISoXV    (AC      ..
au4ANA           74    0,3K    SloE       5.3N  14,70    47    33    04    8334         904       39        33       6.0         CR       620      24       1.00
31843043         79    S:ORG   85(        14    14.2       40    17y  20Y   804         32.       301      OR         1.6,       75       20X    31          .0
PERU         73   36,01    34141I    4.2)D? 2170    AD,  O   205   I      72      I110       38        390       3.0        7)        ASR      2300   374.430
0141I2A4         71     ,1   ,714         2.1    (5.3      46    34    20      NA       930(      ...       T4        ...        85         .      10       ';C
VENEZUI&A        73  10.30 2,84(0         4.4    19.9      loa 230  350    77A          AC                  3   3    2.4         ...       5 33    ...    12.61



-39 -
ANNEX 1
COMPl:ARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS (CONTD)
*KsctsR:z Z=:5sss:2:2::ts::s.=                                                   Table  1
Page 2 of 2
APRIL 0, 1981
-- -- -- - -- -- -- - --  --  -- -  --a-   -3     ---I--       --  --  -- -  ---a      a - a        a--  -- -a  -                    * -a-           a       a--- -- - -- -- -- -
I       I 9NP/ a % gNP   :5TOTAL:X   OF PUBLIC aI                                    :PRI. aAv.PRI.                           :  SEC a        a
I       ICAPITAt DEVOTEbaPUBLIC t EDUCATION    ILITER- I PRI. SCO'MPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PkOGRLSS-a  SEC, $STU- :HIGHLRI
a      AT   a To EDU.:   EXP. a RECURRENT    :ACY            :ENROLLITIr)N       aDENTSaSALARY IN:108 RATE tENROLL&DENTSIENROLLI
a       Zp MARKVETS (PUBLIC IDEVOTEOa9EXP ALLUCATEDa  ,RATE aRATIO aRATE FOR:PLR   a RELATION aFkOM PRI. ZRATIO IPER   IRATIU I
aOP    PRICESa FOP,        TO    a       TOt        0  OF a NET   :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: Tn GNP/ :TO SEC.                NET   aTEACHa- GROSS,
YP:MILLS.: (USS): (NLY)           EDU. aPRy. SEC. HI.:ADULTS)s (8    :CYCLE1%):ER                 CAPITA                         : I    x  ER    a  8    a
a (13  a   (2) a  (3)    a(4)   a             (5)       a  6        (7)   a(9)    : (9) :(10)    a (111               :M?)   :(13) :014  3 
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFSHANISTAN    77M 1A*3         IBOG      1,8    11.6      47    19    15      12       290       69        37        S.uG        62        ex     17       1.00
SAN4GLADESH      73  60.4G       9oG      1.2    20.2      44y  22Y  21Y    23D         568       ...       480       ...        ...       23oD    28       ..
INDIA            75 6Z0.4G    1404,    2.bVT  .......... 29B                            65XY      ...       43A       *...       ...       2QoY    20AY    2.3uEv
INDONESIA        78 1 36. 0     3690      2. 4    9.1 I    ZAG   32G  15G    62         92        48        32       3, 0       70         19      17       2.00
IRAN             73  33.bG 2,0604         3.3    82.6      So~   188   829    So        77        746       32       5*VBR       806      24       32       4.32C9
IRAG             75   1 1 SG 1, 399G      6.7C   16. 3D0   .....           ..   AC      9319      ...      22         ...        ...      35XY    261       8.47Y
JORIDAN          77    2, 3     997       4.5K    7.jK    259  5OR    3R    70          970       81        32        2. 0       91       68       22      10.60D
KOREA            78  37. 0   1, 242       2.8A   17.5      35    29    36      9 3     1921       94        49        2. 9       9 1       60      45      18. 00
LEBANON          72    3. 2G 1,o70G       3.5S   18.0      39    80    1 0     60       86        65        149       2, 0       6 3       26U     25      23. 00
MIALAYSIA        76   12.6      860       6.7    26.0      82    34    15      600      95        93        32,       3.7        78        48      28       3.00
NEPAL            8 0   1 3.3    1 1 H     2. 4    8.8      27    1 8    38     19F      77        30        368       2. 36      ...      I16      28K      ..
OMAN             7 2    0 . F a,30OF      1.714   3. 8     96      -   -       20       24X       99        27F       7. 0       ...       9 .41i   9       ..
PAK13TAN         79  78. 0      278o      a.8      7. 2    39    26    27      24       560       509       48        2. OF      ...       20o     1 7      6.OOF
PAPUA N.G.       75    2. BG    4500      5.6    16. 1     38    36b   24      32       577       73P       3 1     1 1.0        9o        128?T   24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES    74  43.2G    4201          2.5    1 4.9     7 3    1 5    I?    AO8L    1044X      ...       34      15. 0        ...       468     ...    21 .00
SINGAPORE        74    2. 3G  2, 589G     2. 79    9.29    39Y  399   17Y    724    10989         72A       319y      . ..       99A       4489Y   24       7.685
SYRIA            78    7.945    900)      4 .4    10 .3    39    25    26      5 8      891       80        35       2.40       68        45x      23      12 .60
THAILAND         77  R44.1      4 10      4. UV  20.0      55.  30    i5       S4F      83        30        35       5.01LI      70       28       25       3. 00
TURKEY           73  40.9G 1,o1oG         5. 609 20.6c9    .           .... ...         859       ...       340       ...        ...      24v      2709    S.83Y
VEMiEN           73    5,41    300G       0.5     4.0      459   21P  23P    10         150       I8        36       5.0         75         28     19       0.0589
YEMEN P.0.R.  76    I. ?        280       6.6      ...     57    28      8     20       890       48        30       5.0        94        21y      24       0.1 0
SUMMARY FO_R 'DEV'ELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES3                      99     93       91    90    88      92     100         78       99           74      82        98       96        86
RANGEE                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.5-   (3.8-   (20. (8-   (3-    (5-  (13-  (13-   (16-       (1.5-    (8-        (.4-    (8-        (.01.
12.9 i36.0)    96 372)  S0)   99)              133X)    99 3      69 )      25.0 3100)           97   3  453    41.03
SUARTILES:UPPER aS.8    21.2                             49    35    22     87       98        91        42          6        91        48       25     11.0
MEDI AN:                   4.?1   16.0      42    26    18      57       88        65        34          4        68       24       22       3.4
LOWER                      3. 0    12. 4    34    21    13      25       56        33       29           2        41        11      18       1.0
-MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8s1971                               N=GDP....
Q UESTIONABLE                       CxI972                        PRINCLUDING FOREIGN AID                      CULUMNS:I AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TImE STUDENTS 0*1973                               Q=CENTRAL GUVT. ONLY                                            ORIN lRD MISSIONS
*6COMeINED WITH PRIMARY              Eml974                       R:MINISTRY (IF EDUCATION  (MOE) ONLY                   3 TO) 14 1880 MISSIONS
4**  LNDER REVIEW                       FcI975                        S2MUE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                       AND/OR UNESCO
G=1976                       TREXCLUDING CENTRAL GnVT.                                        STATISTICAL
Hs1977                       UOPUALIC ONLY                                                    YEARBUOK
Kx1978                       V:INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
LmI979                       XSINCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
M:1980                       Y:UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATTVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT HETA4EEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HLIWFVER,0N THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIOTNAL CO)MPARISON sHOULD BE AFPNROACHED) ITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ASOVE TARLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY By THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES: THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATAk FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS H4VE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIOINS 680 WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE RANK IS VYRKING TO IMPROVE THFM
PRDGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL wnkK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE F(ILLOWING UUAL-IFICATIONS SHOULU BE BYIkNE IN
MINDa
I1)"EDUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL ED0CATrON AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL:
(2j'PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECUNDARY
LEVEL VEGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
03)'LITERACY RAYESI(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED ?ROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCI)UNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATTONS ANU IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE" HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY:
(4)'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATInN'(COLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRFNT EXPENDITURHES DEVOTED TO EDUCATIOJN BY
9uBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES:
('5l'ENROLLMENT VATIOS'(COLS 7, 12 AND 1A) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PFRCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
SN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A W.IDE MARGIN UF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POJPULATION AND ENROLLMENtS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUIDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



IESOTHO
lHTRn EDt]ATTtN ?P2O.TEC'
GNP, cOVLRWT RECURRENT F MITUE4S, AND RECURRENT EXPH*I1U1   Ol9 1008210,  993//-19(9/80, AND PROJECTIO35 '10 In/i6
ACTUAL FI11RES (except as indicrted)                                                            ,                         7'roleotionc-/
'                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(current prices))                                                                          o'cetoc6Rt 1900/t I pr. e     
Government of .lsotho
Fiscal Year               1969/70      1970/71      1971/72      1972/73      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76     1976/77       1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83       1981/04      1984/85      1965/86
2. GNP                                                     68.0(D       71. A        // 7/.9     73651!        82,.h       125.6        160.6        225.7        280,9        326.1        365.33/      423.71'       436.5        449.6        463..          .9          491.2
I. Ce-tral C,-cC.t Crr.-ne R-non-                           ll.6         11.4         i2.4         12.9        2.0          F,L 4    ,4  247,02 3c.'               oj.u         72.0                     i3'           101.3         90             1 i3.9                   91,5
- ac perenonage of I                                 13/          15           16            16          25            23           16           13           06           23           31           2            .23           21           20)          19           18
ITII.  Clexic   GovetAFnnt Recsr.r..   1xpex81roeZ           11.4         12.3         12.4         13.9         15.39        186          32.6         4o.8         43.L 6.9                 71.6        103.91'       303.1        1.93.        19            1031.3       133.9
- no percentAge of I                                 16           17           16           17            19           14           16           i            iN4          17           18           24           23           23            22           21           21
- as percentage of II                                98          108          1tO          108           71,          63          112          130           85            73           62          100          103          105           108         I11           114
IV.  MIT3DEC Re--rrent Exp-ndi-tues                       2,?44         2.081        2.228        26786        3.842        4.395        6.795        7.277       io4,36       10.724       13.275       21.333k/    22.l86         23.073       23.9XI       24. )56      25.y54
-A  perentageof 1                                     3             2           2             3            4            3            3            3            3            3            3            5            5             5            5            5             5
-an per-e--age of II                                 19           18           18           22           18           15           23           25           22            14           12           21           22           23            25           27           e
- as  percentage of TTT                              20           17           18           20           24           24           21           19           26            19          11/           21           21           22            'i           24           25
V.  MOE R-eourreet Ependiture-  on                                                                                                                                                  5/                         4/
Prinary-L-vel Ed-nntio- 2|                          1.294        1.235        1.134        1.410        1.755        2.163        3.486        3.279        5.209        4l. i53      5.389        03.9'/6-      9.446       10.139       10.605       11.090       11.819
-  n percentage of ITV                               58           59           51           51           46           49           51          145           50           41           4I            42           43           44           1.7           45           46
prte,ary-L-el Esrollan.ta                          180,903      183,395      171,454      175,355      187,459      218,038      221,932      222,017      226,219      228,523      235,6o4       237,000I2   242,200       247,300      252,502       25, 000      263,300
Unit Cost  (Rand/Melnti )                              7            7                         8             9           10           16           15           23           19           23           38           39            41          4N            43           45
VT   MOE Recorrent Enpendi t-ren on Geceral-
Secondary Education  /                             0.279         O.268        0.329        0.357        0.779        o.854        1.268        1.341        1.7Z4        1 .9011/     2.561        4.1491'       4.18t        4.962        5.479        5. 7'/2      6.254
- aa per-netage of IV                                12           13           15           13           20           19           09           19           17           18            19           20           21           22           23            24           24
General - o1oxd-ry E-roiln-lat                       5,011        6,028        7,816       11,936       13,412       14,908       15.611       16,726        17,433      17,732        21,406       22,489/0    23,560        23,6h0O       24,860       26, Llu      2-,1110
Unit Coat (Randl/Mo.ti)                               56           44           42           30           58            57           81           B0          103          107          120          165          198          209           220          22/          228
VII.  MOE     oerreot Ezpe-ditpren for
Higher Ed-coti-n V/                                 0,375        0,305        o.426        o.598        0.772        0.913        1.340        1,687        2.124        1.9432/      2./il        4.i58Y        4.158        4.029        3.922        3.833         3./65
- an per-e-erge of IV                                17           15           19           21           20           21           20           23           20           13            20           20           19           17            16           15           14
Higher E-oollFeots (Roan  ampae- only)               366          402          368          342          456          536           502         671           727          322          I,i4.5       1,090/        1,130        I, S,o       1,230        1,280        1,330
Ulit Coat (Rtnd/Mtloti)                              972          759          1,158        1,748        1,693        1,703         2,669       2,514        2,B94        2,364         2,58'        3,99R/       i,;,8         3,414        i.l18        2,99         2,831
Vl  le Other Mlh'EDUC Hocorront Expenditures                0.296         0.273        0.339        0,421        2.536        0.465        0.701        0.970        1.379        2,427-/      2.614        3,504/        3.1i9-       3.'343       3.990        4.0o3         4.i0Jb
- aa peroentage at IV                                13           13           15           13           14          11             12          13           13           23            20           1"           17           17            17           lh          1i
Hypothe..a for pro3ections am  a-aoai-ed it  parc. 2.42 of the Appraisal Report.
/  TI ailliona xf RRldM.Iaoti.
E istie-ted figoree.
Budget enttxate.
5/  Provi.ion.l fig-re (not yet vetified).
luood-es AdMiic-etratiot, HGteter'e Offtce, I-epectorate ArohiveZ, Sp-rta
aSd Coltoro, Yooth Affaira, Teaching SGrico  Uxit, Lerotholi Techningl
I-titnte, Teacher Training, L-eotho Diatanoo Teaching Center,
Soxr-oa   IHiaietry of Fin..o- (bodget data)
taitiatry of Rd-atio- (enriltens data) I
Hank ataff H annOute.
Febronry 1981



THITED EDUCATI)31 PROJECT
108728 AJE) COSTS 0F TIfE TF7TOSOKC C
(Cost Os Mlecti)
E1=o0%i .2908
Sbj-t               So-s Pee    Book Cost                                   p-   ~p                                             i~   .l1 P- 111tRp-~-
--1982 Thoba Books (TOT.) District   ipl                         96 -----   -3 Entire CtosYe less T.T - ----    --------196"~ TBT. 0oly---------                              ------1985 Eossio Coo-ty
ntoileso    Clases Units   Cos    Total toste  EstoImst  tis-s-    U-.t                    Ctos    Tot1 Cost  Is..oilsest  Classes   Usito            Cost   Toco1 Co-o  to-1-sco    Cl losse          olts      Coa    Cot-
Ssadord 1                            2-.00                          SIll         101                                       6280B         1154                                          5202        184                                         69500        1310
Besreho                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.90             SIll  7,500                     -5100 (TT)              59230  88,849                    17660                   22872   34,308       66,396                               15560    99,705
Workbook lcooaooooilol                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~.50                    SIll  2,500    11,181          57700                    628OO  31,400      120_2,45                              64100   32.050            520                              70806   35_403       135_199
Tscher  (golds ood clss aids)                5.09                                         "'CUD    SEp         SOB                                  154   1,924         5,770                              "7667o       52l                                            1310     6.930         6,550
EStaodard 2                          3. 1                           3000          60                                       45900          e6I                                          3121         63                                         94)40         B's8
S-otho                                                 1.50                               3000  4,500                     -3060                   41878  65,811                    +12984                  16105   24,158                                             41400   '1,100
Osgiash                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.50                 301 04,511                     42960                   41870  65,817                      16105                   610O5   24,158                                           47400   71,100
Motheaselce                             1.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~0 30000  4,500                                                        41818  65,811                                             16105   24,158                                            47400   11,101
Wokbook {c--ossble)                                    .50                               3000  1,511       15.101                                41900  22.500       220,400                              464011)   23 200    ,,3,,,'1                               50583   25_261       213P00
Teac he                                      6,11                                         ""60  "360           360                                  860   5,160         5,140                                  63       316          376                                 948    9,608         5,688
asI- r-  3                           3.23                           2600          50                                       39100          730                                          1705         04                                         40800          8ii
Se..osho                                               1.50                               2600  3.900                     -2562                   36244  55,866                    +11188                  13093   20.840                                             40800   61,200
Eogllah                                                1,50                               2600  3,900                     36448                   31244  59,866                      13893                 13893    00.840                                            40000   61,200
dath-ti-lc                                             3.50                               0600  3,900                                             39244  55,866                                            13893    20.840                                            40800    61 200       183_600
Workbook  loss--bslel                                   .59                               2600  1,300       13,006                                38103  15,552       1873,,148                            430000   00 001        8,520,,36                              816   21,180         5 ,7 12
Teach_                                       6.00                                         ""'SE  """5     00 ''"70 30   4,380                                           4,380                                  54      '324          304
Oc-d-rd 4                            3.0                            2000          40                                       30200          570                                          2081         40                                        32333           640
Besotho                         1.25                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2000  2,520  -2040         28212  36,500                     + 8236                  108,70    1 3,:996                                         32000   40,000
EsgilsI                         1.75                               ~~~~~~~~2000  3,300             28660                    2827 2  48,300                    10877102                        1491300                                                    5,0
M.thenoio                                             2.00                                2000  4,000        9,000                                29212  58,544    143-434                                 16807    21,754        5,297,$3                             32000   64,000       156 800
T.ac-t7.00                                                                                "'0 ""0            ""20510   3,930                                            3,990                                  42       294          294                                 640    4,480         4,480
coa~do-d 5                           6,70                           1200          55                                       206400         050                                          1700         35                                        21010           916
-,     450
eSo..eho                                              1.00                                1700  1,780                     -1234                   21186  23,186                    4'6909860                          870200                                                     5,D
EonEILh                                               1.65                                1000  2,805                     22666                   25 186  39,291                    8'676                    067     84,367                                            25800   425,802
esth-otic-                                            2.25                                 1700  3,825       8,330                                658    810          I91                                     670    14,326       2248                                  5800   6412,57029
T-oh-t                                        7.00                                           35    245       __245                                  450   3,150         3,150                                  35        245          245                                516                  3 ,6 12
Lsssd-rd 6                           5.30                           1200          25                                       19600          320                                          1260         25                                        20200           402
So..oth                                                1.00                               1200  1,200                     -1224                   lt143  18,140                       5 153 5                6185     6,281                                            20100   00,100
Engl ish                                              1.70                                1200  1,100                     18376                   18743  32,880                       6280                   6785   11,814                                             20100   35,175
Mathematics                              2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.30                1200  2,760       6,060183  43.110                                          64 653                                6 78 5     _15606    34,265                               20100   46,230       101,150
Teac.her                                     7.00                                         """9''7             '772                                   37B    2,590       2.590                                  25        0117         125                                402    2.814          2 , 814
is-dard 7                            5.00                           1800          20                                       18400          345                                          1040         20                                        18500           370
S-sth                                                 I00                                 1008   7,880                    -1020                   10686  17,686                       52638                  6280     6,280                                            18500   28.5000
EsgI2 b                                                 0.00                               1080  2,808                    13380                    17 6886  35,372                    6390                   6280   12,560                                             18900   37,008
MT-hematcs0                                           253200   2140                                             1430                              1068    244.1 5      97273                               6288    iS 700    514 540                                   18500   16,050       101,750
Eeschet  '.00                             20     140         l4E                                  345    2 415       2 415                                  20        140          140                                370      2,590        2,590~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_Z  10  4037  259  259
lab-toedl PspIl Ecito/cot                                                                 50100              67,690                               717057               982,766                             361202                 406,138                              082349              1,071,614
ITes.h-t lolts/c..ot                                                              20               2,000                                 4479                07,955                                343                   2,076                                5002                 31.446
Tocal                                            ~~~~~~         ~~~~     ~~~~~~           ~ ~~~~~~       ~~16500  330  58128  66,690  204190  4429  721536  1,010,221             343      361545                409.014  250100            9002      080251              1,1031200
 ''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COST SUOMAOY
lcok/loatertcj,                                                     Otoe'oae/Bs'aoopcrt/looOljOc                                              3' toO Coot                                  .rcao load  ,I .5   )Poo,OoO 1_~  T.tl C."  G,-dT.t~
1,  tetPM1 ok                             7,520,266                                             3.  Storsg                                                                T  BcO5cO   2,035,6' 7                       00.4   J0 '- ~.(3 Mio:oo-
less dioocot (35%)                  663,693                                                     lookers  (M 50 a5,000)  M 250,000                                  1,' uO$     2,6  .,524                      otl,ec                                   0.19
(1,910,606 omits)              8 1,643,33(4                                              4.  T-lpott                            20,100                                                                        Fr-c.crae                                 o
20   Cost Te-hor Coldns                     6p, 9rt                                             5.  Hmadli-c
15,7418          0 .03 Pes coop                                                                                                Greta Total                        073  370  se.,',,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G-    Tt~  l~$3.6  '1,&
Ieos dilocooct )25%)                 15,44_                                                         .3 __     py75__-
(9,644 omits)                       47,233                                                    Teta1 )3o4o5)                 M 345,700
Total Bookt/Mit-rile  (1c2)  M 1,690,607
Bote1   1, 1963 aod 1965 fig-ie  for TT mad satire  --try ic 19941 isoode 30% repl-itho-et of hooks plao.. eokiook  for gratec 1-3.  1965  -rpl-iebmet will cry alo1oo8cror    o I                                                Iloco,,' -cor-
2. T-co-emt-riala  -r  cot ropte-ishd d-itg  projet opote,
3. look prio-  s-n h-d e-  pobliehed price  lists.  Ntibe  of oloor-o-   ar  obtsI-ed bp diidisgeso                             bYetoo  50 )-toiocats  -oraeOls-o).w
4P Prject rep  ieihe   -ncY te  peer,   Later rep'ecish-tas  eeted to be evey three. peers
0, blc  c    ill osr  olth pbklithr.-   T-saiprt  -A. to -laooo    - di~tlib,ti-oe tc T -ad eBti-e ...atry pl-cpcicmcs
6F...esll, a--odtrg to  -ed, be edjoited s-.se1y by the Gere-act.



LESOTHO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY
Maloti (Million)                 US$ (Million)              Percentage of
Category                       Local    Foreign    Total          Local    Foreign   Total         base Cost
1. Civil Works
Academic/Communal                       0.84       1.28       2.12          1.09      1.65      2.74           29%
Boarding                                0.09       0.13      0.22           0.12      0.17      0.29            3%
Staff Housing                           0.11       0.15      0.26           0.13      0.20      0.33            3%
Sub-total (1)                       1.04       1.56      2.60           1.34     2.02       3.36           35%
2.  Furniture                               0.05       0.12      0.17           0.06      0.15      0.21            2%
3.  Equipment                               0.02       0.11      0.13           0.03      0.14      0.17            2%
4.  Textbooks                               U.zo       1.84       2.04          0.25      2.38       2.63          28%
5.  Technical Assistance                    0.17       0.67      0.84           0.22      0.87      1.09           11%
6,  Professional Services (A/E)             0.16       0.11      0.27           0.21      0.14      0.35            4%
7.  Evaluation and Pre-Investment
Studies                                 0.12       0.18      0.30           0.16      0.23      0.39            4%
8.  Project Administration                   0.73      0.31      1.04           0.94      0.40      1.34           14%
Total Base Cost (1-7)
(September 1981)                    2.49       4.90      7.39           3.21     6.33       9.54          100%
9. Contingencies
a.  Physical (5%)                        0.14      0.26      0.40           0.18      0.3A      0.52
b.  Price increase (30%)                 0.76      1.60      2.36           0.98      2.06      3.04
Total Contingencies             0.90       1.86      2.76           1.16     2.40       3.56                      M
Total Project Cost (1-9)            3.39       6.76     10.15           4.37      8.73     13.10                    X X
of which taxes                      0.39        0        0.39           0.50      0         0.50
9



8W1801  Or IrCC.IZI 800 ISTDMATIT POSICT CO9T
5[uden1   3oardin8   NeS   Ared New                              -iv   Works                ,Irtue 57                                                                                         oa
-               rdaT=                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Add fin 8 e Cnrc-oSie D Cun7NrdgNous rrlCN-  rt No 3rOa fyt i Tenc7P eon1
Prtmar7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~L   .CCAC7 880'., 1,532                                               96   p~.  198                          93d.                      2 CISC          3 515 0.1 334
--r 9L I0 1                        6      6                                         ,18             t             2                                      3            2                                                    O4747                                                                                                                        537
813139 0.830 .  Jo.                                      71.,A2dA6                     ___                          dfl13d                                                             AdC
Add    FCC    Addl                                                I.      k                 CO9C          ,95   0270 C7'0                                                                                                                                                                                                3
". do O o   USS          ,077,00                                                           33B          2,423 AC3S                 293 3SA    1356             C            15          25          218                        2,6             6,566                                                                                 3.516    4. 5  1 6I538
10Z                             '                      2          S               5                                              O
9   in llalots                                                                                                    ~~~~~ ~ ~                                                                  ~ ~~~           ~ ~~~~~                      ~         ~~~~                    ~       ~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~260  3     102  377  _2      0  2
Sub-coeal  (8 + 9)                                                                             2,960                                                 174         137           2,153           5,309             945             297              300               1,042            7,793   10,059~~~~~~~ll  31  ....~.  "I300".l  7,93  .o,
Slob..    Illcrse            117    CCC        CCC              5            1.901           CCC                         195         AdS          Odd           CA            CC          CA                                                        AlA                                                                                  060    1.261
Il Ir,1.to  9Z6  54   42   665           1,5             -341 615                                                                      9C 8 2,57 2
7,t,1  (9 t 10)                                                                               1 086                                                  62           49             769           1.962            546               97               90                771             2.761    3,563~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 ~ 49161i,6~  l ~119o  -  ,76  316
i7l                                            lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  3903C
lC   US4 39 2 56 33 1.557  A67    503              130
9 E C *e tu                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~                                                                                 ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~60  70 M0  M0  lo% -0        0                  30Z                         7
F E c   *n USS                                                                                 2 355                                                 206         1n35          3,234           6,500          1,230              137              502                 509                      6 723~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i6  iM  3  I.
S.~~~~~~ _Ad_ d713!CCCCC0CI
1,0CC   C.dAC     A.AIT~~~~~~~~~~~



LESOTHO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Effective Date                                                                                                  Project Completion Date                            Credit ClossnpA Date
(September 30, 1981) 4                                                                                                       (March 31, i986)                       .4(September  130, 1986)
Year of Implementation                 I                        II                      II                          IV         Tv
Calendar Year -                      1982                     1983                      1984                      1985                      1986
Quarter---------------      1    2    3    4          1    2    3    4          1    2    3    4          1    2    3    4           1    2    3    4
1.  Classrooms for Primary Schools                  00033 +-++  XXX  XXX      XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX        XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX        XXX  xxx
2. Vocational Schools
a.  Thaba Tseka                                                 000       ODO  +++  XXX  XXX        XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX        XXX  XXX
b. L.0CC.                                                  OOD  000       XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX        XXX  XXX  XXX
3.  Furniture                                                  PPP  PPP       PPP  +++  +..  DDD        DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD        DDD  DDD  DDD
4.  Equipment                                        PPP  PPP  PPP  PPP       ++-+  +++  +++  DDD       DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD        DDD  DDD
5.  Textbooks                                       PPP  PPP  +++  DDD        DOD  DDD  DDD  ODD        DDD  DOD  ODD  ODD        DUD  DUD  DOD  DDD
6.  Technical Assistance                            AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA        AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA        AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA        AAA  AAA AAA  AAA
Legend:   0  -  Design
D  -  DiStribution and Installation
+  -  Tender
A  -  Activity
X  -  Construction
-  Maintenance
P - Tender Documentation Preparation
4



~ 45 -                  ANNEX 1
Table 7
LESOTHO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ 000')
Accumulated           Undisbursed
FY        Quarter         Disbursements        Disbursements             Balance
1982          1 1/                0                     0                  10,000
2                 100                  100                   9,900
3                 100                  200                   9,800
1983          4                 300                   500                   9,500
5                 500                1,000                   9,000
6                 700                1,700                   8,300
7              2,900                 4,600                   5,400
1984           8                 600                5,200                    4,800
9                800                 6,000                   4,000
10                 600                6,600                   3,400
11                 500                7,100                   2,900
1985         12                  500                7,600                   2,400
13                 400                8,000                   2,000
14                 500                8,500                   1,500
15                 400                8,900                   1,100
1986          16                 300                9,200                     800
17                 300                9,500                     500
1Rq                200                9,700                     300
19                 200                9,900                     100
1987          20                 100               10,000 2/                   0
1/ From date of Credit Effectiveness.
2/ Equivalent to SDR 8.2 million.



LESOTHO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, SPORTS AND CULTURE
ORGANIZATION CHART - 1980
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Sot andaen 
Noinl   NU. L             LTI.            N.T T.C           ProfessionalAd,rw,t   dI
Commission~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D,s
Secretary ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~               Scetr 
Geea            Stf              Stf               Stf              Edc*o                 StIff            Staff
planning                       ~~~~~schools          Secre.tory        Person..ef       Account                                                 National          SeofoNational
sectin ||Sction                                                  T.S.U                     Offi-er  O  ffi                                                 Library          Acd emy
Unit  Planners       Facilities
statistics                                                                                                                                                                                                         Stf
| Unit             lnrs            Fclte 
1/ There are four Senior Education Officers who supeIise the Education Officers
and Assistant Edanation Officers in the Distrints
2 Thore ere subject spenielises in English, Sesotho, mathematics. snienne, development studies,
health/physical edu,,ation, end practical sublecSs.
Ehgli.h                                                                               D' ect r                                       3/ Tennis and Football.
Med-am            S.0.             S.E.O            S.E.O.        Enaminatio-s           of                                         A
Prparato..ry      Cirnuitl/         eonay            Prmr               UnhIt         CrnoflamASitn  ~-i.  fie
School                                                 icul..                                      E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 0  Edc.tun.in Officer
LOD.T.C. Lesotho Distane Teohing Center
L.T.I.    Lerotholi Technical Institute
A. E.O.                                                                                                          NUL.   Nation-l UnNirsity of Lesotho
D,stri.t    ~ ~ ~ ~    ~          ~    StffNT TT.C.Nationa Teacher Training Colleyn
S,E.OE    SenIor Education Officer
TSR P Treining for |  SelfR.N-R      Project
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
, Wodi  .-nk - 22281



LESOTHO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID, 1979
w              _j~~~                                                                                                                                               .
a(   J  u  O                                                                                                                                                          .u,uo ag 
<   (3   (9      o        0 z
(S  '6  '6_.-  - u       g                              MALE                                              FEMALE                                                <        Li
E     17  22  12                                                                            13 6                                                                                       11
R     16  21  12                                                                           114  101                                                                                    12
A     1 5  20  12       560      0.9%                                                      127107                                                                    08%      488      12
R     14  19  12                                                                           159  130                                                                                    12
_ 1 3  18  13                                                                             147   144                                                                                    13
E      12  17 13                                                                          78411,176                                                                                    13
C      11  16  14                                                                     1 1 23      1,468                                                                               13                            4
N     10  15 14        9,624    13.6%                                                2,190            3,064                                                        21.8%   14,855      14
A  o  9   14  15                                                                     2,286             3,964                                                                           14
R      8   13  15                                                                  3,241               j  5,183                                                                         14
7   12  15                                                             6.040                                     12,993                                                         15
P     6   11  16                                                             6,634                                         14,106                                                      15
I     5   10 16                                                          8,837                                                 16,750                                                  1
M     4    9  17      96,444   82.43%                             11,536                                                          18,636                          122%  139,160        16
A
R      3   8 17                                           16,037                                                                        21,737                                         17
2    7 18                                    19,327                                                                                  23,262                                     17
1    6  18                      28,033                                                                                                                31,676                       18
30,000            20,000             10,000               0               10,000             20,000            30,000
I        I                 I         I                 I                  I                 . I
Note: 1. Enrollments for grades 1 to 7 include overage students.
2. Grades 8 through 13 include enrollments in general-secondary courses,
teacher-training courses, and vocational and technical courses.
'There are also about 376 students studying abroad, mainly at the post-graduate level.
Source: Lesotho Annual Statistical Abstract 1979-World Bank Staff                                                                                                      World Bank-22328



LESOTHO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION SYSTEM, 1980
Theoretical Age 6        7       8      9       10      11      12              12     14       15             16      17      18              18      19       20         20      21           22      23
.,  A -                                         -     1i                     1-      1-                                                                                  I            I     I
Grade            1       2      3       4       5       6       7               8       9       10             11      12       1 3            13      14      15          15       16          17      18
PRIMARY                               POST PRIMARY (VOCATIONAL)                   TECHNICAL                             POST SFCONDARY
JUNIOR SECONDARY                  SENIOR SECONDARY                                HIGHER
Post Graduate
Degree                 Ab-roa
Educellon       dell Med
{E}+H)_   ~~~~~~~Arse. em                                   tGYeneac'.1y                1mnt      { 
Ac.dem,e --     
Entry ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      uo Poiodat to Labor Fore
PTC        PrimaryTeacherCt eols                                                             eaer T        g   P T C                                                6 Cnrtriat
CDSC   - Cambridge Goerseas Schsroi Cenriticare0,e                                                    Trahe,   T.C
TCamnlnq  A.P f.C Training                                      {
Aqr,,-lt-r
I  Referred to in Lesotho as Standards at the         r er T       C                     u
PrS mary T-vel and as Forms at the Secondary                                      C-11 cat.,
21 3o,nt Program (LAC and NUL)                                                                                                                      D,  Oploma
S         t r1 Yeor nte-EhtrM ra n t       ,                   Horne Ecnn                       Trades                        1
*   Select on p   hlP/Wrk   EttPerierit tt  _  } 4 ;    _        {_                           Aqr 11-,Icl-tue D,plo,,
Entry P    pt to Lhano Foe                              vo-ttaa C!                  Aqetulte L  L A C
JC    -    Ju,-,o Cert,ficate                                                                                               P.Jy tGe:h,  .,,, Th,,,r-
PTC        Pr-mary Teacher Crrnficate
APTC       Advanced Pr-mary Tea,,her C.mtficate                Aq,,c.lturc                  Cmeia   
COS    G- Cebrsege Overseas School CM rtag im at rtt
CTI        Commr-inis   E ru nng Intctt-e ofesI                                                                                   ,MtS
LAC        Lesotho Ag,icultural College                        Yr,,uth Center               HealIth Pract,tal                   Busimess
I      IPA  Lestho Ionsti tot of Pubic Adrd-sto,w-        Fr    Tra,n,ng Centers               Nu-sng                         M-rPemeAt
STC        Secondary Teacher C-rt,fi,Mae                                                                                      I 
IEMS       1-to.t.tt F.1r, M-lAl Stud, JI
LOIC       l esotho Opportunities industriat zati.o Cent!,    Lr IC                           ODM
ODNi    Ove.rsea.s Devel.preent -Management IntttlM-ar:gemnnt
S.-rce  M,n,st,y of Ed-ctmnn of Lesotho               L       {JO 
ar,dWorl,d Bank Staff                                 M'd-iferv                     L . l.P.A                           He,lth      Nu,s,rg
Nur ser A,r                  SecreOarllMaeagemeei
World Bank - 22297



corrugated galv. iron roofing.
vlIK              --                   _                                                cut timber or pole rafters.
I --Walls to be of
4  -                                                            '1   available materials
| _'such as adobe
or sundried bricks, or
= .... .ef -ment blocks, or stone.
ELEVATIOw      1:100                                         SECTION      1:100
8.65        -4  >    --        .N
1      2        3                             1       2
three classrooms
3                        '4
3
three classrooms                      six classrooms
PLAN           1:100                                         TYPICAL SITE LAYOUT           1:500
SAYPLE DESIGN OF PRIMARY SCHOOL CLASSROOM



LESOTHO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Unit Area and Unit Cost Comparison
Median Values of
TVTC                  LOIC               Similar Bank-Wide Projects
(OIf8l Pi.4rics        (QI$81 Prices                   (78-80) 11
(Mid-1980 prices)
Academic and Communal Facilities
Construction per student place                m2  8.9              m2 7.0                        m2 15.0
Building cost per m2 of gross area           US$    358           US$   359                     US$    218
Construction cost per student place               3,802                3,028                         3,323
Furniture cost per student place                    211                  156                           189
Equipment cost per student place                  1,056                  313                         1,059
Total cost per student place           US$  5,069            US$ 3,497                    US$  4,571
Boarding Facilities
Construction area per boarding place          m2  5.1                    -                       m2  6.3
Building cost per m2 of gross area           US$    491                  _                      US$    254
Construction cost per boarding place              3,020                  _                           2,334
Furniture cost per boarding place                   155                  -                             278
Total costper boarding place           US$  3,174                                         US$  2,628
Staff Housing
Area per staff housing unit                   m2     70                  -                     m2 100
Building cost per m2 of gross area           US$    708                  _                    US$      289
Total cost per staff house             US$ 48,986  2/              -                     US$  31,267
1/ Source: CPS, October 1980 (Unit Area and Unit Cost Estimates in Education Projects);
Non-formal Vocational Training Institutions.
2/ Six staff houses are included in proposed project.



7T11  EEDTArITON i'iOJ  T
flY IlRdlCATOPS rORt PhOIEIIllrP I.FIlfNTt'2l0l
COMPONENT                    OBRJECTTVES                   ShIEMiT SII_UAT 1004                           lff'7  TAAntT                          API'POACK AOth V       DU 1TS Pr3ROGRESS 0EECS hEAT OfIS
Primary els-roolls   1. To  -aniot the Goeceorrent         1. Over 1,100 l, .c.asroo-                   psitie                     Y..er                 Method                 Year            Pesitian                      Yeer
orgooiee the infens.tr-ot-          have a  oi/teoo:
Pilot the building of the xv        ratio of 83:1. Lvo-to                1.  Build about 150              11-198        1. Survey of site  sd
e_ooiocal olaosrooau sod to         sappihg excreite                     olacsro,o  for 1,500                           col1yit  of .e.a;lc local
pare a stratepty to satisfy ti      (SEpt. lJ.30) reve-led trot          student pl ue  u,ile                           material.                          1981
c_untry e clssroom  needs.          Leeptho has  -re of t!.              establishi7g lvfra-                           2. Prepare strategy for
2.  To lapeve physical fecil        -rot  cusroar sit   -ollor           str-cture                                     country'. totalAsrooo
ties particularLy Is the  re        int Afri-n.                                                                        needs.                              1983
ansi.                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2., Dopply f ..ait.r         3. Coostrution of ciaas-
3. Ta upply foroittre for           1%   8  or lie                       for 55,000 puptle.                            3 or i-oon  oulo6--
the 150 eluserooee pbs              primnry pupils                                                                     tore, miseluria or diceo
rurnitor  r-r nbout 55,000          bre itr rdsq-ately                                                                  lbatr nethode.                  1931-1985
froues  foe aot         0d.                                                                                            4. Qoarterly -ovntruotion
i. Toiocrevoeolrevrsrher of                                                                                            eoperrisio-  reporo arc
iudeote vcpltivg Poll preicry                                                                                          preped.                          1981-1985
aeheol eyole.
Provision of ?riary I,  To eupply all prImary             1. loly sbout 30% of the              I. The MOB updtee  yllabus.  Jbo. 1981    1. Data on ouebe sod                After 3ye
Teotbeoke.             stodeoto with textbook is  the    eudeoto have books.                    2. Tie MOE est*blishs  the                    on lIfe of bouhs.               (1985) od 6
cor  su-bjoLs ef Cesotho,           2. Bo.ke ar  of poor                 lohk Supply UlIL.               Mn,y  1981    2. Flee data 00 diotci-        Y-e  (1983)
English PDd -athe,baties.           quality.                              3. The hOE e*tebllshes a        Sept. 1981   botio  nod repeodieuso.
2.  To supply all the prixery       3. Pee boui  reaeh the               volloy tc preeppbe hooks         sod sae- 3. Give skill te-ti Ic
teeeherr rith urdse  sd Io-         .ra  children.                       in eore eubjace.                 tion of      eore eubjeots prior to
`ero1ee tralorn;                    4. fe  teaohers' guIdes                                              baoks by      book di.tlabu.ic:. tnd
3. To i=pr-e stodeot   hileve-   eaiot.                                                                   Ja. 1982   t1 repeat teetn  yeerly            Stsrting ii
=ent by one of bcoo, thee           5. Texohers oedd to be               4. S6tting-_p ietereet                         for eeve. year-. )19t1- lSii-19d2
iaproviog tle quality of blai       traioed on hev th  use               be.ri,g r-veirle  fiolda                       1989).
edo..tien.                          boks effectively.                    to goso-stom   tt
replhi sh n-t  t bcoks.         Sept. 1981
5  Recrie a-d Setatlen          Teodese
of books.                       19132
6. Supply ot book. fe           Pilot dia-
1,910,60B sthdat.               trtbution
Supply of geida ior             in 19 o2nly
9,844 te-nh .                   Thas aeete
Supply _ovill 7  atile          Dietrivt.
for 5,002 clas.                 Natl.c.I dis-
terb,utiee te
e11 echoo-  in
1983.
7. I.Plstio bek pesg
t-.                             1982
Lvesimatte.           1. Aesiat lE te streogth                   . 1 ME h.a  eetabLi.hhd        1. EvIlu-tio  oit                             1. Precaratio- of proer s       1983
its pl-osieg  nd etatistios              positions sd traivieg           preparee report n                             ad tests.
unit te enable it t as-ese               of evaluator is uodsr-          qualIty vf educa.tis                          2. Anslyis of teats sd          Tevuly
disg-ooti.leLy the qol1ity sod           er,y                             with re-oooocdotieas.          J9BI          rceoeoedatens.
a.trIwerOta    cf iue edutlon            2. tior  bt it s  oou uit-      2. br reruLta fsr
session                                   -oy asitread                   primar,y sod JC are             1981- 196-
2. AssIt MOE to ispro-e                  begies evaluation surk.         e.ptarioed.
adxilistratieo of pri.ary
od JC e_i-nnnttivn,
1985
Stodles.              L.  Pcs-isteetasnI Sheds to         i. MOD reeoroUf tt. ,  fOvder f alts  i. Stdels ace to he                           To be deits..d.
asit the Geecenet to             ihe poooibility to u-dnrtkb           id-etifiet Prtsc Is
prepare fotor  projens.              eded atdi snd Dmsoalyai-.           De_ber 1982.
2. Oter fuoda to he used for
PrPjrct reisted siudle.
TeCho -i1             1.  T  rectrult teeheiesl           1. Shortage of skilled hosoteh       1. Arvhitects, Eogooe-ro,        (a) 19I3      See-uncool perrors-.c.
Ansietance.           poraoo el cr censultsats to         mWicecuer.                           S-veyoro, Qosotity              (b) 191-85  p-aies...
evtabli o  the iofrontreeture ture-yoro, sod Supervinore
to build the needed prieary                                              -e  ooedcd for (a) odeubt
va-er._..                                                                uvvy  -oeY In 1981 sod (b)
2. To reoe-it a speoi.llst                                               f-c irplvrurniation.
for Scok Supp4y Dolt.              2, Dool specisliot dos  oot ealot  S1. feorh-k ep-oiast
3. The reer. iacot of proo-re-  eaIt In Lese..thS.                      r-poihln  for -rgaLisatios
=ent ape-illi-o oer noltent                                              end aisiriutrotion of beek
DuP-oV Unit.                    196l_1948
3. Pvr the Se-nnI IDA Eduvi-         3. Procurtenet  pscailiat
ti-n ProJnce, e South Afrieao        needsd.                         1902
-evon-tlht Is heiring TMR.



- 52-                         ANNEX 5
LESOTHO
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.      Reports and Studies Related to the Project
A.1 Project Preparation Documents submitted by the
Government, September 1980.
A.2 Report on Primary School Mapping, MOE, September 1980.
A.3 Primary School Facilities Survey, S. Miller-Williams,
July 1980.
A.4 Primary Textbooks in Lesotho, M. S. Carroll, (World Bank
consultant), October 1980.
A.5 Status Report on Curriculum Development Activities, MOE,
August 1980.
B.      Reports and Studies Related to Education and Manpower
B.1 Lesotho Third Five Year Development Plan, 1980/81 to 1985/86,
B.2 Options for a Dependent Economy--Development, Employment, and
Equity Problems in Lesotho, International Labor Office, 1979.
C.      Selected Working Papers
C.1 Educational, Architectural, and Financial Working Papers.



V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OB14  
I-                                                    -~~~~~~~ -~~
I   ~ I  



