                    Document of
                 The World Bank


                                               Report No: 56477 v1




              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                       ON A

         PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                       OF
SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT PROJECT
                  CREDIT 4088-MN
                   JUNE 28, 2005


                        TO

                   MONGOLIA

                   April 30, 2010
         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




 Regional Vice President:        James W. Adams
        Country Director:        Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager / Director:       Tunc Tahsin Uyanik
       Task Team Leader:         Xiaofeng Hua



                             2
         Error! Reference source not found. -- SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR
                        DEVELOPMEN CREDIT PROJECT
                       Error! Reference source not found.
                                 CREDIT4088-MN

                                   Restructuring Paper


1.     The closing date for Error! Reference source not found., Second SECOND
Private SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CREDIT Development Credit Project (PSDCII),
Credi 4088-MN, Error! Reference source not found. will be extended from April 30,
2010 until April 30, 2011.

2.     The Project implementation was rated Satisfactory up to February 2009. Project
implementation was significantly slowed down since then due to the financial crisis
Mongolia suffered in late 2008, and the continuous system distress. Excluding the
external factors, overall project implementation in the last 12 months can be considered
as Marginally Satisfactory. As of early April, 2010, 79 percent of the credit proceeds
were disbursed.

3.      Since late 2009 there have been signs of economic recovery and renewed capital
inflow. The conditions of the external markets for Mongolia have also been improved.
The improved environment would enable the achievement of the Project's Development
Objectives. The Government is to implement a system-wide bank restructuring within
the next a few months, which would further enhance the achievability of the project
objectives.

4.      The proposed extension is necessary to allow the project entities to complete a
number of planned activities critical to the achievement of the project objectives. The
completion of the special assessments of systemic and related banks undertaken at the
request of the BOM under the Project is critical to the success of a sector-wide bank
restructuring strategy currently under consideration by the GoM; hence to the longer-term
financial stability. The unused funding for TA under the Project would allow the PFIs to
strengthen their system security and reliability, which is a lesson learned from the two
failed banks. The TA funding would also support well-planned staff training. Due to the
need to address the crisis-like situation, the Government has not finalized the action plan
for completing all the planned activities during the extended implementation period, but
has discussed with the Bank's task team on the contents of the action plan. The
Government has reiterated its commitment to complete the project implementation by the
end of the extended closing date.

5.     This will be the first extension of the project's closing date.




                                              3
