Report No. 926-GLJ                                                                                u    r
Appraisal of a
Secon(d Education Project
Guaternala
January 30, 1976
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the Irnternational Bank for Reconstruction and Developmnent
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Quetzal (Q) = 1 U.S. dollar
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Square meter (m2)   2   10.76 sq. feet
Square kilometer (km )   0.38 sq. mi.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/1
BASIC DATA
Arla                                                               108,900 E2
PLulatLon (1973)                                                   5.2 million
Urban                                                         1.8 million
Rural                                                         3.4 million
Population annual rate of growth (1964-1973)                       2.1%
G1NP per capita (1973)                                             US$ 520
Real annual growth of GDP (1963-1973)                              5.8%
Literacy rate (1973)                                               47%
Enrollment rates (1973)
Primary education   (ages  7-12)                              64%
Secondary education (ages 13-18)                              8%
Higher education    (ages 19-24)                              1%
Public recurrent education expenditures
As a percentage of total government expenditures (1975) 21.5%
As a percentage of GDP (1975)                                1.9%
;  also AnnFex 1.
/2
,.ource:  World Bank Atlas
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



9,



GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..........................                 i - v
I.    INTRODUCTION ...................................                     1
II.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING ...........................                    2
Population and the Economy .......................                   2
Human Resources Implications .....................                   3
III.    EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPME.NT ..........................                   3
General ..........................................                   3
Educational Administration  .......................                  4
Primary Education ................................                   4
Secondary Education ..............................                   5
Teacher Training .................,                                  6
Higher Education .................................                   6
Agricultural Education ...........................                   7
Non-Formal Education .............................                   7
Financial Implications  ...........................                  8
IV.    THE PROJECT  ......................................                  8
Project Strategy and Content  .....................                  8
ELements of the Project ..........................                  10
Cost of the Project  ..............................                 14
Recurrent Costs of Project Schools  ....             ...........    15
V. IMTLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT .16
Project Administration  ...........................                 16
Project Implementation Schedule  ....             ..............    16
Professional and Technical Services  ....             ..........    16
Sites  .      ...........................................           17
Procurement  ........         ..............................        17
Maintenance ........           ..............................       17
Disbursements  ........          ............................       18
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........                  18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Guatemala in April and August 1975. In April the mission members were
Messrs. A Cespedes (general educator, consultant), J.P. Croix (architect),
1. Woll-f (education planner) and K. Blakey (economist, consultant). In
August: Messrs. Cespedes, Croix, Wolff and T. Ramos Saco (agricultural
educator, UNESCO).



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.       Comparative Education Indicators
2.       Enrollments in Primary and Secondary Education - 1973, 1980, 1985
3.       Teacher Requirements - 1974, 1980, 1985
4.       Government Education Expenditure - 1975, 1979
5.       Teacher Training Program
6.       Technical Assistance Program
7.       Summary of Costs
8.       Contingency Allowances
9.       Project Implementation Schedule
10.       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
I.   Formal Educational System of Guatemala
II.   Ministry of Education, Guatemala 1975
III.   Guatemala, Full-Time Enrollment and Population Pyramid
MAP



GUATEMEALA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUNNARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the Bank's second education project in
Guatemala, for which a loan of US$14.5 million is proposed. The main pur-
pose of the project would be to assist the government in developing and ex-
panding pre-vocational education at the secondary level, in accordance with
the aims of the first education project, and to complement government efforts
in non-formal and primary education which are underway with assistance from
other bilateral and multilateral institutions.
ii.       The first education project, begun in 1968, provided a loan of US$6.3
million for construction, furnishing, and equipping of 14 new secondary schools,
a secondary teacher training institution at San Carlos University (EFPEM), and
expansion of facilities at the Agricultural Technical Institute (ITA). The
project is now complete and all schools are open. The project was designed
to help develop and expand pre-vocational education at the secondary level, to
provide qualified teachers in these areas, and to improve and expand the supply
of agricultural technicians. However, full implementation of these goals,
especially in training of practical subjects teachers and in implementation of
a pre-vocational curriculum at the upper secondary level, was not achieved.
Difficulties in teacher training were caused by a lack of coordination between
the government and the autonomous university and by the fact that technical
assistance provided by UNESCO did not cover practical subjects, as originally
planned. Difficulties in curriculum reform were caused by insufficient coopera-
tion between the project unit (located in the Ministry of Communications and
Public Works) and the Ministry of Education and lack of a permanent curriculum
development unit. The government is anxious to correct these deficiencies.
It has imprcved lower secondary school curriculum and has set up committees
to develop the pre-vocational curriculum at the upper secondary level. It has
also set up a curriculum department in the Ministry of Education and has im-
proved coordination between the project unit and other government agencies.
iii.      Guatemala's economy has grown rapidly over the last ten vears at a
rate of 5.8% per year, and per capita income now stands at USS520. Over the
long-term Guatemala has good economic prospects for agriculture, mining,
tourism, and manufacturing. liowever, the country has extremely sharp eco-
nomic and social divisions between large and small landholders, urban and
rural areas, Indian and non-Indians, and Guatemala City and the rest of
the country.  The major national challenges for the future will be to channel
resources into programs which both accelerate economic growth and improve
the distribution of the benefits of economic growth. In terms of human re-
sources the main needs are to provide basic education to the rural population
to enable them to improve their standard of living, to train the development
workers who will implement government plans, and to expand and improve the
quality of middle-level manpower.



- ii -
iv.       The educational system itself is poorly articulated with the
country's human resources needs, and, like the country itself, is subject
to large regional and ethnic inequalities of opportunity. Children who
drop out of primary school (about 26% finish primary school) get little
economic or social benefit from their schooling. Secondary education is
still highly academic and those in upper secondary schools are likely to be
trained as primary school teachers when there is already an oversupply of
these teachers. While 90% of primary school teachers are qualified, over 70%
of secondary school teachers have only primary school teaching certificates.
In addition, educational administration is weak because of low salaries and
incomplete professional training.
v.        The government is now placing a major priority on educational
development. In non-formal education the government has proposed rapid ex-
pansion of existing institutions as well as creation of new training pro-
grams which correspond roughly to grades 1-4, 5-9, 10-12, and higher in
the formal system, the first of which should reach 275,000 persons by 1979.
In primary education the government plans rapid expansion of enrollments and
improvement of retention rates in rural primary schools.
vi.       At the secondary level the government plans to restrict enrollment
growth while initiating programs to implement a new pre-vocational curriculum,
to expand and improve teacher training (especially for teachers of practical
subjects), to strengthen quality control at the ministerial level, and to
study physical and human resources and priority needs. In agricultural
education the government plans to improve and expand all levels of training,
and to create two experimental agricultural training schools which would pre-
pare lower mniddle-level technicians to perform direct functions in agricultural
development by employment in government service and other production or assist-
ance activities in rural areas.
vii.      While central government support of education has been low, the
government has recently increased significantly its investment in education,
and the 1975-79 Education Plan proposes ambitious new programs. The goals of
the plan are highly relevant but difficult to achieve because of Guatemala's
limited number of adequately trained persons. Because of its needs, Guatemala
has attracted large scale international assistance, in non-formal education
from UNDP, ]:DB, and USAID, and in primary education from USAID.
viii.     The proposed project would enable the secondary system to provide
students with a more practically oriented education and thus provide them
with skills for further on-the-job training or further studies more relevant
to national development iieeds. In addition, two experimental agricultural
training schools would prepare technicians needed to perform direct functions
in agricultural development. iMost project schools would function as community
training centers available for non-formal training programs, and both first
and second project schools would be assisted through teacher and administrator
training programs and technical assistance to implement new curricula.



- iii -
ix.       Specifically, the proposed project would consist of:
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(1) 11 new lower secondary schools (grades 7-9) and
extensions to improve lower secondary instruction
in three other shools;
(2) 2 new combined upper and lower secondary schools
(grades 7-12) and extensions to improve instruction
in one combined school;
(3) 2 new common facilities centers; and
(4) 2 new agricultural training schools.
(b) provision of additional equipment and teaching materials to the
Agricultural Technical Institute and to seven schools assisted
under the first Bank project;
(c) extensive in-service and pre-service training programs for the
teaching staff (about 600 teachers) and administrative staff
(about 100 administrators and supervisors) connected with first
and second project schools;
(d) related technical assistance comprising 11 man-years of specialist
services in teacher training and education planning and 45
man-years of fellowships for local staff; and
(e) studies to map existing educational resources, to determine future
priority investment needs in education, and to establish a tracer
system to follow-up project school graduates.
x.        In lower secondary education the project would provide about 5,600
new places in 11 new schools and 640 new places for workshops and science
laboratories in three existing schools, all of which would be located out-
side Guatemala City. At full capacity (two shifts) these schools would
reach over 10,000 students with a new pre-vocational curriculum which would
emphasize introductions to industrial, commercial, agricultural and home
economics subjects. Nine of these schools (as well as one of the combined
schools described below) would also serve as centers for non-formal education
and training programs which would serve the local community.
xi.       The project would provide about 1,800 new places for two new
combined upper and lower secondary schools and 240 new places for expansion
of a combined school. At the upper secondary level two of these schools would
offer practical subjects, in lieu of the traditional upper secondary teacher
training course, and one school would be designed to train home economics,
art, and physical education teachers for lower secondary schools.



- iv -
xii.      The project would provide 1,120 new places to serve up to 5,600
students on a multiple shift basis in two common facilities centers to be
located in Guatemala City. The main purpose of the centers would be to
provide science laboratories and workshops for practical subjects to
enable nearby lower secondary schools to implement the new pre-vocational
curriculum. The centers would also provide facilities for organized non-
formal education and training to out-of-school youth and adults. The
development of skills to manage these centers would enable the government
to organize similar centers in other large towns and cities.
xiii.     Two new experimental agricultural training schools, to be located
in the priority western highlands and northern regions of the country, would
provide places and boarding facilities for a total of 360 students, principally
rural Indian youths with primary level education, in a new three year training
course, and for 30 farmers and others who would take short term courses. The
three year course for students would have an output of 120 bilingual technicians
per year who would work in government service, on farms, in farmer youth clubs,
and in the proposed non-formal education and training activities. The schools
would also be used for a variety of non-formal courses depending on need.
xiv.      A small amount of additional equipment and teaching materials would
enable seven first project schools to implement a new pre-vocational curricu-
lum at the upper secondary level and would cover a shortfall in equipment
provided to the Agricultural Technical Institute under the first project.
xv.       Training programs for about 600 teachers and 100 administrators
would be designed to ensure proper staffing of project schools, to ensure
that project school equipment would be properly used and maintained, and
to help develop a permanent institutional capacity in Guatemala for teacher
training. The main emphasis would be on preparing adequate teachers of
industrial arts, commerce, home economics, and agriculture and on improving
the managerial capacities of project school directors, supervisors, and non-
formal education coordinators.
xvi.      The purpose of the technical assistance provided by the project,
equal to 11 man-years of specialist services and about 45 man-years of
fellowships, would be to ensure efficient execution of the project and to
improve the planning and administration of the formal and non-formal education
system, with emphasis on secondary education. About 6-1/2 man-years of special-
ist services would be provided in teacher training and 4-1/2 man-years in
educational management, educational materials and equipment, and non-formal
education. About 31 man-years of fellowships would be provided to improve
teacher training, 10 man-years to improve educational management, planning,
and curriculum development, and 4 man-years to improve school administration.
xvii.     The total project cost would be about US$22.1 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$11.0 million, or about 50% of the total cost.
The proposed loan of US$14.5 million would be equivalent to about 65% of total
cost and cover the foreign exchange component and 32% of local costs. Prices
as of November 30, 1975, were used to estimate the base costs, to which a
physical contingency allowance of about 9% and a price contingency allowance
of 24% have been added.



-v -
xviii.    The Project Unit responsible for implementing the first education
project (located in the Ministry of Public Works and Communications) would
continue to implement physical aspects of the proposed second project. In
addition, the Ministry of Education has established a curriculum department,
one of whose responsibilities is to supervise educational aspects of the
project, and the Ministry of Agriculture would designate a representative
to oversee implementation of the agricultural training schools.
xix.      Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of compe-
titive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Bank, but interested foreign firms would not be precluded
from bidding. Contracts for procurement of furniture and equipment would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped in
packages of at least US$25,000 would be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding in accordance with the Borrower's regular procurement procedure,
which are satisfactory to the Bank; this would not, in aggregate, exceed
US$450,000 equivalent, or 10% of the total cost of furniture and equipment.
xx.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over a four-year period.  A
small amount of up to US$300,000 would be disbursed retroactively to cover
expenditures incurred after July 1, 1975 for professional services, technical
assistance, and project administration required to begin timely implementation
of the projact.
xxi.      The project constitutes a suitable basis for financing of a Bank
loan of US$14.5 million, with a repaynment period of 30 years, including a
10-year grace period.






GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises a second education project in Guatemala, for
which a Bank loan of US$14.5 million is proposed. The first project, begun
in 1968, provided US$6.3 million for construction, furnishing, and equipping
of 14 new secondary schools, a secondary teacher training institution at San
Carlos University (EFPEM), and expansion of facilities at the Agricultural
Technical Institute (ITA). The project is now complete and all schools are
open. The project was designed to help develop and expand pre-vocational
education at both the lower and upper secondary level, to provide qualified
teachers in these areas, and to improve and expand the supply of agricultural
technicians. However, full implementation of these goals was not achieved.
The teacher training institute now operates below designed capacity and pro-
duces science teachers but no practical subjects teachers as originally planned.
The new schools are operating at the lower secondary level with poorly trained
practical subjects teachers and have not introduced pre-vocational education
at the upper secondary level. The difficulties in teacher trainiing were caused
by a lack of coordination between the government and the autonomous university
and by the fact that technical assistance provided by tNESCO did not cover
practical subjects, as originally planned. Difficulties in curriculum reform
were caused by insufficient cooperation between the project unit (located in
the Ministry of Communications and Public Works) and the Ministry of Education
and lack of a permanent curriculum development unit. The government is anxious
to correct these deficiencies. It has improved lower secondary school curri-
culum and has set up committees to develop the pre-vocational curriculum at
the upper secondary level. It has set up a curriculum department in the
Ministry of Education and has improved coordination between the project unit
and other government agencies.
1.02      The proposed project is designed to assist the government in imple-
menting more fully the objectives supported by the first project, especially
through programs of teacher training and technical assistance, and to com-
plement government efforts in non-formal and primary education which are
underway with assistance from other bilateral and multilateral institutions.
The development of the project began with a UNESCO Project Identification
Mission of July 1972. This project had already been partly prepared in early
1973 and was scheduled for consideration in FY 74 when in the fall of 1973
the government decided to withdraw the project from the Bank and to submit
it for consideration to the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The
withdrawal was related to a conflict which had arisen at that time between
the Bank and Guatemala over a bid award for a proposed power project and
to the more favorable financial conditions IDB was offering Guatemala. Thus,
the Bank delayed further work until February/March 1975, when a Bank mission
discussed with the government possible contents of a project suitable for
financing and provided assistance in preparing a project. The project was
appraised in April 1975 by a Bank mission composed of Messrs. A. Cespedes



(educator, consultant), J. P. Croix (architect), L. Wolff (education planner)
and K. Blakey (economist, consultant). In August 1975 Messrs. Cespedes,
Wolff, Croix and T. Ramos Saco (agricultural educator, Unesco) visited
Guatemala to appraise additional project components proposed by the government.
II. SOCIO-ECONOMIC SETTING
Population and the Economy
2.01      Guatemala's population in 1973 was 5.2 million, the largest popula-
tion of the five Central American countries. Sixty-six percent of the popu-
lation was in rural areas, 45% was under 15 years of age, and 43% was classi-
fied as Indian. The population growth rate has been decreasing and is
estimated at 2.1% per annum from 1964 to 1973.
2.02      Guatemala's economy has grown rapidly over the last ten years at a
rate of 5.8% per year, and per capita income now stands at US$520. But the
country has extremely sharp economic and social divisions. Two-thirds of the
population lives at an annual income of US$75 or lower. The top 10% of land-
owners owns 77% of the land while the lowest 10% owns less than one-half of
one percent. Ethnic Indians, who make up 75% of the rural population, engage
in subsistence agriculture in the central highlands and have the highest
rates of illiteracy and malnutrition and the lowest income of any group in
the country. Other major inequities exist between urban and rural areas
and between the capital, Guatemala City (population 700,000), and the rest
of the country.
2.03      Over the long term Guatemala has good economic prospects.  The
varied climate and rich soils allow the cultivation of almost any type of
agricultural product. Tourism and manufacturing recently have grown rapidly,
and mining is showing great potential. Thus the major national challenges
for the future will be to channel resources into programs which both accelerate
economic growth and improve distribution of the benefits of economic growth,
and to strengthen the institutions and agencies required for this purpose.
2.04      The administration of 1970-74 began to create a basic infrastructure
of development oriented institutions and resources. In mid-1975 the govern-
ment completed a national development plan as well as specific plans for
agriculture and education. The main objectives of the National Plan are to
continue economic growth, to establish greater self-sufficiency in basic foods
and materials, and to distribute income more equitably. In agriculture the
main aims are to expand production and reserves of basic grains, to increase
exports, and to improve the life of the small farmer. In manufacturing the
aim is to increase industrial output and exports through labor intensive
industries, and in services the aim is to expand health, education and
tourism. The area of greatest priority is the central highlands, where 29%
of the population lives and where income is lowest.



-3-
Human Resources Implications
2.05      The development plan requires large investments in middle level
manpower, especially to provide the development workers who will implement
government plans in agricultural extension, cooperatives, and other programs
to improve the life of small farmers, as well as in health and education.
In addition, the emphasis on expanded manufacturing, tourism and commercial
agriculture will require more vocationally oriented output from secondary
institutions, as well as continued expansion of short term skill training.
2.06      This investment will be difficult because of Guatemala's present low
stock of qualified human resources. In agriculture more than two-thirds of
the work force is illiterate, and in 1973 public agricultural agencies were
able to assist only 25,000 farmers out of an agricultural labor force of about
880,000. In manufacturing about one-third of the labor force was illiterate
and more than one-half had only a primary education, while in 1973 the public
non-formal training institute (INTECAP) reached only 5,000 out of a total
industrial labor force of more than 500,000. Thus although government plans
emphasize expansion and improvement of both formal and non-formal education
and training, the availability of adequate administrative, management and
technical personnel is expected to be at the same time a major obstacle to
plan implementation.
III. EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
General
3.01      The Guatemalan education system comprises four levels:  pre-primary,
primary, secondary and higher, with the Ministry of Education responsible for
all education except higher education and certain specialized schools (Chart
I). Private institutions account for about one-sixth of primary school
enrollment, one-half of secondary school enrollment and one-sixth of higher
education enrollment. Various types of non-formal education and training
are provided by the Ministries of Education, Agriculture, Health and other
public institutions.
3.02      The system is poorly articulated with the country's human resources
needs. Children who drop out of primary school (about 26% finish primary
school) get little economic or social benefit from their schooling. Overall
secondary education is still highly academic and those in upper secondary
schools are likely to be trained as primary school teachers where there is
already an oversupply of these teachers. Distribution of enrollments (Annex
2) is extremely unequal between Guatemala City and the interior, between
urban and rural areas, and between Indian and non-Indian populations.



- 4 -
Educational Administration
3.03      Educational administration (Chart II) is highly centralized and weak;
incomplete professional training of staff and lack of coordination among
education institutions are the main reasons. The government now proposes to
reorganize the Ministry of Education to improve and streamline management
and to improve non-formal education. A major innovation would be the creation
of a secretary general's office to plan and manage the education system. A
Department of Curriculum Development, which has already been established,
will plan qualitative aspects of education, including curriculum reform and
teacher training. In addition an inter-Ministerial non-formal education
committee is now functioning. However, improved management will also require
upgrading the quality of personnel, improving relations with San Carlos
University, and improving planning within the Ministry of Education. The
proposed project is designed to assist in training personnel for the new
Curriculum Department. In addition UNESCO will provide some assistance for
planning and management in the Ministry of Education and the National Plan-
ning Council.
3.04      In 1975 the National Planning Council prepared a "1975-1979 Develop-
ment Plan for Education, Science and Culture  (described below).  The main
goals of this plan are relevant to socio-economic needs, but the enrollment
projections for primary and non-formal education are too high and the mecha-
nisms for implementation of new non-formal education programs (para. 3.18)
and for improved primary school efficiency could be better defined. There is
also a need for closer coordination between the Planning Council and the
Ministry of Education departments which will implement a number of these
programs.
Primary Education
3.05      In 1973 about 64% of all children aged 7-12 were enrolled in primary
education. In urban areas about 50% of first grade entrants completed the
sixth grade, compared to only 3.5% in rural areas. Two of the major causes
of low primary school efficiency in rural areas are the lack of complete
primary schools (only 17% provide all six grades), and, in Indian areas,
education in an alien language (Spanish) and culture.
3.06      Over the next four years the government proposes to increase rural
enrollments from 271,000 in 1975 to 379,000 in 1979, to improve promotion
rates in the first four grades from 52-58% to 82-90%, to restrict the enroll-
ment age in first grade to those between 7 and 9, and to provide non-formal
primary school equivalency education to over-aged students. However, the
resources are not available to implement these ambitious goals and a more
likely target date is 5 to 10 years later. USAID has been involved in
assisting primary education for some time and recently completed negotiations
for a second loan for primary sclhool improvement and expansion.



-5-
Secondary Education
3.07      In secondary education enrollment in 1973 in lower secondary schools
(grades 7-9) was equal to about 18% of the 13-15 age group and in upper
secondary schools (grades 10-12) about 8% of the 16 to 18 age group. ) Girls
make up about 40% of total enrollment. The percentage of school-age children
enrolled is low for Guatemala's level of economic development and for future
needs for middle-level manpower. As noted above, secondary education
curriculum, particularly at the upper level (grades 10-12), is not articu-
lated with needs for middle level trained manpower. The predominance of
fee-charging private institutions restricts intake to middle class children
and the predominance of secondary education in Guatemala City (64% of total
enrollment) restricts opportunity geographically. In addition qualified
teachers are lacking in all areas, especially in practical subjects.
3.08      In view of the numerous qualitative problems, the government has
proposed enrollment increases of 5% per annum to 1979 -- less than the average
increase of 8.5% per annum since 1966 -- with emphasis on growth outside
Guatemala City. These increases will be achieved and probably exceeded,
especially through expansion of private education and locally organized
1tcooperative' schools partially aided by the central government.
3.09      The government's plans for improved quality and relevance of
secondary education include:
(a) expanded teacher training to produce qualified practical
subjects teachers;
(b) implementing further the new pre-vocational curriculum;
(c) strengthening curriculum development, research, and other
aspects of quality control at the Ministry of Education; and
(d) developing an information system on existing physical and
human resources in secondary and other levels of education
and a future plan for priority investments.
3.10      The government's new curriculum outline for lower secondary schools
would provide 10 class periods a week (out of 32 class periods) of introduc-
tions to industrial, agricultural, commercial and home economics subjects
to be offered to both girls and boys. These courses would be designed to
assist students in choosing further on-the-job or non-formal training and to
direct continuing students towards more relevant further studies. This curri-
culum outline is satisfactory but further detailed curriculum development,
especially for practical subjects, is required. Programs to train practical
subjects teachers will need to begin very soon to implement the new curriculum
in Bank-supported schools.
1/   Includes overaged students.



- 6 -
3.11      At the upper secondary level the government proposes to reduce
school enrollments in the teacher training course and to offer subjects in
important development areas, such as tourism, forestry, home economics,
mechanics, and textiles. The government has established a committee to
review further the upper secondary curriculum and to develop appropriate
syllabi. While the general approach is sound, care must be taken to restrict
the time devoted to practical subjects to less than 50% of the total weekly
teaching periods, to restrict the number of options per school and to choose              -
options on the basis of realistic development needs.
3.12      The government has proposed to extend implementation of the new
curriculum through construction of new school buildings in strategic locations,
through provision of science laboratories and workshops to several existing
schools, and through construction of experimental common facilities centers
to provide science and pre-vocational education to neighboring schools. Over
the long-run the provision of common facilities centers will prove to be an
effective means of implementing secondary education reform in middle size
cities, which would have a number of neighboring public and private schools.
In smaller towns construction of small schools as well as of laboratories and
workshops as school annexes should prove most efficient.
Teacher Training
3.13      With regard to teacher training (Annex 3), in 1973 almost 90% of
all primary school teachers were qualified graduates of upper secondary
teacher training schools, but these schools were producing about 1,600 per
year more than the 1,000 per year the primary system actually needed. At the
same time only about 4% of secondary school teachers had full university level
qualifications, and another 21% had other university training or specialized
secondary level certificates in art, music, home economics or physical
education. The rest of the secondary school teachers had only primary
school teachers' certificates.
3.14      The government's policy in primary school teacher training is to
restrict expansion and to begin to provide viable alternatives to the
traditional upper secondary teacher training course. In the near future it
will also be necessary to close a number of these teacher training schools.
Higher Education
3.15      In higher education the government plans to emphasize expansion of
programs to train subprofessionals and secondary school teachers. The govern-
ment is encouraging public and private universities to expand their extension
courses which provide university level certificates to teachers of academic
subjects, is continuing to assist San Carlos University in the preparation
of science teachers, and is now developing post-secondary courses for teachers
of practical subjects. The government plans to utilize a number of institu-
tions, including the two main universities, Landivar (private) and San Carlos
(public), to implement the courses for teachers of practical subjects.
Landivar University has often worked under contract with the government and



- 7 -
it has had some experience in training industrial arts teachers. Experience
under the first education project, in which the Bank financed construction
at San Carlos of a teacher training institution, was not entirely satisfac-
tory due primarily to lack of coordination between the government and the
university, The institution is now operating below designed capacity and
does not produce practical subjects teachers, as originally planned. In
addition, San Carlos is now in the process of reorganizing its structure.
Thus its capacity to undertake major new teacher training responsibilities
will have to be carefully monitored. Plans for training teachers of practi-
cal subjects need to be fully defined in 1976 for programs to begin and
qualified teachers to be made available for Bank-supported secondary
schools when they open.
Agricultural Education
3.16      The government has proposed to mount a major effort to improve and
expand agricultural education to alleviate the existing shortage in number
and quality of agricultural personnel. At the technician level the aim is
to further strengthen the Agricultural Technical Institute (ITA) at Barcenas
(supported under the first Bank education project) and improve the quality
of its graduates, and to establish two small experimental agricultural
training schools which would prepare lower middle-level technicians to per-
form direct functions in agricultural development by employment in government
service, on farms, in farmer youth clubs, and in proposed non-formal education
activities, principally among the rural Indian population. In addition the
government would offer pre-vocational agricultural education in lower secondary
schools included in the proposed second project. At the farmer training level
the goal is to further expand farmer training through centers recently cons-
tructed with assistance from USAID. Most of these goals can be reached. How-
ever, it will be necessary to limit the size of the new agricultural training
schools to about 180 places per school and to evaluate them carefully before
expanding their facilities.
Non-formal Education
3.17      In non-formal education the government proposes rapid expansion of
existing institutions as well as creation of four new training programs
("educational modules") which correspond roughly to grades 1-4, 5-9, 10-12
and higher in the formal system. The educational content of these programs
and their implementation are now being developed with assistance from UNESCO,
UNICEF and USAID. In this regard, the government plans to reach 275,000
persons by 1979 with mixed media programs of information and education in
agriculture, health and community development (module 1). A National Non-
Formal Education Committee has now begun to function and Guatemala has
already developed some expertise in non-formal radio education. In addition
the national apprenticeship service (INTECAP) is planning to expand its
activities in Guatemala City and four provincial cities through assistance
from the IDB. Guatemala's limited numbers of persons with the administra-
tive, managerial, technical, instructional, and linguistic skills needed to



-8-
reach previously untouched populations will restrict rapid expansion of these
programs. Careful study of the environment and the indigenous population
will be required and the programs will have to overcome centuries of the
rural peasant's perception that the government has not been concerned with
his welfare.
Financial Implications
3.18      Central government support of education in 1973 was only 1.9% of
GDP. This figure has been low because of the government's traditionally low
level of taxation and a lack of interest until recently in improving social
infrastructure. However, in 1972 and 1973 the government increased signifi-
cantly its capital investment in education, and the 1975-1979 Education Plan
proposes ambitious new programs. These plans for expansion and improved quality
require an increase in the allocation of recurrent expenditure from 21.5%
in 1975 to 24% in 1979 and an increase in capital expenditures on education
from 4% to about 6% of the government's total capital expenditure (Annex
4). Increases in expenditure on primary and non-formal education would be
relatively larger than those in secondary and higher education. These in-
creases are significant but entirely feasible if the government continues
the recent trend of placing higher priority on education. Over the long
run to 1985 or 1990, government resources would be sufficient to finance
expansion of the system on the assumptions that the effort to support
education would continue and that the economy would continue to grow at 6%
a year.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Strategy and Content
4.01      The proposed project is designed principally to assist the govern-
ment in implementing more fully the objectives supported by the first project,
especially through programs of teacher training and technical assistance;
and to complement government efforts in non-formal and primary education
which are under way with assistance from other bilateral and multilateral
agencias. Specifically, the project would support implementation of a pre-
vocational curriculum in both lower d.ld u?pcr secondary education, which
would enable the system to provide output more in keeping with national
development needs. In addition two experimental agricultural training schools
would provide workers needed to performn direct functions in agricultural develop-
ment. Project schools would function as community training centers available
for programs of INTECAP, the "education modules" and other institutions.
Both first and second project schools would be assisted through teacher and
administrative staff training programs and technical assistance to implement
the new curriculum.
4.02      The project content consists of:
(i) construction, furnishing, and equipping of the education
institutions described below:



-9-
Expected
Type of           Number of Schools  Physical Capacity  Additional    Boarding
Institutions      New    Extensions  (Student Places)  Enrollment /1   Places
(a)  Lower Secon-
dary Schools
(grades
7-9)/2        11          3               6,240          4,640
(b)  Combined
Upper & Lower
Secondary
Schiools
(grades
7-12)/2        2          1               2,040          1,560          -
(c)  Common Facili-
ties Centers
grades 7-9)    2          -               1,120          4,480           -
(d)  Agricultural
Training
Schools        2          -                 390/3          -           390/3
Total    16          4               9,750         10,680        390
/1   Additional enrollments from double-shift use of new secondary schools
and multiple shift use of the Common Facilities Centers. An undetermined
number of adults and out-of-school youths would also be served.
/2   Ten of these schools would also serve as non-formal training and community
centers.
/3   Includes 30 places for farmer and in-service training.
(ii)  provision of additional equipment and teaching materials to
the Agricultural Technical Institute and to seven schools
assisted under the first Bank project;
(iii)  extensive in-service and pre-service training programs for the
teaching staff (about 600 teachers) and administrative staff
(about 100 administrators and supervisors) connected with the
first and second project schools;
(iv)  related technical assistance comprising 11 man-years of
specialist services in teacher training and education planning
and 45 man-years of fellowships for local staff; and



- 10 -
(v) studies to map existing educational resources, to determine
future priority investment needs in education, and to help
establish a tracer system to follow-up project school graduates.
Elements of the Project
4.03      Lower Secondary Schools.  The proposed project would provide for
construction, furnishing, and equipping of 11 new lower secondary schools
(5,600 places) and for extensions (principally science laboratories and
practical workshops) to improve lower secondary instruction in three other
schools (640 places). 5,020 of these places would be new and 1,220 would
replace inadequate facilities. At full capacity (two shifts) these schools
would reach over 10,000 students with the new pre-vocational curriculum
(para. 3.10) and would provide annual output of about 3,000 students.
Five of these schools would be in the priority central highlands area and
all would be outside Guatemala City.
4.04      Nine of these schools (as well as one of the combined schools
described below) would also function as centers for non-formal education
and training programs which would serve the local community. The larger
schools would have a permanent director of non-formal education who
would organize community, youth, and training groups and program use of
institutions, such as INTECAP, the Agricultural Services General Directorate
(DIGESA), the Adult Literacy Department of the Ministry of Education, the
New Youth Movement, and the proposed modular program of skill training for
out-of-school youths and adults would utilize the facilities. The government
has given assurances that (i) the Ministry of Education would make the schools
freely available to non-formal training agencies; and (ii) the detailed cur-
riculum for practical subjects to be taught in these schools would be submitted
to the Bank for review within one year of the signing of the loan agreement.
4.05      Ccombined Upper and Lower Secondary Schools.  The project would
provide for construction, furnishing, and equipping of two new combined
upper and lower secondary schools (1800 places) and for expansion to improve
both upper and lower secondary education at another school (240 places).
The upper secondary curriculum in two schools would be designed to provide,
in lieu of the traditional teacher training course, practical subjects which
are relevant to development needs where the schools are located.  The third
school, to be located in Guatemala City, would replace existing inadequate
facilities for a lower secondary school and for the training of home economics,
arts, and physical education teachers for lower secondary schools. Development
of an appropriate pre-vocational curriculum would be a condition of dis-
bursement for construction, furnishing and equipping of these schools.



11 -
4.06      Common Facilities Centers.  The proposed project would provide
for construction, furnishing, and equipping of two common facilities centers
located in Guatemala City.  These centers would provide 1,120 student places
to serve up to 5,600 students on a multiple shift basis. One center (640
places) would be located on the same site where a combined lower and upper
secondary school would be constructed to replace existing inadequate facili-
ties; this center would serve the school to be built and several existing
nearby lower secondary schools. The second center (480 places) would be
located on a separate site within easy access of a number of feeder lower
secondary schools. Both centers would be near adequate public transporta-
tion.
4.07      The main purpose of the centers would be to provide workshops for
practical subjects and laboratories for existing lower secondary schools with
inadequate facilities and to enable these schools to implement the new lower
secondary school curriculum. The utilization of these centers would permit
significant economies in initial investment per student and in operation
through intensive utilization of resources and facilities. The centers would
also provide facilities for organized non-formal education and training to
out-of-school youth and adults. A coordinating committee to include directors
of feeder schools and representatives of participating non-formal institutions
would oversee their use. The government has given assurances that the Ministry
of Education would make the schools freely available to non-formal training
agencies. The development of skills to manage these centers would enable the
Guatemalan Government to organize similar centers in other areas of Guatemala
City and in large towns and cities.
4.08      Agricultural Training Schools.  The project would provide for cons-
truction, furnishing, and equipping of two new experimental agricultural train-
ing schools, to be located in the priority western highlands and northern
regions of the country. Each school would have student places and full board-
ing facilities for 180 students, principally rural Indian youths; and the
school in the western highlands would also have 30 places for non-formal
training of farmers and others. The main training course in each school
would be 3 years in length and would be designed to prepare about 120 students
per year who would perform direct functions in agricultural development by
employment in government service, on farms, in farmer youth clubs, and in
the proposed non-formal education and training activities.  New students
would have to be at least 13 years old and provide evidence of completion
of primary school or an equivalent reading and mathematical achievement.
Since graduates would perform direct functions in agricultural development,
principally in the rural disadvantaged areas, entrance requirements would
give due consideration of the linguistic and socio-economic background of
students necessary to meet the schools' objectives. The government has pro-
posed to administrate these schools through a joint council of the Ministries
of Education and Agriculture. This council would be established and its
director appointed within six months of the signing of the Loan Agreement.
The schools would not be expanded until an evaluation has been made of their
effectiveness.



12 -
4.09      Additional Equipment and Teaching Materials.  The project would
provide additional equipment for about two workshops each to seven selected
first project schools which would implement the pre-vocational curriculum at
the upper secondary level. Funds from the first project were sufficient to
provide equipment for only lower secondary instruction.  Development of an
appropriate pre-vocational curriculum (para. 3.11) would be a condition of
disbursement for the provision of equipment to the selected secondary schools
which,would implement these programs.
4.10      In addition to the above, the project would provide about $80,000
in additional equipment to the Agricultural Technical Institute in Barcenas
to cover a shortfall in equipment provided by the first project and to enable
the institute to assist in training agricultural teachers for the new agri-
cultural training schools and the lower secondary schools to be constructed
under the proposed project. A condition of disbursement for these funds would
be the implementation of a program for in-service training and fellowships to
teaching staff.
4.11      Training of Teachers and Administrative Staff.  The project would
provide for the training of over 600 teachers of industrial arts, commerce,
home economics, and agriculture and for about 100 directors, supervisors, and
coordinators of both first and second project schools (Annex 5). The main
purpose of the teacher training courses would be to ensure proper staffing
of project schools, to ensure that project school equipment would be properly
used and maintained, and to help develop a permanent institutional capacity
in Guatemala for both pre- and in-service training of these types of teachers.
Courses for new teachers of practical subjects would average 9 months in
length. Vacation courses would be provided to practical subjects teachers in
first project secondary schools and in the Agricultural Technical Institute.
4.12      In addition to the teacher training programs, about 30 project
school administrators, 30 supervisors and directors of associated and feeder
schools, and 20 non-formal education coordinators would take vacation courses
of two months in length. The emphasis of these courses would be on efficient
management of school resources and on the role of the school as a community
asset.
4.13      The government has selected a number of institutions, in consulta-
tion with the Bank, to implement the training courses for practical subjects
teachers and for administrators and supervisors, under the coordination of
the Department of Curriculum Development. The Government has given assurances
that (i) within six months of the signing of the Loan Agreement it would
complete an operational plan for the teacher training to be supported under
the proposed project, including agreements with participating institutions,
which would be acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) within one year of the signing
of the Loan Agreement it would develop a more comprehensive long-term plan
for establishing a permanent institutional capacity for training of teachers.
In addition, suitably qualified and trained teachers in adequate numbers
and on a full-time basis would be provided for each of the project institu-
tions, and graduates of project supported training courses would be given
preference for employment in these institutions.



- 13 -
4.14      Technical assistance.  The project would provide about 11 man-years
of specialist services and about 45 man-years of fellowships equal to about
US$1 million (Annex 6). The purpose of this assistance would be to ensure
efficient execution of the proposed project and to improve the planning and
administration of the formal and non-formal education system, with emphasis
on secondary education.
4.15      In brief, the project would provide for (a) an expert in teacher
training and school management who would serve as leader of the entire tech-
nical assistance mission (2 1/2 man-years); (b) four specialists in commercial,
agricultural, industrial, and home economics education (4 man-years); (c) two
or more specialists to improve educational management at both the local and
national level (2 man-years); (d) three short-term specialists to help to
improve and expand production of educational materials and assist the procure-
ment process ( 1 1/2 man-years); and (e) two specialists to develop non-formal
vocational programs and youth programs to be conducted in the schools to be
constructed (one man-year).
4.16      Of the 45 man-years of overseas fellowships proposed, about 31 would
be designed to upgrade teacher-trainers in agricultural, industrial, commercial
and home economics teacher training institutions. The fellowships would be made
available principally during the first two years of the project, so that returning
teachers could implement the teacher trainincl programs to take place during
the second and third years of the project. About 10 fellowships would be
provided to strengthen the Ministry's proposed Department of Curriculum
Development and other departments. This department is expected to manage the
educational aspects of the Bank project as well as other projects under
international assistance. In addition about four fellowships would be pro-
vided to directors of the common facilities centers and to the directors of
the larger secondary schools to be constructed.
4.17      The government intends to seek technical assistance from other
international agencies which might provide it without any cost to the govern-
ment. If such assistance is forthcoming, the funds for the items affected
should be cancelled or diverted for other use acceptable to the Bank.
Specialists would be employed under terms of reference and conditions agreeable
to the Bank, fellowships would be selected and placed in consultation with the
Bank and suitable counterparts for the specialists would be provided by
the government.
4.18      Studies.  The project would support a school resources and mapping
survey of the formal and non-formal educational system in relation to demo-
graphic and economic variables and in relation to the demand for education
(para. 3.09). In addition the project would support a study to help establish
a tracer system to be used in following-up student dropout, graduation, further
training, and subsequent employment of those who have attended project insti-
tutions. These studies would provide part of the input necessary for a pre-
investment study to be supported by the project which would establish the



- 14 -
priorities and develop an action program for physical expansion of the education
system and for qualitative improvement in teaching, administration and curricu-
lum, with particular emphasis on tying the education system more closely to
economic development needs (para. 3.02). The study would include a description
of specific projects for possible support by the Guatemalan Government, by the
Bank and by other international agencies.
Cost of the Project
4.19      I}ie estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the various
project items is summarized below. The breakdown by type of expenditure is
shown in detail in Annex 7.
Quetzales or US$ (millions)
Local      Foreign    Total
14 Lower Secondary Schools                4.04         3.80       7.84
3 Combined Upper & Lower Secondary
Schools                                1.23         1.03       2.26
2 Common Facilities Centers              1.09         1.15       2.24
2 Agricultural Training
Schools                                0.86         0.68       1.54
Teacher Training                       0.52         0.28       0.80
Technical Assistance                   0.07         0.88       0.95
Equipment for Existing Schools         0.03         0.27       0.30
Studies                                0.05         0.10       0.15
Project Administration                 0.20         0.05       0.25
Base Cost Estimates             8.09         8.24     16.33
Contingencies                          3.08         2.73       5.81
Physical (9%)                        0.79         0.69       1.48
Price (24%)                          2.29         2.04       4.33
Total Project Cost             11.17        10.97     22.14



- 15 -
4.20      The base costs are estimated in prices projected to the end of
November, 1975.  Added to these base cost estimates are contingency allowances
(Annex 8) for (a) unforeseen physical increases equal to 5% of base costs for
equipment and 10% for all other items; and (b) price escalation equal to 24%
of the base price plus physical contingencies over the four years of project
implementation. Price contingencies for construction, furniture and equipment
are based on recent price increases in Guatemala and projected trends in world
prices and are estimated at an average of 15% in 1975, 13% in 1976, 11% in
1977 and 1978, and 10% in 1979. Total physical and price contingency allowances
amount to US$5.8 million, or 36% of the base cost estimates.
4.21      The construction cost estimates were derived mainly from the updated
prices of the civil works contracts for the first Bank education project.
The base cost estimates were, however, adjusted to reflect the maximum use
of local building materials and economical norms and standards in the design
and construction of the project institutions. The estimated construction cost
averages US$115 per square meter of the gross floor area (excluding site
development, professional services and contingencies). A local cost adjust-
ment ranging from 4% to 22% has been made for the project institutions outside
the Guatemala City area to allow for differences in transportation costs and
availability of local skilled labor and building materials.
4.22      Furniture cost estimates are likewise based on a review of actual
costs incurred in the first project. Equipment costs are based on review of
the first project and consideration of requirements of the new curriculum.
Average allowances of 2% for equipment and 4% for furniture for transportation
costs based on the first project experience were made.
4.23      Thle costs of project administration include salaries of all Project
unit personnel and all costs for materials and equipment.  The loan itself
would cover the costs of salaries of the project director and four key staff
members. The unit will utilize equipment and transportation provided in the
first project.
4.24      The foreign exchange component of the project would be about US$11.0
million equivalent, representing 50% of the total project costs. It was based
on a review of experience in the first project and calculated as follows:
civil works - 40%, furniture - 55%, equipment - 90%, professional services -
20%, administration - 20%, teacher training - 20%, technical assistance - 92%,
pre-investment studies - 20%.
Recurrent Costs of Project Schools
4.25      First project schools operating at near full capacity had unit
recurrent costs roughly comparable to those of conventional government schools.
Hlowever, if project schools are to be adequately maintained and are to be able



16 -
to replace used materials, this figure should be increased by about 15%. On
this basis by 1979 second project secondary schools would be expected to
generate additional recurrent costs of about US$1.7 million. Since about
25% of project places would replace existing inadequate facilities, the net
increase in the recurrent budget generated by the project would be about
US$1.2 million.  This would be about 10% of the projected recurrent budget
of the Ministry of Education for secondary education in 1979 and about 1.4%
of the central government's projected recurrent budget for education and
training.
V.  IPTLET!ENTATION ANT)  ISBURSEIENT
Project Administration
5.01      The existing project unit, which was established within the
Ministry of Communications and Public Works, performed relatively satis-
factorily in physical execution of the first project, but educational
aspects, especially teacher training and curriculum reform, were seriously
neglected. The Government has recognized this problem. It will restrict
the project unit to physical implementation and give to the Department of
Curriculum Development in the Ministry of Education the responsibility to
supervise educational aspects of the project (para. 3.03). Conditions of
effectiveness of the loan would be (i) the appointment of a director of
the Department of Curriculum Development who would be the coordinator between
the project unit and the Ministry of Education; and (ii) appointment by the
Ministrv of Agriculture of a coordinator for the agricultural education aspects
of the project. The Covernment would provide both the project unit and the
Department of Curriculum Development with adequate support staff, facilities
and any other resources that may be required.
Projct Implementation Schedule
5.02      To assist in the effective and timely execution of the proposed
project a comprehensive implementation schedule has been prepared (Annex 9).
This schedule was discussed during negotiations and mutually agreed upon
as a project implementation and monitoring tool.
Professional and Technical Services
5.03      Architectural design work for the project institutions would be
assigned to consultant firms acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions
agreeable to the Bank. The project unit would elaborate with the assistance
of consultants the agreed project implementation schedule, including among
other things: (i) the basic information on educational standards; (ii)
specifications for preparing designs, basic construction standards and build-
ing materials to be used; and (iii) unit costs for the project institutions.



- 17 -
The government would establish technical review committees with representatives
of the Ministries of Education and Agriculture and the project unit to analyze
and review architectural designs and equipment and furniture lists and speci-
fications and certify that they meet economic and functional standards and
costs and the educational objectives of each project institution. The members
of such committees and their staffing composition would be acceptable to the
Bank and the committees would be established within six months of loan signing
and remain in effect for the project implementation period.
Sites
5.04       All except three of the secondary school sites were found to be
acceptable. Most of these sites already belong to an agency of the govern-
ment. The specific sites for the agricultural training schools have not yet
been chosen. Suitable sites acceptable to the Bank would be acquired as and
when needed for the construction and operation of the facilities included in
the project.
Procurement
5.05       Contracts for civil works would be awarded to pre-qualified bidders
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to the Bank. Since most civil works are of small
size, scattered throughout the country, foreign contractors are not expected
to be interested; but they would not be precluded from bidding. Guatemala
now has 15 major construction firms and about 40 small contractors. They are
competitive and capable of carrying out the construction involved in the
project.
5.06       Contracts for furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis
of international bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. However,
furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$25,000
would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with the
Borrower's regular procurement procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
Procurement under these procedures would not in aggregate exceed US$450,000
equivalent, or about 10% of the cost of furniture and equipment.
5.07       Since Guatemala is a member of the Central American Common Market,
domestic and other member countries' manufacturers would receive preferential
treatment in bid evaluations. The preferential margin for domestic and Common
Market manufacturers would be limited to 15% of c.i.f. base costs of imports
or 50% of the applicable import duties, whichever is lower.
Maintenance
5.08       Although a maintenance handbook was prepared for the first project
schools, it has not been used effectively because of inadequate allocation of
funds for maintenance of facilities as well as replacement of used materials.
The government has given assurances that it would provide adequate funds for
replacement of used materials and for maintenance of project schools. These
funds would be equivalent to one percent of the replacement costs of project
institutions for the first four years, and one and one half percent of the
replacement costs thereafter.



- 18 -
Disbursements
5.09      The proposed loan of US$14.5 million would cover the foreign exchange
component and 32% (US$3.5 million) of the local currency costs. It would be
equivalent to 65% of the total project cost of US$22.1 million. The loan would
be disbursed over a period of four years (Annex 9). Retroactive financing not
exceeding US$300,000 is recommended for expenditures made since July 1, 1975,
for professional services, technical assistance and project administration.
Conditions of disbursement would be those referred to in paras. 4.05, 4.09 and
4.10.  Any surplus funds of the loan would be used for priority items closely
related to the original project, subject to the Bank's approval.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points: (i) preparation of the detailed curriculum of project
schools (para. 4.04); (ii) entrance requirements for students in the agricul-
tural training schools, evaluation of these schools, and establishment of a
council to administrate them (para. 4.08); (iii) development of an operational
plan to implement the teacher training aspects of the project and of a long
term plan for expanding government institutional capacity for teacher training
(para. 4.13); (iv) establishment of a tracer system to follow-up students of
project institions (para. 4.18); (v) establishment of technical review commit-
tees to analyze and review architectural designs and equipment and furniture
lists and specifications (para. 5.03); and (vi) provision of adequate funds
for replacement of used materials and for maintenance of project schools
(para. 5.08).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness for the project are (i) the appointment
of a director of the Department of Curriculum Development who would be the
coordinator between the project unit and the Ministry of Education; and (ii)
appointment by the Ministry of Agriculture of a coordinator between the
project unit and the Ministry of Education (para. 5.01).
6.03      Conditions of disbursement would be (i) for construction, furnishing,
and equipment of upper secondary schools, the development of an appropriate
pre-vocational curriculum for these schools (para. 4.05); (ii) for the provision
of equipment to first project schools which would provide pre-vocational programs
at the upper secondary level, the development of an appropriate pre-vocational
curriculum (para. 4.09); and (iii) for the provision of additional equipment to
the Agricultural Technical Institute in Barcenas, the implementation of a
program for in-service training and fellowships to teaching staff (para. 4.10).
6.04      Subject to the fulfillment of conditions described above, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for the proposed Bank loan of US$14.5 million,
with a repayment period of 30 years, including a 10-year grace period.



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION  INDICATORS                                                                 ANNEX  I
JANUARY 9, 1976
....................................................................................................................................
I         1            3           t                    I           4         I             I       I              I              A          I       A          A
I GNPO' A % GNP   It  TOTALl%   OF PUBLIC  I                        I         I            SPRI. IAV.PRI.   :                     I          ISEC   t           A
ICAPITAt DEVOTED:PUaLIC  A EDUCATION                    iLITER.  iPRI. sCOMPLE.  iSTU-  o3CH.TEACH:PROGRESS-i SEC.  ISTU-  t                                    I
A    At    A TU EDU.:    EXP. I RECURRENT               :ACY        JENROLLSTION           :DENTSISALARY  INSION RATE  JENROLLIDENTSt4TGHER3
I         %MARKETI (PUBLItIOEVOTEDsEXP  4LLOCATEnt    RXTE  2RXTIO  IRATE FORSPER    tRELATION  tFRCIK PRj.tRXTIO  tPER    tENROLLI
APOP. :vRrCESI EXP.    A    TO                I       TOt         I(% OF  t    NET   IPRI.SCH.tTEACHI TO GNP/  170 SEC.    I NET   iTEACH- RATIO:
YPI(nOO) I (IJSI)l ONLY)    I    EDU.  tORT. SEC. Hi.:ADULTS)t  (t)   sCYCLE(%)rFQ                                   CAPITA                     2 (2)   tER        A  M        I
t         A                    1   1                                t         A             2                                     t          I        I         I
12    (?) 1   (3)            (4)   A          (5)        1 (6)    1(1)   I    (8)    I  (9) I   (10)                 A (111         M R)   :(13) W 0             z
....................................................................................................................................
4DVAMCED
;:;;;-I;            73      7. SC P,410C          4 .       Q . C)     47Q   250   2 00    99            98          93          p t,       2.0           9 9         5 1       1 9        8.00
C AN A 0 A          7 2 21. 8   a,440             7. 7     1 9. a      3 a    3 8     I 9     9B         89          98          24          2. 0         99          92        1 7        9.00
GERMANY F.REP.72   61.6   3,390                   4.2      14.2        ...   74** 26           99        91          99          33        ...            99          91        22       17.00cy
3 A P A 11          7 IIOb.qC 2, 3?OC             4.3    20 . 7        39    39       1 2     99         99D         99C         ?5C         2 . 0        99C         94r)      2DC    2 8 . a 0 0
NETRERLANDS         ?a   15.3   2,Aqo             8.5      19.IG    32        45      19      99         95          95          29          3.0          97          73        20       11.00
NE4 ZEALAND         73    2. 9c P. 5boc           -, . L.    . . ,     39     24    29        99         99          99          26        ...            99          67        1 q      241.0 0
4ORWhI              72    3.4   S, 340            7 . 0    15 .2       SB     23      i 3     99         gq          9 tk        2 0         1 .9         qq          7 6       1 4      1 1 .00
s w F E) E N        7 3     a . I c 41490C        8.9      1 6 .0      36     1 4     1 3      09        9q          9 9         1 7       . . .          C) 0        A 5       I        3n.00
U..                ? o 55.8c 2, 6 o o c          5.8      1 3. 8      . . .   . I . . . .    97         9 9         ...         2 8       ...            ...         5 8       1        ...
U. S. k             7 220R.9   S, 59o             6. f)    1 5.4       ...   73* 27          99         99          99          2SU         2. a                     93        iqu    29. 0
EURDPE
R- ;              7 1     8.9  1,460C          2.2      1 1. I      say   29Y   14Y    82A            qsy         ...         32Y       ...            ?OA         58Y       43Y      I t . ( a
IRELhNO             TR      3 . 0   1 580         5 . I    13.9f)    43Y   41Y   14Y    98               97          99A         3S                       OSA         75        IQ         T.OOA
PORTJGAL            12    9.7         730                                                                                                                             "9yy                 7 60Y
It   3'1.3C  I , I 0 0 C                                                            9 A                                                          29A                  f, OOA
SPAIY                                             ;:;a   ;;:h                                           9;XY                    ;;A
AFRICA
;L-:.;;T;           73   lu.2c        430C        Q.OA      . . .      43    32       16      25A        67          96          41          6. a         37          18X       26         I.So
3E 4 I 4            73    2. 9c       I I (C      5. 3    32 . 0       47    23       1 a      I 1       32xs        7 0 a       Soo       PS.OR          439          7R       398        0 . 44CY
3DTS4ANA            7u      0 . 7     3 0 0       5. 0    20 . 0       38    20       is      2S         7ox         7           3 5        5. 0          2 4         13X       1 A        0.30Y
RL)RU4DT            7 2     3. 6        6 0                                                              27XSY                   3boy                                  2XRY   IIAV    0  154Y
CAqEROON            7 r)    S.OC      200C                             ;;y                               7 4                     51DY                                  8        23CY    0:90cy
c , A . R .         7 0     1 . 6 c   lsoc        4.1N   20. a         5 6    1 9     . . .    ...       64CY        25          bscy      ...            I 8          5CY    27BY    0.07Y
c 4 A 7)            7 o     3 . 5 c     S(C       4. 3     1 4 . 3     1 7    2 3      0        7        29XBY    ...            66BY      ...            ...          2xRY   3 0          O.OlRy
C94GI(q)            73    11.3c       300C        .8    26.4          459Y 358Y  ISBY   50?            13ax         ...         63        ...            ...         R9        43Y        2.44CY
E T -4 I'3P I 6     7 3 25.4c           5 G       3.1    2O.D          4 a    29      1 8       7        17C         4 ?         5 0         3.0                       2        3 0        (1.2 0
GA41N               73    0.5c        Ftaoc       5.0    20.6          25       9     11       ...      184xsy    25C            46C        5.0           IBA         20C       21C        1.40cy
SH411A              71    9.1c        300C        a.7    ?4.4DR   380   150   23P              ...       56XCY    62             30CY      ...            14          lix       16CY    0.748Y
IV3RY COAST         7 2     5.Q       1 4 0       6. 3    24.7         27BY  338Y  13Y          9 A      S ?         57A         4 (I      ...            , . .       I 0       2 r,       I Z9BY
4EqY&               7 3 1 2. I c      t7lC        6. a    27.o         f,3    1 1     t I     a 0      t orx         ...        4 O         8.0           1 4         1 2       23         1 .03RY
LEgOtHl             7      O.qC        90C       Li . 7   22. o       45C   ISC   24C         40        65          ...         45          ...          ...          A        22         1) . n3
05ERIA              74      1.6c      333C        2. 7     1 3. 9      25     1 3     22       ...       5q          . I .       39          1.8          ...         20        2n         I . t OA Y
'4ALA4T             ?4      4. 7 -    IDOC        3 .1    20 .9        ...    ...    ...    25           56Y         60         so          7.0           40           qx       20        (' .26ey
4AL'I                74    5.1.         70C       0.6N   32.3          368   528   129         10        is          22          40        14.0           37           4        17         n.t6AY
4AJQTTANTA          70      1 . RC    isoc        4.5    21. 0         ...    ...    ...    I 0          115Y        ...         22          ...          ...          3        24         ...
'4AJRTTTU9          72      0 . 8     3 0 0       3 . I    11 . 70     7 1    1 0      4      Ft 0       86          gq          3 1                                  3 1       3 o        1 . 417C y
40 q licc 71        7 4 15.3c         ?7OC        5.OC   lb,5          4 4    4 7      9      26?        54X         2 1        3 7          ...          3 1         13X       2 1       2.0
Ni3EPIA             71   69.5c        t3oc        3.2N   ...           40A   24A   20A         ...       39xcy       ...        34CY         ...          ...          Li       20CY    0.17cy
RWANDA              73    3.7C         6ONC       3.2C   28.or)    ...    ...    ...    23               5?          ...        5t           ...          ...          2        13        O.?3CY
SENEGAL             7 1     4 , 0 c   ?SOC        0 . 0 N   22.5DR   38A   42A    5 A          t 0       38X         ...         4 6                      ...         I I x     25         1.71cy
SIERRA LEONE   7 3          2.7c      J; n C      3. 4     ?3.4        3 1    3 6     3 0      15?       3 Al x      45          3 2        4.OE          b8          13X       2 t        0.53RY
S n4A L i A         7 3     2. 9 -      B 0 C               7. 0       S 7    1 6     1 3       5        1 3         9 1         3 5       15.0           4 5          3        1 g        1. 0
.qU ) A            7 2 16.S          I 'IO       U.5      1 3.2       413    29      es       1 5       3 8         75          4 5        4.o           2 5         1 1       2 0        t . 2 3 Y
SWAM AND            7 2     0 . 4 -    P60       iJ . 3A   1 9.7      37    26       1 8     28         66          22          38         7 . 0         ...         16fly    20          1 . 0
TAVZANIA            74   13.2:        itoc        S.IN   17.o          36     ...   12        63         44X         ...         49                        7           2        RIC        0.3
TuN191A             73    5.3C        390C        6.3    23.4          37    43       is      55         72          81          41         6.0           31          14        2t         3.n
JGAN)A              In   10.4c        150C        5.2N   17.6CR   uno   22o   25g    25A                 48xcy       ...         36                       14A          4XCY   21          (.589Y
JP-ER V-ILT&    7R    5.51              64        4.0    23.9          65     10       6        5        10          ...         45        18.0           20           2        21         0.01gy
ZATRE               73   23.4         127         q.aCN 21.3c    SOC   17C   29C               Is        63          38          44h         6.0          L13          h        24         (.968Y
ZA4874              73    4.50        3BOC        5.6      16.5        4a    22       to      43         qsx         ...         50                       20          15X       20         004AY
CENTRAL AMERICA AND  TqE CARIBBEAN
COSTA PICA          71    I.Sc        6.30C       5.?    22.7          57    25       t2      99         86CY        65          29           3.0         58          22cy    25         12.11CY
DQqINICAN REP.7?            4 .2      14 8 0      2.5      i5.5DR   42    2ii    22            S 1       80          1 7         sa           3.OD        63          1 3       24         7 .0 0
EL  ';ALVAr)3Q      75      3.7c      3 lioc      3. 6    23 .8        6 1      5     RR       58AY    71xcy         ...         39CY                                 tbXCY   2tCY    4  35gy
GUATEMALA           7A    5 . 6 c     920C        I . 9    1 6.0       55    23    14          47        64          26                                                8        25         a f)9y
qATTT               72      4.&       1 30        o . 0     6. 6n      6 I    I I      8      20 9       22          25?         45           5. 0        5 0          3        2 3        1.00?
HONOJRAS            72    2.7         320         3.9    26.51         64     13      19      52         BIX         im          37           6.0         75          14W       14         3.AO
JAMAICA             72      1.9       810         6.5Y   19.7          33Y   22Y    7Y    86           106)(Y        ...        52                                    32xy      19         a 7gy
4EXlcn              70   54. IC    750C           2.6       9. 3       54    24       1 2      76        71          31          4 el                                 1 9       2 3        6:32cy
41CARAGJA           7ii    P.1c    t,30           2.5      14.2        61     13      13      57         65          21          37           2.0         93          17        24        7.0
TRINTDkD & T. 71    I . a C           ')(!(c      5. 1    t 8 . 9      53    27       12      go         9.3x        87          35           4.0         15          a 9       25         2. s6A Y
SOJT4 t4ERTCA
;-p;;TL             74   9 8 . RC    1330 c       4.4      12.OC       0 2    2 0      3 7    7 9        8ox                     27cy         ...         ...         tag       ISCY    6 . 0 0 9
CITLF              72   In.0         800         4.6Y   10.6y         349Y 150Y 409Y   ...             lltXDY       ...         37BY                                  BXDY
jO.q               18    20        73         67         20          36                                    17
C01.048TA           70   23.9C    400C            4,0                  35                                                                     ;:;         ;;,         a         ;'        -:;O
EC JAIIR           TR      S . 5     SSG         3.7      27,7C       4SOY 420Y  109Y   bl)             7 2         ...         38                                   1 tk       III       4.979Y
GU Y A'JA           7 4     O.7C      400C        S. ON   I 4.70    47    35          14       133A      92X         3q          33                        9,         62X       24         3 oo
PARAGuAy            T 4     2.4c      320C        1 .8     1 7. 9      5 7    1 5     28       R I       se          2 6         29                       65          tsx       I 0        4.( 0
PERU                71   14.1c    520C            L1.5    24.1r)    S(    22          15      72         an          35          390Y         3.0         70          30        23DY         12.00
VENEZUELA           73   tI.IC   t24nc            4.6      19.9        300   280   3so        77A        81                      33           2.a         ...         33        ...    12.63CY



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS   (C7ANTDI                                         ANNEX I  PAGE 2
522:::::  5;:no::  322::::
(JANUARY O, 1976)
2        2 IAAP/ 2 % GNP   I5 TOTALIX   OF PURLIC  I                I        :          :VRI,  2AV.PR).   :              :         SEC   2 
2       SCAPITAI IIEVOTE'hPUBLIC  2 EDUCAT1DN    ILITER- 2 PR1. tCORPLE-  :STU.~ 2SCH.TEACHrPR0GRESS2: SEC. iSTu. 2                                2
2   AT t TO EDU.:   EXP,  I RECURRENT    lACY                  IENROLLSTIaN         :3ENRO23ALARY INISON RATE  :ENPOLL:DENTS:HIGHER:
2        :"-ARAET:I (PURLIC:DEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATEDt   RATE (RATIO IRATE TORiPES   IRE LA TI 'IN :ER00m PPI.!P4TIO 59ER   ZENRULL,
IPOP,  aPR1CES: EXP.    :  TO)   2            Tn:       :f% nF   : NET   ?RRI.SCH,:TEACH: TO GNP/ 3TO SET,   : NEI  tTEACH- RATIO:
YRiCOTT)Ia (USS): ONLY)   2  ETO. :-RI,  SFC. 41.2ADULTS12  (%)   iCYCLE(Z)2ER    I CUPITA   2  (XI                         2 (I)   1EV    2  % IX
2       2   I                          2                 I                  I           I       I:                                :       :        2
2 (I)22    (23:t  (3IT                 I A      (5       2(6         (7)   I   (A)    I  a (       (IT       :(I)        2( I) CI31: (IA           2  
ASIA AND OCEANIA
SAN-GLAD;ESH     7 3  72,5C       700      1. 2    2, 2.        . ..      ... 23          560        ,.. .      AR         .          .,       IS       2A
CHINACTATAANT  7 3   15,11    URIC         1 .     20.04     25    Al4   2    8a2         RA        RU9       AS        1.          PA        39       6      15.0 0
IN31A            7l 563.3C    lISt         2.bVY ..   .. .           ... . .     29       793        ,..       USA         ,,.       ,,.       290      230AY    A.OOAY
bON) ONE SIUA    7 3 123.I~    120L    I),R    21. 0         65   23    134     6 2      613        4 0       3 2.                 9         12      1 6      2.03
IRAN             7 3  20,B:    ASC         3.3    1 2.6      SOP   SEA   129    50        7 7        74A       32        tOR        RDA       2 4      3 2     'A&SCY
I RAL             72  1 0 .1    'A70       6 ,7    16.30   ........              26      MTy        .,.       2          ..'       ..,       26301   26        6,RCY
JORDAN           73    ."1C    27TC       7T,T     0.98     52    3    i      59       qlo        76        39              ano    PA       50x      2?       41.0 0
KOREA             73  32,3:    3130        2,q    1R?.3      63    26      8      92      97                   53 s       T.TO       70        Si       SR       6,00
LE3A'AIN          72    2. 9     7300      3 .5    15,3      39    40    1 0      60      96         65        19(         2 ,00)    63        260J    5        3,0 0
H,ALAYSIA        72  11.3        333       6,3    22.7T..                .....    60      930        ...       32          ...       ...       350      26       ..
OMAN             72    0.5       5333      2.3      3.8      96      -    -       20o     V3        09        53         -.0            ,      3,U      91
AK1STAN    ~~~~~75  66. 7:    150      .6      6.2      03    25    193     2 1      470       SR         39         ?.TO       ... .     70V    IS        M
PHILIPPINES    76   39.0:    230          2,5    301, Q     73    13     I 5       7    1040        ...       30          1 5       ...       AbA,     ...    1 .30 
SINGAPORE         TA    A,0    100        S,IN   16.?       AU    51    25       75A    I07%        72        33          ...       9R        AT       2a       A.?5v
THAILAND          73   39,       OPI52C    3,0NI9 1. 7       63      9    035    32        RiO       031       32          3 . t o   9t   le    1       A1      2,30
T URKEY          72   3 7 .0     3 70      . . .    1 3 .030 .          ..... .   ..  .  1t09        ,      . .  34DY      . .,      ,  ..I    22XY    270Y    5.19Y3
YEMqEN           73   S6,3       1 00      0.9      0, 0     QSAP  21P  239      CO        ISA       I F       3 6        S."Y       7 5        AR      19         a,355v
YEMEN '.D.P.   7    1.3         to0       2,3A  12.6        79    12             IC0     000        31        29        10.710      99        10      0       0.A8AY
NJMRER  OlW COUNTRIES:                     67      6,7      61    59    59      62       73         32        72           39      00         73       6q        67
--A      -----E:( 0.35-   (3.05-   ( 235-   0-   (0                        9"      (0-       ((7-       t1CR-      (I'.9-    ( 7-       1.-     I-         .1
q.n I  32.30   961,  52)   401    99)          1940)    99 I       b'6  I      25,0)    ROT         75.3)   401      050.)
3TROI1LE0,:I9PFQ              3,7    21.0       97    36    23       69.      91        76        09           7        76        7:       26       4,79~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4    3 ,   P 0    P. 9 1 7~
MEDI TAN:                  AT.'n   I  1. 2   93     7    135    5G        7 1       36o       39                    653       Ii       AS       2 .30 
I~WP                    9.T    10a.3      32    17    11      20       A R        29        3 3          0       2 5         8       19       3,935
-    AGNITUDJE OIL 09 NEOLGI-1RLE  9:1Q71                           N=rTP-------
2    UES7TnDOAME                     C=:1072                        P:TNCLIDIONG FOREIGN AID                        11 CCLLINT:2  ANT?p -UPLO YANK
T IhCLII)ES XA3TTT'IE STUU)EOTS D=1073                              O.CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                               ATLAS
NA COMATNF) HITN 2YT"ARY              F=IjR7A                        R:HINTITPR  OF EDUICATION (ROE) 1)61Y                   3 T71  Ad Te857  M1550116
S=MDE  AND STATE G:)VT. (ONLY                                     AND/nR UNESCn
T=EXCL10190  CENTRAL GOVT,                                        STATISTICAL
Tl=PJRILTC ONLY                                                   yESAMOnK
V=INCL1'TIND PRIVATE EXPENDITIIOE
Y2INELIIDING OVERAGET STUDENTS
MIkJOESCO SOURCE S
CO'4PARATIVFED5C3001000 7330 ASE USEFUL 16 THE EVALJATION OF VARIOUS E30007106 SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS IF AELATIVF STAGES OF EFTUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT RFT,,TEN VARIOuR COUINTRIES. HOWFVER,O)N THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT CATA,CROSS-NATIONAL EOMPARISON SHOUILD BE APPROACHEDU WTTH
TREAT CAUTrION, OATA PRESEN4TED IN THE A9OVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELT BY THE RANK MISSIONS FrROM GOVERNMENT SUILIRCES: THE
REHAINDER ARE STAFF EST<4oIE3  OIR DATA  FROIM UNESCO. EFFnRTS HAVE SEEN MADE TO STANDARI7IZE DEFINITIONS AND ATTINlh LIMITS, TO CHECK 305
ACCLU00CR 79. THE DATA. NEVERT.ELESS.SUCH 0310 UPE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE RiANK CS WORKING TOI IMPROVE THFR
PROGRESSIVELY 06~ THE OCEASION OF ITS OPXERATIONAL WOIRK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOILLCIIING QAUALIFICATION,S SHOULD HE RURNE TN4
Iv( 90
(IT'T0UE0TTON' AS DEFIN~EDTNI THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUJCATION AND TVAlkINGN, FORMAL AND N'TN-FOPMAL1
12)"PRIMARS EDUCATTI'N REFERS TO~ EDUICATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECO60ARP" EDUCATION REFERS Y,0 ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONOARY
LEVEL REGARDL ESS OIF TYPE  (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, ACRICULTUAALT  I
13T"LITERAC' RATES'(CnL.60 ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COLUNTRY CENSUSES. IN HANYCTTUNTACES THEY APE ONLY APPROX1MATIONws AND IT is
DOJBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM OEFF1ITIDTN OF "LITERATE" HAT SEEN FoLLOWED CONSISTENTILY:
?1T"'UOLT0 EXPENDITLJRE IN EDUCATTIOo'(0CL3.,9, ANT, SI REFERZ TO ALL CAPITAL ANT0 RECUPRRENT EXPFN60TT0rS IDEVO)TED 0~ EFDCAITT'N RI
PORLIC AND n0JAS1RLJRLC AGENTCEO C
160"~E6ROLLYENT RAI1OSOCCOLS 7, 1?YAND T4) "EE  TO SCHOOL YEAR AND  lEAN THE PERCENTAOE OF FLII1058E CHILDREN FENROILLEG  FULL-TIME
I,' THE APPPIPRIATE 9CHNOOL, Pi'LTC AND PRIVATE 90 LEVEL. THEY AVE OFTEN 3IIHJFCT TOO A ~TDE MAWGTN 1W ERROR Ro THE 3EVFLDPTNT.
COAOJTVIES 3:19010 . VARIATION TN THE ACCUJRACY OF RA3(C GATAIT.E. AGE-SPECIFIC PUII9LATCON -N)) LVP1YLL'1NTST, ~NkULLMFNT FIGURES0
FFRQUEFNTLY 00  'IC HEA  THAN TOF NUASER (CF ST DENTS ACT UALLY  T'  DCR~OL. *  VFRASFD STIIOENTS :5057  INCUJYTOD1 TO  1010 A TED   VY
FOOTNOTES ALSOL CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



ANNEX 2
GUATEMALA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollments, Primary and Secondary Education, Guatemala
1973 and Projected to 1960 and-1965
E n r o 1 l m e n t s
1973        1980         1985
Primary School
(Grades 1 to 6)                            571,,000    730,,000    902,000
Urban                               301,000    385,000    475,000
Rural                               270,,000    345,000    427,000
Public                              489,000    625,000    772,000
Private                              83,000    105,000    130,000
Lower Secondary School  /                    64,000     91,000    141.,000
(Grades 7 - 9)
Public                               35,000     50,000      77,000
Private                              29.,000    41,000     64,000
Upper Secondary School i/                    28,000     47,000      66,000
(Grades 10 - 12)
Public                               14,000     23,500      33,000
Private                              14,000     23,500      33,,000
1i All secondary schools are in urban areas, which are defined as all cities,
towns, and settlements. Most urban areas have less than 5,000 population
and range from below 1,000 to 700,000 (Guatemala City).
Source: Educational Statistics Yearbook and
Mission Estimates



ANNEX 3
GUATEMALA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Teacher Requirements, 1974, 1980, 1985 and Teacher Output, 1973
1974          1980       1985
Prinary School Teachers
Total number of teachers                16,600        20,900     25,800
New teachers required                    1,000         2,000      2,400
Qualified teachers, 1974                15,000
Teacher output, 1973                     2,600
Secondary School Teachers 3]
Total number of teachers                 4,ooo         5,500      8,300
New teachers required                      400           500      1,100
Qualified teachers, 1974  g/             1,000
Teacher output, 1973                       300
3/ Based on estimated full-time equivalent teachers.
Many secondary school teachers work part-time
2   Includes all university graduates and graduates of specialized secondary
schools in art, physical education and home economics
Source: Educational Statistics Yearbook and
Mission Estimates



ANNEX 4
GLA;TEMALA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Government Education Expenditure - 1975, 1979
(Q'OOO in 1975 prices)
1975 L/                         1979
Total  Recurrent  Capital      Total  Recurrent  Capital 2J
Central Government
Educational Expenditure        59,359     55,218     4,141    91,940   83,958       7.982
(% of GNP)              (2,1%)      (1.9%)     (0.1%)   (2.5%)   (2.3%)       (0.2%)
(% of Central Gov't.
Expenditure)            (16.3%     (21.5%)    (3.9%)   19.5%)   (24.2%)       (6.4%)
Ministry of Education
Expenditure                    53,797     50,645     3,152    85,987   78,458        7,529
Primary                  31,553     29,679     1,874    50,190   44,693       5,497
- urban               16,686      14,899     1,787    n.a.      19,050      n.a.
- raral               12,770     12,683         87    n.a.      19,883      n.a.
- other                2,097       2,097       -      n.a.       5,760      n.a.
Lower Secondary          4,837       4,780        57      7,481    6,432      1,049
Upper Secondary           3,228      3,097       131      6,143    5,324         819
Higher                    7,361      7,361       -        8,688    8.688         _
Adult Education             904        904       -        5,435    5,271        164
Culture, etc.            2,169       2,144       25   ( 8,050   (8,050          -
Central Administration   3,745       2,680     1,065   (          (
Ministries of Communications   5,562       4,573        989     5,953    5,500         453
and Public Works, Agriculture,
and Health
/ Budget Estimates
2J Based on the average cost per year during the plan period
Source:  Secretaria General de CONAPLAN and mission estimates.



XUATEMkLA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Teacher Training Program
Suggested Implementation Schedule
1976                1977                 1978                1979
1   2   3   4       1   2   3   4        1   2   3           1        3   4
1. Industrial arts, com-
merce, home economics,
and agriculture teachers                            xX >                 XYYx x
for project schools
(9 months)
2. Vocational teachers in
first project schools                                                                X
(2-2 month periods)
3. Administrators and
sutervisors                                                     x 
(2 months
4t. Ton-formal education
coordinators
(2 months)
5. Teachers and admlinis-
trators in multiple
use centers
(1 month)                                                                                                           F



GUATENALA                                                ANNEX 6
SECOND EIWUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program
Suggested Tmplementation Schedule
1976               1977                1978                1979
TECHNICAL ASST. PROGRAMS
1. Teacher Training
a.  Chief of party                  Oxx5KxXKXKOCK            x       :XX XX           x
(2-1/2 years)
b. Experts in indus-
trial arts, com-
merce, agriculture                        x x(X a IxCae
and hone economics
(1 year each )
2. Educational materials
and ecuipment
a.  Educational ma-
terials ernerts                    x                                              x                (or as needed)
(6 months)
b. Designer of equip-
ment guides                                            xxx x
(6 months)
c.  Equipment pro-
curement spe-
cialists                  xxxxx
(6 months)
3.  Educational. anage-
ment
a. Local school
management exnert                                 xxxxx               xxxxx
(1 year)
b.  Educational s-ys-                                                                                   (or as iieedec)
tems management               x           xxxxx                   x                    x
expert (1 year)
4. Non-forma-l education
a.  Vocational
training expert                                   x                       x
(6 months)
b.  Youth organiza-
tion expert                                       x                       x
(6 months)
OUT-CF-CaLtDT7Y 3CHOI.'h3H1P
PROGRAMS
1.  Teacher trainero                                       KKICKyKXKx=KsxX
(31 man-years)
2.  Department of Curri-
culum Development                  x a        xXXr. a  X:XY XXX    a)o( CX XeXY CXXX    X X
and other 11inistry
Offices
(10 man-years)
3.  School administration                aexcexcer-             c   ((K x'ca(
(4 man-years)



CFCONSD 44IDUCA170N PRNJN2C!
S.Ly o  Costs ja  of No-vrbc  50  1975) O)0
(}xcaroge rote or pority:  US$1.00 -- Qact-al 1.00)
Total                Coot of                                                                                                          Adeis. &                                      Pee-        Peojert      TosI
tudont  Gross2        Site                Acadeo-c & (o,oeuosl                       la-ediog             Satff    Protfe-io.al    T-hrlot        _Te  ntro  Assi-stooo             inoest,    Adminto-   Project
Code No. __Peojort Insti t_i2nr          __,_       Placos  _     I        O _  Works  __i3dia   _  Niroi taro_  t9o ent-  ou _dioo   F- ursitore    -lono                Ge  ices        Teornioin   Soerllists   Sahol-eshiPo         Studies    testion        Cost
A - Lurr Second-ry   l-,ols
a)  .   Nlala                                 53600        31,935     5f81.8       _757.I         711. 5      1,L42.8                                     i20.-        312.3                                                                                6,625.4
201     Alto Verpa-, SlA, Prdro C-aho                 320       2,109      40.4          257.8          44.9          81.1              -            _         11.5          21.7               -             -               -             -            -         457.4
202      Chia1tsooe,go, T-eps-                        360       2,267      41.1          263.2         47.7           66.3              -            -         10.9          22.1               -             -               -             -            -         451.3
203    Etirintli, Notv-   Concepcion                  520       2,819       52.1         336.1         62.1          100.0              -            -          11.1         28.0               -             -               -             -            -         589.4
204     Caatsaio,sMirco                               8C0       4,085       69.9         455.9         98.0          155.0              -            -         10.3          37.5               -              _              _             _            _         826.6
205      ouehuehte-ssg,  .Hh-t-osogo                360       2,287      42.7          273.1         47.7           66.3              -            -         11.3          22.9               -             -               -            -             -         464.0
206     Jolapo,  Aslsp.                               520       3,009       53.6         346.3         66.1          113.2             .-            -         10.7          28.7               -              -              -            -             -         618.6
207     Qosoaitesongo, Csatepoqs-                     520       3,009       54.6         352.9         66.1          113.2              -            -         10.9          50.3               -              -              -             -            -         627.0
208     Qss.  Iti.s.sg., Q--salteuso                  000       '.,015      74.1         483.0         98.0          155.0              -            -         10.9          39.8               -             -               -             _            _         860.8
209     Sn  oeas, San MAscss                          520       3,009       56.1         362.08          6.1         113.2              -            -         11.2          32.1               -             -               -                                    6 _  839.5
218      Sas Mo-a.s, Sas Pedro Sacatepoqu-e           520       3,009       56.1         362.8         66.1          113.2              -            -         11.2          30.1               -              -              -             -            -         639.5
211      Sc-hitepeqoez, San Pablo Jc-opilas           360       2,267      41.1          263.2         47.7           66.3              -            -         10.9          22.1               -              -              -             -            -         451.3
2)  Ettesionc                                     64,0      5,247      65.1         619.0         535.3         312.9                                      32.8         50.2                                                                                1,215.3
212     Alto Vee-p-s, Coanb                           240       1,700       21.7         205.6         49.8          127.5              -            -         11.5          16.7                     4-              -                     -            -          32.8
213     Chimolet1 a-g., Chistalo.as.gc                200       1,614       20.5         194.7         44.4           92.7              -            -         10.6          15.8               -              -              -             -            -         378.7
214      Soeto Rosa, Cvilapa                          200        1,933      22.9         218.7         41.1           92.7              -            -          10.7         17.7               -              _              _             _            _         403.8
B - Coohb-ed Tlpper_Loer SeeondseL Schools
1)  New Schools                                 1,805       8,394     155.0       1.,012.5        169.2         203.0                                      20.8         83.2                                                                                1_668,6
221     Oust -mals, Coatosala, Zoca 10                880       3,752       73,2         477.6          61.8          40.6              -            -          10.2         39.3              -               _              _             _            _         702.7
222     S.c.tepeqsss, Antigu.                         925       4,642       81.8         534.9         107.4         167.3              -            -          10.6         43.9              _               -              -             -            -         945.9
2)  Oxtesc8os                                     240       2 773      38.2          340.9         62.2           96.3                                     41.4          29.4                                                                                  618.4
223    PFten, RIsces                                  240       2,773       38.2         340.9          62.2          96.3              -            -         41.4          29.4                      -               -                    -            -         608.4
C - C.-505 F-acilities CenLes                       1_120        9,220     227.3       1,102.6         250.4         529.7                                      33.9         95.5                                                                                2.239.4
231     C ..t.solI,  Zus.emola. osa 2                 480       3,714       83.9         396.0         103.4         203.3              -            _          23.7         35.3                                                                                  8 -  _  _  -  045.6
232     Coatos,la, Ccoeeolo, toes 10                  640       5,514      143.4         706.6         147.0         326.4              -            -          10.2         60.2              -               -              -             -            -       1,393.8
D -   t        o e            ch                      390       9,291      103.5         543.8          58.6          178.9           294.5          i1.4       196.6         79,7               .                                                                 536,7
261     Alto V-rapaz, Cobas                            180      4,290       48.5         250.5          26.7           82.5           1 66,S          37.4       09.6         37.3                                                                                 716.7
242      Sac Llarco, Sas Msarca                       210       5,001       55.0   _     _ 2933         32.4           96.4           160.(          43.7        97.0         42.4       820.0
E - Coral (A+B+G+D)                                 9,790      66,868  1,170.9         7,375.9      1,386.2         7,5"68.5          294.5           81.1      446.4        650.3                             _               -             -                  13,8/3.8
F - Trgining of Teachors 8 Amin, Graft                                                                                171.0                                      -                           594.0              .                                     35.0         800.0
G - Technical dsoltss,oe                             -            _                         _           -               _              _              _          _                                           500.0          450.0                                  950.0
11 - Additiseal Esoiinsscr                           _              _                       - _         -             300.0            _              _          _           _                                 -               - _                     -            300.0
I - Proisoest-et Studies                             _            -         _                                          45.0                                                                                   65.0             -         40.0                       150.0
J- Proect Admiiststi                                 -            -                        _                           -               -              -          -           -                 -               -               -            -        255.0          255.0
K - Co-tinRte-i-                                     _            _        490.86       3,0905         413.1           713.3          123.4           24.2      187.0       179.5            184.8           174.6           139.0       14.6         80.6       5,815.2
Physic-l                                                          117.1           737.6       138,7          149.2            29.5            8.1       44.6          65.1           59.4            56.5            45.0        4.0         29.0        1,483.8
Peiri                                                             373.5  _     2..352.9       224.4          564.1            93.9           186.1     142.4       114.4            125.4           118.1            94.0__10_               51.6       4,331.6
L - Nstal Project  ct                                                   1,661.5        10,466.6      1 ,799.3       3,697.8           417.9          105.3      633.4      829.8             778.8           739.6           589.0       54.6        370.6       22,164.0
M -          Fo-eion Ouch-npe Comoneant                                    814.1        3,767.9        953.7        3,328.0           150.4           55.8      228.0        207.5           156.8           628.6           589.0       11.0          74.6      10,965.4



GUATEMALA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Contingencies Allowances
(Ocetooles 000 = US$ 000)
Profssia.sal          Teacher               Technical Assistance               Pr-inoeat-ot
Site Works           Boildicgs            Poroitore _         Eqip.eet              Srvicets           Training           lpnoiolists       Scholsrohipa          Studies          Adeinistratios                Totals
Local   Forcigi     Local P-t           Lo                              ien   l.ocal   Foreaign ocal  FPreigs   Local F-eelgn   Lo..l   Pereign   Local   Fore4ig    Ll    Foe                             ocal    cei           Total   X of Total
Physical 1ncce..se %        10        10        10         30        10        10        5         5          10        10        10        10        10      10        10         10        10        10         10        10      (9.8)    (8.4)    (9.1)
Price increase    G        29        29        Z9         29        18        18       18        10         16         16        19        20        19      19         19        19        24        25         16        17     25.8)   C22.8')  (24,3)
Total Bone
Project Costs             597.2    573.7   5,194.8  2,920.0   689.6           777.7   298.5   2,686.0   487.7   162.6          475.2   118.8         84.8  4h8.2        -      450.0        32.0       8.8     232.0       58.0   8,091.8  8,237.0 16,328.8          73.7
Physical Incrcese          59.7      57.4      519.5    292.2    69.0          77.8    14.9       134.3    48.8       16.3       47.5    11.9         8.5   48.0        -       45.0         3.2       0.8      23.2        5.8      794.3    689.5  1,483.8          6.7
SUBrOTAL       656.9    631.1   5,714.3   ,214.2   758.6            855.5   313.4   2,820.3   536.5   178.9           522.7   130.7        93.3  528.2        -      495.0        35.2       8.8    255.2       63.8   8,886.1  8,926.5 17,812.6          80.6
Price Is.reane            190.5    183.0   1,657.1    932.1   136.5           154.0    56.4       507.7    85.8    28.6          99.3    26.1        17.7  100.4        -       94.0         8.4       2.2      40.8       10.8   2,292,5  2,038.9   4,331.4        19.6
Total Contingencies       250.2    240.4   2,176.6  1,224.3   205.5           231.8    71.3       642.0   134.6   44.9          146.8    38.0        26.2  148.4        -      139.0        11.6       3.0      64.0       16.6  3,086.8   2,728.4   5,815.2        26.3
Torol Project Conen
With Co-ticge-cies        847.4    814.1   7,371.4  4,146.3   895.1   1,009.5   369.0   3,328.0   622.3   207.5.                622.0   156.8       111.0  628.6         -     589.0        43.6      11.0    296.0        74.6  11,178.6 10,.965.A, 22,144.0    100.0
F-poiet   ond Local
Cnpoo-ot            4      06        49         64        36       47          53       80         30       73       25          88       70         15      85         0      108          88         208      88         20        50.5      49.5      110



I



f   48   ' p?J                                                                   126                                                                   ' \!,7s 15
glaninc and Prwsromdet Oe  X  B4eetLo nd   DBrtture and                                                                                                 o~~4
.~~~~ .  ......  ..   ............     ..  1
Zxlb~ ~ ~ ~~2 bi                                                                         /  h  3l 1   \Tll 
- Zo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 >218     
WEWzLotrto  zlb



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



ANNEX 10
GUATEMALA
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$tOOOs)
FISCAL
YEARS &                            DISBURSEMENTS                         UNDISBURSED
SEMESTERS                SEMI-ANNUAL           CUMULATIVE                   BALANCE
vUS$M      _          US$M       %              US$M        %
1st              0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0             14.5      100.0
1976    2nd              0.2        1.4        0.2       1.4             14.3        98.6
1st              0.6        4.2        0.8       5.5             13.7       94.5
1977    2nd              3.8       26.2        4.6      31.7              9.9       68.3
1st              2.6       17.9        7.2      49.7              7.3       50.3
1978    2nd              2.6       17.9        9.8      67.6              4.7        32.4
lst              2.6       17.9       12.4      85.5              2.1       14.5
1979    2nd              0.9        6.2       13.3      91.7              1.2         8.3
lst              1.2        8.3       14.5    100.0               0.0        0.0
1980    2nd                -         -          -         --
Total                   14.5      100.0



I



FORMAL EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM OF GUATEMALA
1975
SECONDARY
PRF-PRIMARY                            PRIMARY                               BASIC CYCLE                   DIVERSIFIED CYCLE                                     HIGHER
ACADEMIC                                 ARCHITFCTURE AND ENGINEERING
4        5
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER
4 5 
HOME ECONOMICS
PHYSICAL EDUCATION
PHYSICAR EDUCATION                 MEDICAL AND DENTAL SCIENCES
CONVENTIONAL
ACADEMiC                       PRE-VOCATIONAL                          ECONOMIC SCIENCES AND BUSINESS!V
PRE- VOCATIONAL                    INDUSTRIAL ARTS
KEY:                                                                        
AGRICULTURAL                                   SOCIAL SCIENCES1/
Expanded or improved bv prolect                             AGRICULTURAL
These coulses are terminsal. A student who com)[pletes
rone of these is uot lualfied to movep                                                        BILINGUALs
IE .           . to the. n1ex level of study                                                             SECRETARY
XC    Admission by exam nation                                 NDU51 R Al                "   4  E( RETA RY : |:  _              iSECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING AND OTHER?]
I/    Call be five or SIX years
2/    Topology, nu,smqf physrotlreapy, ruirtron,                                                ACCOUNTING
Pharmaceutical sales, diplomacy, rural social vwork5
AGE                  7        8        9        10      11                13       14       15               16       17       18                19       20      21       22       23       24
JOBS AND/OR                        JOBS AND/OR                 JOBS AND/OR                                                   JOBS AND/OR           H
NON-FORMAL                         NON-FORMAL                  NON-FORMAL                                                    NON-FORMAL
TRAINING                           TRAINING                    TRAINING                                                      TRAINING
World 3anrk  15324



I



MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
GUATEMALA
1975
UNESCO  I                   _                   I  N7SC.O          I         I   I  I ''
Vrvee~ ~ ~                 I r     I
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7,,, c0-, ! 1. 1                                        Iu s         
|  E oorv i;1s  <   1                0     <                                          0   t  l  0    t  0           0  < l    S    -0 t;X1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C,,,  , ~  
X XL0^ua@'ltALiel<Lf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~070                     L L,C                                       C,,l,L',L,   ''8. 
Sxcce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ct.,,                                        0,7t de,1 PnEeC y     CErso re            Oft1E    C'e'0CElc,  ''E 70mas 






GUATEMALA
FULL.TIME ENROLLMENT AND POPULATION PYRAMID
1973
AGE
GROUP
POPULATION                                                                                            MALE                                                      FEMALE                                                                                                   TOTAL    LEVEL              OP
GRADE         AGE         (--s1Gl dAGE
18         24         85.300                                                                                                                    8                400                                                                                                                                                      GROUP
17         23         91R60)                                                                                                            =       IO                5000
--    -- --   --     ---   -- .-    ----   ---.---   --     -- .-  - .--   --- -  .. . .. .-   ---   -- -  .. . .. .   --------   --------  
6          22         96.200                                                                                                                    1200              boo
15         21         98,000                                                                                                                  20          100 1-30400                                                                                                                                              >
14         20         100 900                                                                                                                 230                  150
13         10         102,100                                                                                                                4100                  1 GO
12         10          103.RGO                                                                                                           3300                         2600
---  --' ----- --------''--- ---------'--------i--.:.----------                                                          --------------                     ------2 
71         13         106000                                                                                                             500                            3300                                                                                                                      26400 7                   1%
10         10         114000                                                                                                             0000       220                     0
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                 - - -                                     - - - - -   . .     . .    . . .     .  _.-. - - --  - - - -     - - - - - - -    -     - - - - -    --
9          10          121800                                                                                                                          900    22300                                                                                                                                           o
0          14          120,600                                                                                                                        114U0     0                                                                                                                                  638U   >.~        G
4   1r)   145600                   --        ---    -        ~ ~~~  ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~---- ---------------                           362i ----   ----- ---- ----- ---- ........              .... .... ....... ........ ...
7           TS         132900                                                                                                                         030        700                                                                                                                                     j
7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~~                   ~~~ ~~~~   . . . .   . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   - - - - - - - -                          . . . . . .    - - - - -            . . . . . . . . . . . . ...  . .... . . . . .
0         11         140,000                                                                                                                       22300   10400
0           12         141S800                                                                                                                       27900    22700
11)        145,000                                                                                                                       36200    2000U10                                                                                                                                                      64%
-3    Frt rd 9    nplel 15 1.6Q                                                                                                                         1 the nuTlq If 7 e    il  edlCenolPs  :l
I          0           1501400                                                                                                                       0000    5500
7    161.01,01                                                                                                                    15500   93 GO0
110          10             90            00o           70            010           510           40      0                  20             10            0             1            2             30            40            60            60            70           s0o9                       100           110,(
PUll me e,mollmenl                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S..,.,:   1972 C-.s, 1973 Ed-ca-.on  S1a,tn,oC  Rulel
AOP  -PU POL.e,o                                                                                                                                                                                                     03 S,n Ca,101 U--er,ly SIa,sl,-a  RBOWe,n  mls-- oslnn-e-,
F.e19re4enrIIne,l130"'01! le~ -lurlbeol f e 7            4    OdlClOIl0             l
-eld B-f'-15105



4
A
A



GUATEMALA                                       9I.                                           90(
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                 j
NEW  EXTENSIONS
M  E X I C                                                   1
LOWERSECONDARYSCHOOLSM                                                       EX IC O                       
COMBINED UPPER AND LOWER SECONDARY SCRHOOS.                                                                        _.            /
COMMON FACILITIES CENTERS                                                                                         I         '
AG RI CULTU RAL TRAININO SCHOOLS
MAIN ROADS,i
SECONDtARY ROADS                                                                           DSLgu: 
I4I I  RAILROADS            -        j                                                                                     |
*      AIEPORTS                    ! I
--DEEARtTMENT BOUNDARIES 
-.-    INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES                                                      : 
i~~~~~~~~~PnCbIO                                                             I
+0P-o C:b:llos-!
-17-                                                                                                                                 M.kh., L   Pa,,.  MAC   MecOi  B  E  L I Z  E              17-
FLORES S
0 70 40                   60   R 0                                              L,: L,benlad      -Sn F-r,n,-ao
- KLOMETERS                                   .                             1\     0+
D      10    20      30    40      50                                                                                                 i
oMILES      D                                                                                       Si
n~~~  ~~~   ,~~~~                               +                              0+             1~~~~~0
rhrhrr6rlb                                                              SoSoxcSSO 
M E X I C O 0                                                                          X                                               t                           G5/f of
A'             /~~~~-                         --------                                                                                                              Ho,ndaros
.                                                                                                                       I__/_*Hrdy
-16'!-11
*5/                                                              i---"-- 
cL~~~~~~~a /SMetRo loteten 
k    Clh.h. I                                        PUERTO BARRIOS
to=  _ > -.   _ _  -  ~  ,/    ;  2   *  irnto To'.
S.n Fel,pe0        de C-Nt, a            P
l  *    ~~~~~    ~~   ~~   ~~ C~OBAN*_                                 *w              rO          AKE
j   \   L  . tOS:Pedro Cerch:  if /7ARA S                       Morales-  rK
3.         Y            \\ ---      -        j SANTA CRUZ DEL QUICHE
15'                      =     -                                                                                                                                                                15]
SAN MARCOS ~~~ acanepesoec 
\ / X ~OUEZALTE1ANGO   zu-.l -                        Tecpon          -C1UML 
{ ) ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ -                                                                                        N  D  UCO Axt  Rl-ENNc  Ai Sf< JLP    
rUAyr1IIa   Pairoat                  San S / Andre!JoWirrochcsz Alialcin  -                           /                           >            1                                                !
jAZOENANG0               ANT,GHLAN- cC                                 J A /A
Cab:l oblanCo        REIALI-,LLEUS                                                                                                                                                 AMA Al:Ienangod  -  >w}   &    ~-  ~ ~   v   2    -    CUBA C
.p.             L:        r q       i :SCUINTLA                            Clt APA  ZAoz-_                                    >JAAC 
-.        0JJTI~~APA                                                           Car,bhean
MEXICO   '   iSELIZE
.  ,---:  -   L.                  Sea
9    ~ ~ ~ n3~UATEMSALAJHONDURAS
-Ele e IA'                                                  XE                                                                T j        5 ba 14'-      EL SALVADOR  NICARAGUA
PA C/F/C           OCFAN                                                                                                                    Parlcic Orean                       Zanal      C
EL SALVADOR                                         COSTA RICA
912'                                            olo                                        vc  90-                                                                      PANAMA         cao



