CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1212 GU
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 5, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 5, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Ministerio de Educacion" means the Ministry of Educa-
tion of the Borrower;
(b) "Ministerio de Agricultura" means the Ministry of
Agriculture of the Borrower;
(c) "Project Unit" means the unit established and operated
pursuant to Section 5.01(d) of the Loan Agreement dated Decem-
ber 16, 1968 between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter
called the First Education Loan Agreement), within the Borrower's
Ministry of Communications and Public Works, with the duties and
responsibilities indicated in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(d) "First Education Project" means the project described
in Schedule 3 to the First Education Loan Agreement, as amended;


﻿-3-
(e) "Participating Institutions" means one or more public
or private educational institutions, acceptable to the Bank,
assisting the Borrower in carrying out the teacher training pro-
gram included in Part C of the Project; and
(f) "Department of Curriculum Development" means the
I
Direccion de Desarrollo de Curricula established by Resolution
No. 478 of the Ministro de Educacion of the Borrower dated Decem-
ber 18, 1975 and any successor thereto.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million five hundred thousand dollars ($14,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
0s


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eighL and one half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
educational, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bp:k shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a) for the purpose of carrying out Parts A and B of the
Project, continue to operate the Project Unit until the Closing
Date and to provide adequate support staff thereto;
(b) for the purpose of carrying out Parts C through E of
the Project, continue to operate and provide adequate support
staff to the Department of Curriculum Development;
(c) within six months of the date of this Agreement, take
all the necessary steps to: (i) establish and make operative
thereafter a Consejo de Administracion for both institutions
included in Part A(4) of the Project, such ConseJo de Administra-
cion to include representatives of Ministerio de Educacion and
Ministerio de Agricultura and (ii) appoint, and continue to employ
thereafter, a director for said Consejo.


﻿-7-
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts C through E of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) employ
educational experts and specialists whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank; and (ii) assign, for training with such consultants,
such counterpart personnel as shall be required for the execution
of the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall grant all fellowships included in the Project after
consultation with the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in the archi-
tectural design of the buildings and facilities for the educational
institutions included in Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, employ architectural consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all necessary action to
establish, not later than six months from the date of this Agree-
ment, and to maintain and operate thereafter until the Closing
Date, such special technical committees as shall be acceptable
to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, representatives of
Ministerio de Educacion, Ministerio de   ricultura and the Project
Unit, for purposes of (i) analyzing and reviewing architectural
designs, and equipment and furniture lists and vpecifications for


﻿- 8-
the educational institutions included in the Project and (ii)
certifying that such designs, lists and specifications meet the
economic and functional standards and costs and the educational
objectives of each such institution.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for
review, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree the
Borrower shall:
(a) within six months from the date of this Agreement: (i)
complete and put into effect an operational plan satisfactory
to the Bank, including adequate arrangements with the Participating
S


﻿99 -
Institutions and a timetable for the implementation of such plan,
suitable to carry out Part C of the Project; and (ii) put into
effect such plan after consultation with the Bank.
(b) Within one year from the date of this Agreement, (i)
develop and furnish to the Bank for comment a comprehensive long-
term plan for the recruitment, selection, and training of secondary
teachers and administrators with a view to securing appropriate
secondary school staffing and developing a permanent institutional
capacity for both pre-service and in-service training for such
teachers and administrators, and (ii) put into effect such plan
after affording the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment
thereon.
(c) Within one year from the date of this Agreement, furnish
to the Bank for review the detailed curricula for practical sub-
jects to be taught in the educational institutions included in
the Project.
(d) Within two years from the date of this Agreement estab-
lish, after consultation with the Bank and thereafter maintain,
a tracer mechanism to be used in carrying out a systematic follow-
up study of student dropout, graduation and subsequent employment
of students who have attended the educational institutions included
in the Project whether or not they have received further education
or training, affording the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment
on any further changes in such tracer mechanism.


﻿- 10-
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertake3 to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, after consulting with the
Bank on the suitability of the sites selected by the Borrower,
take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) in such sites of
the facilities included in the Project, and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition and before starting construc-
tion on each such site, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take all necessary action
to permit, without interfering with the ordinary use thereof by
students attending the regular classes therein, the free utiliza-
tion of (i) not less than nine schools from among those included
in Part A(1) of the Project, (ii) not less than one school from
among those included in Part A(2) of the Project, and (iii) the
two common facilities centers included in Part A(3) of the Project,
by non-formal education and training agencies of the Borrower.
10


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to provide the institutions included in Part A(4) of the Project
with a student admittance policy in line with the educational
objectives of the Borrower and, to that end, no student shall be
admitted to such institutions (i) who is less than 13 years of age,
and (ii) unless careful and due consideration has been given to
such student's linguistic and socio-economic background.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any ex-
ternal debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if
for any constitutional or other legal reason such provision can-
not be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-13 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consist-
ently maintained sound accounting practices the operations, re-
sources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall provide the educational
institutions included in the Project with the necessary number
of fully qualified and trained teaching and administrative staff
who shall serve therein on a full-time basis and, only when such


﻿- 14-
fully qualified and trained secondary teachers are not available
on such a full-time basis, employ, temporarily, (i) such teachers
on a part-time basis or (ii) less than fully qualified and trained
secondary teachers either on a full-time or a part-time basis.
(b) The Borrower shall take all the necessary steps to give
preference in the employment of teaching and administrative staff
for the institutions included in the Project to graduates of the
training courses included in Part C of the Project.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall operate, or cause the
Participating Institutions to operate, the institutions included
in, or related to, the Project in accordance with appropriate
adminisatrative and educational policies and practices and with
due regard to economy so as to promote the training and other
educational objectives of the Borrower, and shall appropriate
or cause to be appropriated, specific annual budget allocations
for each such educational institution in such amounts as shall be
necessary for such operation.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, equipment
and furniture of the institutions included in the Project to be
adequately inspected and maintained and cause all necessary re-
pairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with
sound administrative and technical standards and (ii) without
limiting the generality of sub-paragraph (i) herein, appropriate
or cause to be appropriated, specific annual budget allocations
for each institution included in the Project which shall amount
to not less than (A) one per cent (1%) of the replacement cost
of each such institution estimated at the end of each fiscal year


﻿-15 -
for the first four calendar years after completion of construction
of each such institution, and (B) one and one half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such replacement cost thereafter.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, before undertaking any
expansion of the institutions included in Part A(4) of the Project,
carry out an evaluation of (a) the effectiveness of the training
programs for, and the operation of, such institutions and (b) the
availability and qualifications of the teachers and administrative
staff for such institutions.


﻿- 16-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the appointment of a director to the Department of
Curriculum Development who shall be, inter alia, responsible for
coordinating between the Department of Curriculum Development and
the Project Unit, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the activ-
ities related to the Project, has been made; and
(b) that the appointment of an officer from the staff of
Ministerio de Agricultura who shall be responsible for coordi-
nating between Ministerio de Agricultura and the Project Unit,
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the activities related to
Part A(4) of the Project, has been made.
Section 5.02. The date May 4, 1976, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministro de Educacion of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Educacion
Palacio Nacional
Guatemala
Republica de Guatemala
Cable address:
MINIEDUCACION
Guatemala, Guatemala
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
IMTBAFRAD
k 3,hington, D.C.


﻿- 18-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Julio Asensio-Wunderlich
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gunter K. Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of amounts
of such proceeds to each Category and the percentage of eligible
expenditures to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works and                              45%
Professional Fees
(a) Parts A(1),            4,800,000
A(3) and A(4)
of the Pro-
ject
(b) Part A(2) of             900,000
the Project
(2)  Furniture                                    100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of total ex-
penditures for
locally procured
goods
(a) Parts A(1), A(3)       1,170,000
and A(4) of the
Project
(b) Part A(2) of the         230,000
Project


﻿- 20-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3) Equipment                                    100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of total ex-
penditures for
locally procured
goods
(a) Parts A(1), A(3),     2,260,000
A(4) and C of
the Project
(b) Part A(2) of the        310,000
Project
(c) Part B of the            300,000
Project
(4) Technical Assistance                         100%
(a) Specialist              500,000
Services
(b) Fellowships             450,000
(5) Training of Teachers         630,000         100%
and Administrative
Staff
(6) Project Administra-
tion
Salaries of follow-          160,000         100%
ing Project Unit
staff: Project Di-
rector, engineer,
architect, accoun-
tant and procure-
ment officer.


﻿-21-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7) Studies                       150,000         100%
(8) Unallocated                 2,640,000
TOTAL      14,500,000


﻿- 22 -
2.   For the purposes of this 3chedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals may be made in respect of professional fees under Cate-
gories (1), (4) and (6) on account of expenditures incurred after
July 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $300,000; and
(b) to be financed under:


﻿-23 -
(i)       Categories (1)(b), (2)(b) and (3)(b), until the
Bank has been furnished with curricula, satisfactory
to the Bank, for the schools included in Part A(2)
of the Project; and
(ii)      Category (3) (c), until the Bank has been furnished
with (A) in respect of expenditures for the second-
ary schools included in Part B of the Project,
curricula for the upper secondary level, satisfactory
to the Bank, to be applied in such schools; and (B)
in respect of expenditures for the Agricultural
Technical Institute Barcenas (ITA) included in
Part B of the Project, with a phased program,
satisfactory to the Bank, to train and upgrade the
teaching staff of such Institute.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to fi-
nance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet
the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿-24-
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
turer for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agree-
ment, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan
as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in (i)
improving and expanding pre-vocational instruction for both lower
and upper secondary education with a view to providing an output
of graduates more in keeping with the Borrower's economic develop-
ment needs; (ii) alleviating critical shortages of qualified sec-
ondary teachers and school administrators; (iii) improving agricul-
tural education; and (iv) providing for the multiple use of educa-
tional facilities by both formal and non-formal education and
training agencies of the Borrower.
The Project includes:
Part A:
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of eleven new
lower secondary schools (grades 7-9) and extension of
three existing lower secondary schools (grades 7-9),
substantially as detailed in paragraph A of the Exhibit
to this Schedule (hereinafter called "the Exhibit").
(2) Construction, furnishing and equipping of two combined
upper and lower secondary schools (grades 7-12) and
extension of one existing combined upper and lower
secondary school (grades 7-12) substantially as detailed
in paragraph B of the Exhibit.


﻿-26-
(3)  Construction, furnishing and equipping of two comnon
facilities centers, substantially as detailed in paragraph
C of the Exhibit.
(4) Construction, furnishing and equipping of two agricultural
training schools (Escuelas de Formacion Agricola) substan-
tially as detailed in paragraph D of the Exhibit.
Part B:
Supplementing the equipping of seven secondary schools included
in the First Education Project and of the Agricultural Tech-
nical Institute Barcenas (ITA).
Part C:
Training of about 600 teachers, and of about 100 administrators,
supervisors and coordinators of institutions included in the
Project and in the First Education Project.
Part D:
Improvement of teacher training, educational management,
production of educational materials and curriculum development,
through provision of expert and specialist services and fel-
lowships all as substantially detailed in paragraph E of the
Exhibit.


﻿-27-
Part E:
Studies for (i) mapping existing educational resources, (ii)
preparation of a pre-investment program aiming at the physical
extension and qualitative improvement of the Borrower's educa-
tional system and (iii) setting up a tracer mechanism with a
view to accomplishing the system set out in Section 3.08(d)
of this Agreement.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿- 28 -
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
A.   List of Schools included in Part A(1) of the Project*, includ-
ing approximate location, construction area and number of student
places for each school:
Approximate Number
2Approximate Size       of Student
Location                      M  of Construction         Places
1.   Alta Verapaz -
San Pedro Carcha              2,100                  320
2.   Chimaltenango, Tecpan         2,300                  360
3.   Escuintla, Nueva
Concepcion                    2,800                  520
4.   Guatemala, Mixco              4,100                  800
5.   Huehuetenango,
Huehuetenango                 2,300                  360
6.   Jalapa, Jalapa                3,000                  520
7.   Quezaltenango, Coatepeque     3,000                  520
8.   Quezaltenango,
Quezaltenango                 4,100                  800
9.   San Marcos, San Pedro
Sacatepequez                  3,000                  520
10. San Marcos, San Marcos         3,000                  520
11. Suchitepequez, San Pablo
Jocopilas                     2,300                  360
*    All new schools except where the asterisk indicates extension
of an already existing school.


﻿-29-
Approximate Number
Approximate Size       of Student
Location                      M2 of Construction         Places
12. Alta Verapaz, Coban*           1,700                  240
13. Chimaltenango,
Chimaltenango*                1,600                  200
14. Santa Rosa, Cuilapa*           1,900                  200
Schools indicated by numbers 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 12
above will be utilized in accordance with Section 3.11 of this
Agreement.
*    All new schools except where the asterisk indicates extension
of an already existing school.


﻿-30                                      0
B.   List of Schools included in Part A(2) of the Project*, includ-
ing approximate location, construction area and number of student
places for each school:
Approximate Number
Approximate Size        of Student
Location                 M2 of Construction        Places
15. Guatemala, Guatemala
Zona 10                  3,800                 880
16. Sacatepequez,
Antigua                  4,600                 920
17. Peten, Flores*            2,800                 240
The school indicated by number 16 above will be utilized
in accordance with Section 3.11 of this Agreement.
*    All new schools except where the asterisk indicates extension
of an already existing school.
C.   Common facilities centers under Part A(3) of the Project,
including approximate location, construction area and student
places are listed below. The main purpose of the centers will be
the provision of workshops for practical subjects and laboratories
for existing lower secondary schools with inadequate facilities
therefor:
Approximate Number
Approximate Size        of Student
Location                 M2 of Construction        Places
18. Guatemala, Guatemala
Zona 2                   3,700                 480
19. Guatemala, Guatemala
Zona 10                  5,500                 640


﻿-31
D.   Agricultural training schools under Part A(4) of the Project
including regions where they will be located, construction area
and student places are listed below. The main purpose of these
schools will be the preparation of students at the post-primary
or equivalent level to perform direct functions in the Borrower's
agricultural development through (i) employment in the public or
private sector or (ii) self employment on farms.
Approximate Number
Approximate Size        of Student
Location                 M2 of Construction        Places
20. Western Highlands
region                   1,300                 210
21. North region              1,100                 180
The approximate number of student places for the school indi-
cated by number 20 above includes 30 places for purposes of non-
formal education and training.
E.   To attain the goals indicated in Part D of the Project, the
Borrower will use about 11 man-years of expert and specialist
services and about 45 man-years of fellowships abroad in the
fields and for such a period of time as approximately are indicated
below:


﻿- 32                                    0
Aggregate
Man-Years
Teacher training and school management             2-1/2
Commercial, agricultural, industrial
and home economics education                  4
Educational management                             2
Improvement of educational materials
and of procurement                             1-1/2
Development of non-formal education                 1
Fellowships
Upgrading of teacher-trainers in
agricultural, industrial, commercial
and home economics education                 31
Curriculum development and educational
management                                   10
Upgrading of directors of institutions
included in the Project                       4


﻿-33-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Pyment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 1986                                       140,000
December 15, 1986                                   150,000
June 15, 1987                                       155,000
December 15, 1987                                   165,000
June 15, 1988                                       170,000
December 15, 1988                                  175,000
June 15, 1989                                       185,000
December 15, 1989                                   195,000
June 15, 1990                                      200,000
December 15, 1990                                  210,000
June 15, 1991                                      215,000
December 15, 1991                                  230,000
June 13, 1992                                      235,000
December 15, 1992                                  245,000
June 15, 1993                                      260,000
December 15, 1993                                  265,000
June 15, 1994                                      280,000
December 15, 1994                                  295,000
June 15, 1995                                       305,000
December 15, 1995                                  315,000
June 15, 1996                                      330,000
December 15, 1996                                  345,000
June 15, 1997                                       360,000
December 15, 1997                                  375,000
June 15, 1998                                       390,000
December 15, 1998                                  405,000
June 15, 1999                                      425,000
December 15, 1999                                  440,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 34 -
Payment of Princi-pal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 2000                                      460,000
December 15, 2000                                  485,000
June 15, 2001                                      500,000
December 15, 2001                                  520,000
June 15, 2002                                      545,000
December 15, 2002                                  570,000
June 15, 2003                                      590,000
December 15, 2003                                  615,000
June 15, 2004                                      645,000
December 15, 2004                                  670,000
June 15, 2005                                       700,000
December 15, 2005                                  740,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 35 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than four years
before maturity                              1%
More than four years but not
more than eight years
before maturity                          2-1/4%
More than eight years but not
more than fourteen years
before maturity                              4%
More than fourteen years but not
more than twenty years
before maturity                          5-1/2%
More than twenty years but not
more than twenty-six years
before maturity                          7-1/4%
More than twenty-six years but
not more than twenty-eight
years before maturity                        8%
More than twenty-eight years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 36                                   0
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods, works and services
shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
(b) Furniture and equipment under Parts A and B of the Proj-
ect shall be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as
shall be consistent with appropriate technical and procurement
practices. Whenever possible each bid package for such items shall
be for not less than the equivalent of $25,000.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts under Part A of the Project shall be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding locally advertised in
accordance with procedures which shall be acceptable to the Bank.
01


﻿-37-
2.   Furniture and equipment under Parts A and B of the Project
which cannot be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or more may be procured in accordance with
the Borrower's regular procedures, provided that the aggregate
cost of the furniture and equipment so procured shall not exceed
the equivalent of $450,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids; Preference for
Manufacturers Established in the territories of the
Central American Common Market
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods:
(i)       bidders shall be required to state in their bid the
c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods;
(ii)      customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-
supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii)     the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
2.   Bids shall be compared in accordance with the following rules:


﻿-38                                     0
(a) the term "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted
by a manufacturer established in the territories of the Central
American Common Market for goods manufactured or processed to a
substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Bank) in such
territories; any other bid will be deemed to be a "Non-Central
American Bid";
(b) the bid price under a Central American Bid will be the
sum of the following amounts:
(i)       the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)      freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the site designated in the specifi-
cations; and
(c) for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American
Bid with any Central American Bid, the price under a Non-Central
American Bid will be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)       the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(ii)      insurance costs to the port of entry;
(iii)     half the amount of any taxes on the importation
of such goods into the territories of the Borrower
which generally apply to non-exempt importers, or
15% of the amounts specified in (i) and (ii) above,
whichever shall be the lower; and


﻿-39-
(iv)      freight insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods from the port of entry to the site de-
signated in the specifications.
3.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the margin of
preference to be granted.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
cedure as the Bank shall reaSonably request. The list of prequali-
fied future bidders, together with a statement of their qualifica-
tions and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank
for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifica-
tions in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to civil work contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and to furniture and equipment
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more:


﻿- 40                                     0
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report, by the Project Unit, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommenda-
tions for award of the said Project Unit and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 41 -
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 42 -                                   0
SCHEDULE 5
The Project Unit
1.   The Project Unit shall operate under the guidance of and fol-
lowing the policies set by the Ministers of Education, Agriculture
and Communications and Public Works and of the Secretary General
of the National Planning Council. The Director of the Project Unit
shall coordinate all activities with the Director of the Department
of Cirriculum Development or his representative and with the coor-
dinator appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture in accordance with
Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement.
2.   The Project Unit shall be responsible for the technical, physi-
cal and administrative execution of the Project in coordination
with the Borrower's agencies involved in the Project. It shall,
inter alia:
(a) make the necessary arrangements for the selection of
architectural consultants and other specialists, establish the
terms of reference for the contracts with such consultants and
specialists and administer such contracts;
(b) elaborate a comprehensive Project implementation chart
based on the critical path method or other method satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank setting forth a planned timetable
of coordinated activities and responsibilities on which the exe-
cution of all aspects of the Project will be based and the progress
of Project implementation will be monitored;


﻿-43 -
(c) prepare briefs for the architectural consultants relating
educational specifications to realistic costing and functional de-
sign, and providing information to the architectural consultants;
(d) request the analysis and review by, and obtain the cer-
tification of, the special technical committees referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement of plans, reports, equipment and
furniture lists and specifications and other material submitted
by consultants and experts and ascertain that such plans, reports,
equipment and furniture lists and specifications and other material
meet the economic and functional standards and costs and the educa-
tional objectives of the Project:
(e) prepare, with the help of such special technical commit-
O   tees, lists of all instructional equipment, books and furniture
required by the educational and training institutions included
in the Project, together with specifications and the estimated
unit price and total cost of each item;
(f) expedite the award of contracts relating to the Project;
(g) prepare detailed reports on the evaluation and comparison
of bids received and make recommendations for the award of contracts
for which such bids have been received;
(h) ensure the regular inspection of all construction works;
(i) provide liaison with the Bank and with all appropriate
authorities of the Borrower in matters relating to the implementa'-
tion of the Project;


﻿- 44-
(j) set up an accounting system, keep Project accounts and
prepare periodic financial statements, as required to comply with
the provisions of the Loan Agreement;
(k) prepare applications for withdrawals from the Loan
Account; and
(1) evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare quar-
terly progress reports for the Bank.


