LOAN NUMBER 2120 IND
Loan Agreement
(National Fertilizer Distribution Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2120 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of part of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the
Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out partly by the Borrower
and partly, with the Borrower's assistance, by P.T. PUPUK SRIWID-
JAJA (hereinafter called PUSRI) a public enterprise limited
by shares (perseroan terbatas) established and operating under
the Laws of the Borrower, and the Borrower will make available to
PUSRI part of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and PUSRI;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and PUSRI of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b) "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and PUSRI pursuant to Section 3.01 (d)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Financing Agreement;
(c) "PJKA" means Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api, the Bor-
rower's state railway established and operating under the laws of
the Borrower;
(d) "DGSC" means the Directorate General of Sea Communi-
cations of the Borrower's Ministry of Communications;
(e) "Rupiah" and "Rp" mean Rupiah in the currency of the
Borrower; and
(f) "Consultants Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-six million dollars ($66,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the


﻿-3-
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A.3 (b)
and A.5 (b) (ii) of the Project through PJKA with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financing, engineering and railway practices, and shall provide to
PJKA, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project
through DGSC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and maritime practices
and shall provide to DGSC, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause PUSRI to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall


﻿-4-
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable PUSRI to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(d) The Borrower shall make available to PUSRI the funds
required by PUSRI for carrying out Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 (a), A.4,
A.5 (a) and A.5 (b) (i) of the Project, under a financing agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and PUSRI, under
terms and conditions which are satisfactory to the Bank.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Financing
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause PJKA to complete Part A.5 (b) (ii) of the
Project by June 30, 1983.
Section 3.03. In order to assist DGSC in carrying out Part B
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause DGSC to employ port,
maritime and engineering consultants whose selection, qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the principles and
procedures described in the Consultants Guidelines.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause PUSRI and PJKA to
establish and thereafter maintain arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank for the proper operation and maintenance of PUSRI's railway
stock by PJKA.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Part A.3 (b) and Part B of
the Project and the operation and maintenance of the equipment and
facilities provided thereunder:
(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
to be used exclusively for the Project;
(b) The Borrower shall through DGSC furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,


﻿- 5 -
reports and work and procurement schedules for its activities
under the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request;
(c) The Borrower through PJKA and DGSC, to the extent of
their respective activities under the Project: (i) shall maintain
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and serv'ces used to
carry out the Project, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, including but not
limited to the types of information specified in paragraph (b) of
this Section for their respective activities under the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the.Loan and the services
financed out of such proceeds; and
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower through DGSC shall prepare and furnish
to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution of Part B of the
Project, the cost and the benefits to be derived from Part B, the
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause PJKA to carry out Part
A.3 (b) of the Project in accordance with a detailed construction
schedule acceptable to the Bank. At least every six months, the
Borrower and the Bank shall consult with each other on the pro-
gress of Part A.3 (b) of the Project with a view to determining
what steps, if any, may be taken to improve such progress and the
Borrower shall take all steps as may be necessary or desirable to
achieve timely completion of that Part of the Project.
Section 3.07. Upon the award of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defiln'ed), as security for
any external debt, which will or migiil rcsult in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such ex'ernal debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its administrative subdivisions, the Borrower
shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision
thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for
the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabiliza-
tion fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with


﻿-7-
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part B of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out that Part of the Project.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Section 4.02 (a), the Borrower shall cause DGSC to maintain
separate accounts in respect of expenditures for Part B of the
Project.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning-said separate accounts, records and expenditures and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project. Without limitation to the
foregoing, the Borrower shall cause DGSC to make available to
PUSRI in a timely fashion land suitable for: (i) the site of the
proposed bulk urea reception and bagging station at Meneng in-
cluded in Part A.2 of the Project; and (ii) the sites and access
for the piers to be used for the unloading of urea which piers
shall be for the sole use of PUSRI at Meneng and Cilacap.
Section 4.04. The Borrower through PJKA and in close coopera-
tion with PUSRI shall improve the operation of fertilizer block
trains in accordance with performance indicators agreed with the
Bank. Such performance indicators shall, inter alia, provide for
a specific monthly average turnaround time of such block trains
from each major loading point. If the improvements provided for in
the performance indicators are not effected by the time Part A.5
(b) (ii) of the Project is completed, the Borrower through PJKA
and PUSRI and the Bank shall promptly review the block train
operations and, taking into account the findings and recommenda-
tions of the consultants under Part A.5 (b) (ii) of the Project,


﻿-8-
shall agree upon the action to be taken to improve block train
operations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause PJKA, not later than
June 30, 1984, to make available at all times sufficient mainline
and shunting locomotives to ensure efficient fertilizer distribu-
tion operations on the part of VUSRI.
Section 4.06. During any period in which the sale and distri-
bution of fertilizer in Indonesia is controlled by the Borrower,
or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, the Borrower shall
not take any action with respect to fertilizer sold in Indonesia
which would prevent PUSRI, operating efficiently, from earning a
reasonable return, after taxes, on its assets (except fixed assets
not yet in service).
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) PUSRI shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of PUSRI under the Project Agreement;
(b) any provision of PUSRI's charter dated January 3, 1970,
as amended through October 5, 1981, shall have been amended or
abrogated without the prior approval of the Bank;
(c) PUSRI shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PUSRI
or by others whereby any of the property of PUSRI shall or may be
distributed among its creditors;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PUSRI or for the suspension of PUSRI's operations or for
the transfer of a major portion of PUSRI's assets to another
entity without the prior approval of the Bank; and
(e) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that PURSI will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and PUSRI; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) or (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of PUSRI have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(b) the execution and delivery of the Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and PUSRI, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, PUSRI,
and is legally binding upon PUSRI in accordance with its terms;
and
(b) that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and PUSRI, respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and PUSRI in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.03. The date    '        e 9     , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Sec on 2.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                  DJMLN JKT   45799
Jakarta                           DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT  44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
6414 5 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Civil works -              19,000,000        100%
Piers and Bagging
Station
(2) Equipment                  15,000,000        100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
for equipment
manufactured
locally; 75% of
local expendi-
tures for im-
ported equip-
ment procured
locally
(3) Consultants'               20,000,000        100%
Services
(4) Unallocated                12,000,000
TOTAL         $66,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,


﻿- 13 -
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement. However, withdrawals
may be made in respect of payments made after the date of this
Agreement under such contracts awarded prior to the date of this
Agreement as shall have been approved by the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to expand PUSRI's fertilizer distri-
bution system and to provide consultant services and technical
assistance for the Borrower's maritime sector. The Project con-
sists of the following parts:
Part A:   Fertilizer Distribution
Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 (a), A.4, A.5 (a) and A.5 (b) (i) of
the Project shall be carried out by PUSRI and Parts A.3 (b) and
A.5 (b) (ii) of the Project shall be carried out by PJKA.
1.   Ships
(a) Acquisition of three shallow-draft self-unloading
ships of about 7,500 deadweight tons (dwt) each,
similar in design to PUSRI's existing bulk ships,
and capable of cargo carriage of fertilizers
in bulk;
(b) Acquisition of one ship of about 4,500 dwt (5,600
cubic meters) for the carriage of refrigerated
ammonia; and
(c) Improvement of the loading and unloading ability
aboard PUSRI's existing bulk ships.
2.   Bulk Reception and Bagging Facilities and Pier
(a) Construction of a bulk urea reception and bagging
station at Meneng, East Java, with storage for
about 25,000 tons of bulk urea and 35,000 tons of
bagged urea and capable initially of bagging
750,000 tons of fertilizer per year (tpy) to be
expanded to about 1 million tpy;
(b) Expansion and improvement of the existing urea
bagging and handling facilities at Belawan,
Sumatera; and
(c) Design and construction of a special urea unloading
pier at each of the ports of Meneng and Cilacap,
Java.


﻿3.   Inland Transportation
(a) Acquisition by PUSRI of about 200 railway freight
cars, of about 30 tons capacity each, specially
designed to carry bagged fertilizer; and
(b) Design and construction of about 21 km of railway
line extension between the bulk urea reception and
bagging station at Meneng and Kabat, linking the
rail-head at Banjuwangi to Meneng, East Java.
4.   Spare Parts
Acquisition of spare parts, as agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, for the ships, railway freight
cars and other facilities, including the facilities to
be provided under the Project, used in PUSRI's ferti-
lizer distribution system.
5.   Technical Assistance
(a) Design, procurement and construction supervision of
the ships, and of the bulk reception and bagging
facilities and piers, through technical assistance;
and
(b) Technical assistance for the carrying out of the
following studies: (i) to update forecasts of
fertilizer use and consumption and to study needed
fertilizer distribution facilities and methods to
increase peak storage capacity; and (ii) to assess
the needs for additional investment and operational
improvements required for expanded use of block
trains for transport of btlk products.
Part B:   Port Master Plans and Detailed Engineering
Part B of the Project shall be executed by DGSC.
1*   Preparation of port master plans and detailed engineer-
ing of works; and


﻿」


﻿17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Paymeat Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1987
through  April 15, 2002                    21,2003,000
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.75%
before maturity
More than three years but                             3.50%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                               6.40%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                            9.30%
not more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but                          10.45%
not more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                             11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward or
cause to be prepared and forwarded to the Bank as soon as possi-
ble, and, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, in any event not
later than'60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the goods to be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding and for contracts for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more included in
Part A of the Project shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,


﻿- 20 -
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Republic of Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Republic of Indonesia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
(or, in the case of goods procured by PUSRI, to the
satisfaction of PUSRI) and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 21 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Frocurement Procedures
1.   Spare parts shall be procured on the basis of prices
negotiated after solicitation of quotations from a list of sup-
pliers.
2.   Items estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each shall be purchased from qualified suppliers on the basis of
the Borrower's procedures in effect as of the date of this
Agreement.
3.   Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis
of the Borrower's procedures for such contracting in effect as the
date of this Agreement.
4.   Before purchasing any items under the procedures set
forth in paragraph C.1 and C.2 hereof, the concurrence of the
Bank shall be obtained for the items so to be procured and the
suppliers to be approached for such items.
D.   Review of Produrement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of


﻿- 22 -
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to: (i) any contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or more; and (ii) any con-
tract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Bank, for its comments, the text of
the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make or cause to
be made such modifications in the said documents or procedures as
the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank or cause the Bank to be informed of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower or PUSRI
(in the case of procurement by PUSRI) and state the r' asons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 23 -
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the Bank shall be furnished, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, with two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower or PUSRI (in the
case of procurement by PUSRI) and state the reasons for such
determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Bank shall be informed
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform the Borrower or PUSRI (in the case of
procurement by PUSRI) and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         Sday of        198
FOR SECRETARY


