Report No. PIC4614
Project Name                Mongolia-Banking, Enterprise and Legal (@)
Technical Assistance Credit (BELTAC)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Financial Sector Development
Project ID                       MNPE47683
Borrower                         Mongolia
Implementing Agencies            Trade and Development Bank (T&D Bank)
State Property Committee (SPC)
Ministry of Justice (MOJ)
Appraisal Date                   February, 1997
Board Date                       May 1, 1997
Date PID revised                 March 25, 1997
Recent Economic Developments
1.      Over the past six years, Mongolia has made considerable
progress in transforming its economy into a market system. The
country was plunged into economic turmoil in 1990 when the
collapsing Soviet Union withdrew its subsidies and the CMEA trading
and payments system disintegrated. In response, the Government
embarked on a program of economic stabilization and structural
reform, and implemented an impressive range of measures to expand
the scope of market transactions. These included price and trade
liberalization, a mass privatization program, establishment of a
two-tier banking system, and enactment of new laws and regulations
favorable to private economic participation. After four years of
decline, Mongolia succeeded in reducing inflation and restoring
economic growth. The growth was led by copper exports and increased
agroindustry and service sector activities. During 1996, there were
some setbacks in this recovery process, attributable largely to the
growing crisis in the financial sector, the destruction of large
areas of pasture land, a 25 percent decline in copper prices and 10
percent decline in cashmere prices. The Government of Prime
Minister Enkhsaikhan, elected in June 1996, has stated its
commitment to more vigorous structural reforms, and has initiated a
new wave of fiscal reforms, commercial bank restructuring, price
deregulation and cash privatization of state-owned entities. The
authorities will continue the process of strengthening Mongolia's
legal system with a particular emphasis on the application and
enforcement of laws and regulations, and on dispute settlement
mechanisms.
Sector Background and Government's Reform Strategy
2       The Banking Sector. Mongolia's financial system, in its
current form, is ill-equipped to serve the emerging market economy.
Commercial banks have become insolvent and illiquid, due to a
legacy of government intervention in credit allocation, poor
commercial banking skills, non-credit worthy borrowers and weak



management. The banking system is unable to offer effective
financial intermediation, or impose financial discipline on its
clients, partly because many of its largest clients are non-viable
or viable but loss-making enterprises which consistently fail to
service their debts. Non-performing loans exceed 40 percent of the
consolidated portfolio. The system deteriorated further in 1996,
with the collapse of a small private bank and the closure of two
large banks that held approximately 50 percent of total deposits in
the country. A further two large banks are extremely fragile, and
public confidence in the banking system has diminished
considerably. A radical bank restructuring strategy has been
developed by the Mongolian authorities. The core steps which the
Government has completed or is undertaking include: placing deeply
insolvement banks into receivership and creating successor
institutions; issuing interest-bearing Government bonds to
commercial banks to compensate them for inherited and directed
loans; agreeing on action plans for rehabilitation of the two other
large banks; establishing a central register of defaulting
borrowers, prohibiting commercial banks from extending fresh credit
to defaulters, and requiring banks to adopt vigorous loan recovery
measures; and auditing the financial statements of each of the
three remaining large banks.
3.      The Enterprise Sector. Mongolia's enterprises, in turn, face
a variety of problems in conducting business, ranging from
liquidity shortages and limited access to long-term credit, to
diminishing markets and acute skills shortages at the micro-level.
These problems affect both state-owned and privately-owned
entities. Improved productivity, and profitability, remain elusive
goals, particularly in the manufacturing sector. The Government has
undertaken some reforms in the enterprise sector, consisting
primarily of voucher privatization, and establishment of a Stock
Exchange. Privatization has resulted in establishment and
recognition of corporate structures and transfer of legal
ownership. It has also stimulated entrepreneurial activity,
particularly in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises.
However, it has not led to significant changes in competitive
behavior, operational structure, or financial management of large
enterprises. The Government's medium-term enterprise reform agenda
is focusing on: (a) policy liberalization, including improvement of
internal and external incentives, to accelerate the privatization
process; (b) general hardening of budget constraints, in
particular, cutting off bank loans to defaulters and ensuring
budgetary loans are given at market rates; and (c) developing
enterprise infrastructure and management skills, such as business
planning, cost accounting and marketing. As a first step, the
Government has consolidated management of residual state assets
under a State Property Committee (SPC). It is now seeking to
accelerate the cash privatization program and divest most "non-
strategic" public enterprises in 1997-2000.
4.      The Legal Environment. Many of the structural and operational
deficiencies in the banking and enterprise sectors have been
aggravated by weaknesses in the legal and regulatory framework.
Since 1991, Mongolia has enacted an impressive set of laws and
-2 -



regulations related to the operation of the emerging market
economy. While certain gaps remain to be filled, the application of
the new laws and regulations and their interpretation by the courts
remain problematic, largely because of inadequate institutional
capacity. As a result, banks and enterprises are seriously hampered
by difficulties in such areas as contract enforcement (including
loan collection), secured transactions, and the failure of
bankruptcy procedures. The Government is committed to further legal
reforms. Efforts are underway to revise legislation in such areas
as secured transactions, property registration, bankruptcy and
general contract law. Whilst legislative reform continues at full
speed, Mongolia will, in view of enforcement problems highlighted
above, have to focus increasingly on the difficult task of making
its laws work in practice. This will require substantial and long-
term investments in support institutions like the judiciary,
Ministry of Justice (MOJ), property registries and legal education,
as well as the dissemination of legal information, including
legislation and case law.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
5.      Financial sector reform and creating an enabling environment
for private enterprise development are cornerstones of IDA's
country assistance strategy (CAS), discussed by the Executive
Directors on July 6, 1995. In the short term, the strategy is to
support the Government's macroeconomic management capability
through technical assistance and continued policy dialogue; in the
medium term, the strategy is to support the development of private
activities and financial institutions as well as to help implement
the Government's poverty alleviation program; and, in the long
term, the strategy is to help remove infrastructural bottlenecks
for sustainable growth. The CAS also outlines the institutional and
structural reform measures that are needed in the country,
especially in the banking and enterprise sectors.
Links with Other IDA Operations
6.      IDA has prepared a Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment
Credit (BESAC), scheduled for Board presentation on May 1, 1997, in
parallel with BELTAC. BESAC will be disbursed in a single tranche
to support the Government's reform efforts in these sectors,
focusing primarily on debt workout and asset recovery. In
particular, BESAC will support the Government's efforts to recover
outstanding loans from those enterprises that most adversely
influence the banking system, that is, the six largest defaulters
to commercial banks. BESAC will support the establishment of a Debt
Workout Unit (DWU) in the Trade and Development Bank (T&D Bank) to
recover outstanding loans from its four largest privately-owned
defaulters. It will support the SPC's efforts to assess financial
viability and initiate restructuring or liquidation of the two
largest publicly-owned defaulters to the banking system. BESAC will
be implemented in parallel with an Asian Development Bank (ADB)
Financial Sector Program Loan (FSPL), approved in December 1996,
and with an IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility currently
under negotiation. BELTAC will be piggy-backed to the BESAC
-3 -



operation to support institutions implementing the policy reforms
agreed under the BESAC.
Project Objectives
7.      The objectives of the BELTAC Project are two-fold. The
immediate objective is to facilitate implementation of the proposed
BESAC Project, in particular the debt workout and loan recovery
elements of the Government's reform program. This will create a
demonstration effect. The BELTAC will finance advisory support,
training, and where appropriate, materials and equipment for: (a)
the Trade and Development Bank (T&D Bank); a newly-established Debt
Workout Unit (DWU) in T&D Bank; (b) the State Property Committee
(SPC); participating enterprises; and (c) legal support
institutions, including, MOJ, the judiciary and the agency
responsible for property registration. The longer-term objective is
to promote institutional and skills development, so that the
reforms implemented under BESAC can be sustained.
Co-ordination with Other Donor Assistance
8.      The objectives of the BELTAC must be considered within a
broader framework of technical assistance (TA) requirements for
Mongolia's institutions. The total TA requirements for financial
sector, enterprise and legal reform are considerable and clearly
beyond the scope of the proposed Project. Consequently, the
proposed set of TA will be coordinated with other donor-financed TA
to enhance synergy, taking due account of the Government's
absorptive capacity. Several donor organizations, including NGOs,
are providing TA in these areas, in particular: IMF, ADB, Germany,
through KFW (Kreditanstalt far Wiederaufbau) and GTZ (Gesellschaft
far Technische Zusammenarbeit), European Union/TACIS, Japan (OECF)
and the US (USAID). ADB is taking the lead in providing TA to the
central and commercial banks to facilitate bottom-up bank
restructuring. Project preparation therefore required the
development of a TA road map in these areas.
Project Description
9.      The Project will finance high-priority TA, consisting of
resident advisors, short- and long-term consultants, selected
training programs and equipment, in areas not fully covered by
existing and prospective TA projects in Mongolia. The total project
costs is US$2.3 million, of which US$2 million will be financed by
IDA, and the balance by the Government. The three proposed
components are as follows:
A. Commercial Bank Institutional Development.
This component will finance the twinning, over an 18 month to 2
year period of the Trade and Development Bank with a reputable
foreign bank, with a provision for a possible continuing business
relationship thereafter. The foreign bank would provide long-term
advisory services and on-the-job training in several areas.
Experience from other countries has shown that twinning
- 4 -



arrangements are widely considered the most efficient and cost
effective way to develop long-term institutional development
programs in the banking sector. Viable commercial banks in Mongolia
will require long-term assistance in designing and implementing
business plans and operational strategies, defining the roles and
accountability of staff, and workflow, beyond crisis management.
B.      Public Enterprise Financial Restructuring.
This component will finance short-term advisors to assist the State
Property Committee, as the representative of Government ownership
of public enterprises, in carrying out financial viability
assessments for the two largest public enterprise defaulters to
commercial banks. These companies also represent a significant
fiscal burden on the Government. The advisors will work with SPC,
and creditor commercial banks, to review the credit files, and
financial condition of these enterprises. On this basis, they will
make recommendations for restructuring or liquidation, and develop
a schedule for repayment of outstanding loans. The aim is to
demonstrate options and strategies for enterprise restructuring or
liquidation to SPC and to private enterprise managers.
C.      Legal Reform Program
The objective of this component is to support further development
of the legal framework for the banking and enterprise sectors, with
a particular emphasis on filling critical legislative gaps and
improving the application and enforcement of Mongolia's laws.
Developing this framework will provide the necessary foundation for
policy reforms agreed under the BESAC and ADB-FSPL programs, as
well as building the capacity of participating legal and judicial
institutions. Specific legal reforms will also contribute directly
to improving the operations of commercial banks and facilitating
commercial transactions. This component is based on a pipeline of
sub-projects. These consist of one or more interventions selected
from the following modules: (i) diagnostic study, (ii) revision of
legislation and/or regulations; (iii) training; (iv) equipment
(including systems and network development); and (v) dissemination
of legal information (regarding, for instance, legislation and case
law). The sub-projects were prepared by local working groups on the
basis of extensive consultations with relevant stakeholders. The
initial pipeline of subprojects covers: (a) execution of judgments:
strengthening of the Bailiffs' office through analysis of its
operations and training; (b) collateral registration: establishment
of a collateral registry for movable property to facilitate
collateralized lending; and (c) insolvency: public information
campaign focusing on enterprise restructuring and liquidation, and
training of legal professionals. Further subprojects will be
considered, based on evolving needs and priorities, and the
availability of funds under this component.
Project Implementation
10.     The TA will be implemented over a two-and-a-half year period.
Each component will be managed by a designated counterpart
- 5 -



institution. The Commercial Bank Institutional Development will be
managed by the Trade and Development Bank. The Public Enterprise
Financial Restructuring component will be handled by SPC. The Legal
Reform Program will be implemented by MOJ through the Legal Reform
Project Unit. Each counterpart agency will be responsible for
procurement and disbursement arrangements, including selection of
consultants, equipment purchase, arrangement of training courses
and technical supervision of studies. The Ministry of Finance will
be responsible for preparation of consolidated Project Accounts.
Lessons from Previous IDA Operations
11.     The design of BELTAC draws on the lessons learned from IDA's
experience in the delivery of TA in Mongolia itself, as well as in
comparable operations in transitional countries in Eastern Europe
and Central Asia. IDA experience highlights the need for (a) strong
political commitment to the reform process as a whole; (b)
involvement of senior management of participating institutions at
an early stage; (c) designation of a local project coordinator with
clearly defined responsibilities acceptable to all participating
institutions; (d) clearly understood budgeting and funding
mechanisms, in particular, procedures to reallocate funds within
components as necessary; and (e) upfront definition of components
to the extent possible, while maintaining sufficient flexibility in
Project design to respond to evolving needs and priorities, and
facilitate coordination with other donors.
Project Benefits
12.     The Project would support key institutions in accelerating
and deepening the restructuring of the enterprise and financial
sectors which is essential for the success of the Government's
policy of economic stabilization and structural reform. The Project
would enhance the quality of banking services and stimulate
enterprise-level adjustment in the real sector. The Project will
demonstrate the principles and procedures of loan recovery and
financial restructuring of distressed enterprises in an environment
where these concepts are unfamiliar. The stronger legal,
regulatory, and supervisory framework will help instill greater
financial discipline among the commercial banks, protecting their
long-term solvency as well as the interests of depositors. On the
borrower's side, financial discipline by banks will harden the
budget constraints faced by state-owned and newly privatized
enterprises and foster further enterprise reform. Moreover,
improvements in commercial banking skills will lead to greater
transparency and reliability of Mongolian financial data, a
prerequisite for modern financial sectors and private sector
development and, indeed, public confidence. Most importantly, the
Project would provide a means for sustainability of BESAC
objectives. Developing institutional capacity will continue to be a
principal element in IDA's assistance strategy to Mongolia over the
long term.
Project Risks
-6-



13.     The main risks include: (a) policy changes, and possible
reversal of the banking and enterprise reform processes due to
increasing public pressure on the Government; (b) duplication of
assistance from other donors; (c) misperceptions by stakeholders
regarding the relatively high costs of international consulting
services; (d) delays in revision of laws and (e) delays in Project
implementation, particularly provision of inputs, and maintenance
of administrative files caused by limited administrative capacity;
and (f) unrealistic expectations of advisory services and training.
To minimize these risks, emphasis has been placed on: continued
policy dialogue, frequent consultation with donors, use of local
consultants and contractors and communicating the benefits of
international experience. Implementation delays can be mitigated by
close supervision and prior agreement on responsibilities of
counterpart institutions. The risk of unrealistic expectations can
only be mitigated through client ownership, and continuation of the
participatory process, particularly with regard to legal reform.
Program Objective Category
14.     The program objective categories are financial sector
development, private sector development and public sector
management.
Poverty Category
15.     Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
16.     The proposed Project has been placed in Environmental
Category "C" and does not require an environmental assessment.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
-7 -



