Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24211
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29480)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.5 MILLION
TO
MONGOLIA
FOR A
BANKING, ENTERPRISE AND LEGAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
June 6, 2002
Thils document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherxvise be disclosed without World Bank authorizationl.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 15, 2002)
Curr-enicy UJnit = Tugrik (Tg)
Tg I = US$ 0 0009
US$ I = Tg 11)4
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BELTAC              Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit
BESAC               Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
BMP                 Bagahangai Meat Plant
BTO                 Back-to-Office Report
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CMEA                Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DMP                 Darkhan Mini-Metal Plant
ESW                 Economic and Sector Work
IDA                 Intemnational Development Association
LIL                 Learning and Innovation Loan
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
MOJ                 Ministty of Justice
MOP                 Memorandum of the President
NPA                 Non-Perfonming Asset
NPL                 Non-Perfonning Loan
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
PSDC                Private Sector Development Credit
SOE                 State-Owned Enterprise
SPC                 State Property Commission
TA                  Technical Assistance
TDB                 Trade and Development Bank
TM                  Task Manager
WBG                 World Bank Group
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassuin
Countiy Manager/Director:  aian Porter
Sector Manager/Director:  Loup J. Brefort
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Amanda Carlier



MONGOLIA
BANKING, ENTERPRISE AND) LEGAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT (BELTAC)
CONTENTS
P'age Nui.
I Project Data                                                                       I
2 Principal Performance Ratings                                                       I
3 Assessment of Developmenit Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4 Achievement of Objective and Outpuits                                              4
5 Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomile                               X
6 Sustainability                                                                     9
7 Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     I (
8 Lessons Leamed                                                                    12
9 Partner Comments                                                                  13
10 Additional hiformationi                                                          23
Annex 1. Key Perfomnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                24
Annex 2 Project Costs and Financing                                                 25
Annex 3 Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 26
Annex 4 Bank Inputs                                                                 27
Annex 5 Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 28
Annex 6 Ratings of Bank and BorTower Performance                                    29
Aninex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              30






Proj(ct ID  P047683                                        |Prolect Vname MN-BANK,ENT,LEG,TA(BELT
Team Leuder. Amanda S. Carlter                              TL UnJit EASPS
ICI? Type Core ICR                                          Report Date. Jun1e 6, 2 002
1. Project Data
Name. MN-BANK,ENT,LEG,TA(BELT                          l//TF ,Vi7Nunm'r IDA-29480
(Cotntrv/Deparntment MONGOLIA                                               Re-ion  Fast Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsecror  FS - Fimancial Sector Development
KEY DA'I'ES
Original             Rei vedlAetuat
PCD     06/26/95                                Efect ve   11/26/97             11/26/97
Appcraisal  10/17/96                                    AITR
Approtval.  05/01/97                                 Closing   06/30/2000          0)6/30)/2001
Boroii'er/Imlm7r7tenting Agency  Ministry of Finance/State Property Commission. Trade and Developmelit Bank,
Ministry of JuLstice
Other Partners
STAFF                 Currenit                                    At Appraisal
Vice Presdle,it'      Jemal-ud-diin Kassum                        Jean-Michel Sevennio
Countrv AManager      Ian Porter                                  Nicholas C Hope
.'ector AManager       Loup Brefort                               Klaus Rohlaiid
Team Leader at ICI?   Amanda Carlier                              Natasha Beschorner
ICR Prinmary Author'  Amanda Carlier
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unly, HUUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=1Iighly Unsatisfactory. H=High. SU=Substaniial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Oiutconie S
Suistaenability L
In.i titional Development Impact' M
Bank Performance S
Bormrower Performtiance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Qualttv at E'ntrv- S
Project at Ris/( at An)' Tuie.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3 1 Original Objecive
The objectives and the design of the Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Credit (BELTAC)
need to be assessed in the context of highly unstable banking and enterprise environmiiienit prevailing in
Mongolia in the mid 1990's: Mongolia was plunged into economic tunmoil in 1 990 when the collapsing
Soviet Union withdrew its subsidies and the CMEA trading system disintegrated. In the following few
years, Mongolia sti-uggled to bring its economy tinder control and for a time made reasonable progress in
restoring growth and reducing inflation.  Mongolia's fragile recovery suffered a major set-back with a
financial sector cnsis in 1996 which saw the collapse of one bank and the closure of two large banks that
held approximately 50 percent of the total deposits in the country.  At this stage, noni-perforiniig loans
were in excess of 40 percent of the portfolio of the largely insolvent and illiquid commercial banking
system. The status and health of the banking sector closely reflected the status and performance of its
clients - the enterprises - and highlighted the need for major enterprise restructihmng and closure.  BESAC
-- the structural adjustment credit --was proposed in response to the financial sector crisis. In recognition
of the very weak institutional capacity to implement the refonns necessaiy and ideiitified in BESAC, its
technical partner -- BELTAC was proposed to provide the necessary technilcal and instititionial buLiding
support.
The objectives of the BELTAC were two-fold  The immediate objective was to flacilitate implemilentatioll
of the proposed BESAC Project, in particular the debt work-out and loan recovery elements of the
Governments relorm program, to create a demonstration effect. The longer-term objective was to promote
institLtional and skills development so that the reforms implemented under the BESAC could be sustained.
A key elemenit of this project was to strengthen the legal and juridical environmienit throughi a numiber of
institutional building activities.
These objectives were clearly important for the country and the Bank's Country Assistaiice Strategy. They
reflected essential priorities for the development of a viable market economy in Mongolia at that time. The
objectives were consistent with govenmment strategy and recognized the need to "clean-up" the legacy of the
earlier regimes characterized by government intervention in credit allocation, poor commercial banking
skills and non-creditworthy borrowers, as well as the importance of setting-up a transparent legal
framework for fiuture operations of the banking and enterprise sectors. They also reflected the medium term
priorities identified in the Bank's JuLne 1995 Country Assistance Strategy to support the development of
private activities and financial institutions. The CAS outlined the institutional and structural refonn
measures that were needed especially in the banking and enterprise sectors.
Albeit important, the objectives were overly optimistic for a couLitry facing huge demands from many
directions for its very limited institutional capacity at the time. Arguably, the project tried to address too
many thorny issues at one time and, in some aspects, underestimated both the effort and resources needed
to realize the specific objectives of individual sub-components. The project required difficult institutional
building and coordination in three very loosely connected areas of (i) strengthening commercial banking
capacity, (ii) state owned enterprise refonr, and (iii) improving the legal and juridical environimiient.
3 2 Revived Ob(ective
n/a
3 3 Original Coniponeitv-
(a) Commercial Bank Institutional Development (S0.6 million) financed a 18-24 month twinning
- 2 -



arrangement with the theni most stable state-owned commercial bank "Trade and Developmenit Bank"
(TDB). Under the twinning program the foreign bank was to provide advisory services and on-the-job
training in key areas of commercial bank operations. In particular, it would provide dedicated staff to
assist TDB's newly establisled Debt Workout Unit m loan accouniting. finanicial analysis and debt
restructuring for the four private enterprises selected under the BESAC program. as a pilot to be extended
to other commercial banks  This componient, especially the opting for a twinning arrangement, was well
suited to the steady building of institutionial capacity over time. The challenge was to attract a suitable
commercial bank as a twmining partner, given both the limited commercial potential that Mongolia
represented for commercial banks and the resources available for this assignment (although the fuindinig
amount was probably appropriate for the size of the TDB). This componenit was important io the project's
overall objectives in its pilot role of providing a good example of commercial bank operations and debt
work-out.  Although the method by which the lessons of this "pilot" would be transferred to other
commercial banks was left somewhat unclear   The component was appropriate for the institutional
capacity of the implementing agent TDB.
(b) Public Enterprise Financial Restuctuiring ($0.2 million) was to finance short-term advisors to assist the
State Property Commission (SPC) in carrying out financial viability assessments of the two largest public
enterprises defaulters to commercial banks (Bagahangai Meat Company and Darkhan Miii-Metal
Company), both of which represented a significant fiscal burden on the goveri-inent.  Thle aim was to
demonstrate options and strategies for enterprise restructuring or liqLiidation. With the beniefit of hinidsighit,
there were two key flaws in the design of this component. The first was misjudging the goverinment's
willingness - or political ability - to liquidate these enterprises, should this be the recommenidation of the
assessment.  The second design issue was that the necessary resources to carry-out the enterprise
resolution, whether it be restnicturinlg or liquidation, following the initial assessment stage were not
provisioned for. While the idea of tackling the major defaulters was important to the project's objectives, it
was unrealistic to expect the "problem" of these defaulters to be resolved given (a) the scope of this
component (stopped at the diagnostic stage) and (b) the capacity of the implementing agency, the State
Property Commission
(c) Legal Reform Program ($1 2 million) was designed to support the further development of the legal
framework for the banking and enterprise sectors and improve the application and enlorcemilenlt of
Mongolia's laws, throughi the implementation of specific and focused sub-projects  Tihese sub-pr-ojects
included (a) execution of judgemilents strengtheninig the Bailiffs office th-ough analysis of its operations
and training (b) collateral registration: establishment of a movable property registry for movable property
to facilitate collateralized lending: (c) insolvency: public informnation campaign focusing on enterprise
restnicturing and liquidation, and the training of legal professionals. This componienit also had the built-in
flexibility of allowing for fulrther subprojects to be considered based on the evolving needs and priorities
and was fundamental to both the project objectives and the CAS.  The challenge, which was largely met,
was in respect to the implementation agency created specifically for this component which comprised of a
project coordinator and a Steering Committee.
3 4 Revded (Conmponentv
n/a
3 5 Quahlitv at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on the strength of (i) consistency of objectives with the
priorities for the restructuring of tihe financial and enterprise sectors and (ii) the concept of undertakinlg
only "pilot" or demonstration cases. The MOP documented the project and its backgrotind reasonably well
and assessed some of the risks to project implementation. The project was consistent with the B1ank's
- 3 -



Coountry Assistance Strategy tor Mongolia at that time. The June 1995 CAS set out the principal criteria
that would govern future IDA assistance. In the short term, the strategy was to suppoit the Govermiienlt's
macroeconomic management capability throughi technical assistance and continued policy dialogtue; in the
medium term, the strategy was to support the development of private activities and financial instituitions as
well as help implement the Governmenit's poverty alleviation program. Imporlantly. the project design also
took into account other donor initiatives in Mongolia at that time. It explicitly recognized that the total TA
requirements for the financial sector, enterprise and legal reform were considerably beyond the scope of the
project. The components were therefore designed to be coordinated with othier donor-financed TA to
enhance synergies and to take into account the Govenmment's absorptive capacity.  As part of the
preparations a comprehensive matrix outlining all ongoing and pipelined donor-ftinded techilical assistance
was included in the project's technical annex.
There were nevertheless opportulilties to improve the project design. For example, questions can be raised
about the realism of the enterprise component, which provided only USD 200,0()( to complete viability
assessments of the two largest loss-making enterprises, without giving due consideration to how these plans
could be implemented, both from a political and financial viewpoint. Project design could have also been
improved by strengtienling the linkages between components.
A characteristic of this project was the indepenidence of each of the sub-components. Fach componienlt was
designed, administrated and implemented completely independent of the others. There was no attempt to
"supervise" the project as a whole by the govenmment, nor to group the experiences and lessons learnt
throughi the very separate components into a holistic picture for dissemination purposes.  This is
unfortunate given that all components were intended to be "demonstration" cases Arguably, this should
have been the role played by tile MOF but, as the project was designed, the contents of the components and
units managing their implementation were completely independent. Potentially the project would have had
greater impact if a mechanism or foumm by which the experiences of the individual components could be
more widely disseminated and the important linkages between the banking and enterprise sectors and legal
environment openly discussed. One option would have been to include a fourth componlenit committed to
the dissemination of experiences in the other components and a discussion of the Issues that arose in the
course of their implementation.  Such a component could have been implemenited through an annual
workshop, for example, and served as a useful fontm to discuss related issues of conceril to the various
parties involved. For example. TDB and the banking comnmunilty would have benefited from being
informed about and contributing their views to efforts to improve the legal environimient as it pertained to
economic crimes, especially the bankirptcy of enterprises. Sucih a "dissemination" component could have
leveraged the impact of the project and hence the realization of the development objectives
4. Achievenient of Objective and Outputs
4 1 Outcome/achievenienr of objective
Achievement of objectives and outputs tinder the BELTAC was satisfactory. Considerinig the degree of
political and financial sector instability during the years of implementation of thlis program, tile results of
most elements of this project have been worthwhile.
All project components involved difficult challenges of building up institutional capacity in areas where
there had been previously little or no experience or recent tradition in Mongolia. Moreover, these activities
were implemented in a period of turmoil for Mongolia with the resignations of four governments in thlree
years which inevitably had both indirect and direct impacts on the project's implemenitationi (especially on
the pace and commitment to the refoni of state-owned enterpnses component). Four out of the five main
project Output Indicators for the banking and enterprise activities were substantially met. aild five of the
-4 -



six Ouitcome/Impact Indicators at least partially achieved - especially in respect to thie comimiercial banking
skills and loan collection work.  Similarly most of the respective aims of the legal component
sub-component have been met  Although it is too soonI to gauge the full impact of the specific legal
interventions, genieral observations fi-om the business community suiggest that the rtle of law is now being
more effectively enforced in Mongolia, and public confidence in the legal institutionis has increased  The
project closing date was extended to accommodate the slower than anticipated progress in the
implementation of the legal component. Part of the delay incuiTed in this component was dtie to extensive
discussion by the Steering committee overviewing and selecting specific componenit activities However the
active involvement of the Steenng Comminttee and the small dedicated project implementation unit also
reflected greater Bolrower owner-slip and the benefits associated with this.
In contrast, the most significant shortcoming of the project relates to the program of restructurinlg or
liquidation of the enterprises under SPC, as pilot cases, to spur widespread enterprise restructirinig and
thereby diminishes the fiscal and monetary burden of such enterpriscs.  The project's objectives to
financially restrmcture the ptiblic enterprises and reduce their fiscal and monetary burden have not been
realized. A more stable political environment and decisive government could have significantly improved
the benefit of the program and provided a good pilot example as a catalyst to widespread progress This
window of opportunity has niow been missed, as the restructurinig plans developed more than thiee years
ago are now too dated and not suited to the current financial perfomnance and market opportunities of these
enterprises
4 2 ()utpi& hb conmponent.s
Commercial Bank Twinning Component is rated highly satisfactory.  This componienit has been
implemented during a very difficult and fragile time for the Mongolian banking sector. whichl has witnessed
a financial sector crisis, the collapse of several large banks in Mongolia, a very higih level of system wide
non-perfonring loans and the associated risk of systemic collapse. The twinning prograrn can-ied out in
1998-1999 included a comprehensive diagnostic review of TDB operations and led to the implementation
of various programs of instititional strengthening across many activities of the bank with particUlar
emphasis on TDB's debt/workout and loan recovery capacity. After several years of steady institutiolial
strengthening, TDB is now the most profitable and liquid bank in the Mongolian finanicial sector. As of
June 2001 NPL were down to 174 percent of its total loans, compared with 34.4 percent a year earlier
(July 2000). TDB is currently operating well within all the prudential nomis set by the central bank of
Mongolia.
The reduced NPL level reflects the high priority TDB has given to conservative new lending and recovery
of non-perfonning loans. An early focus of this program was the recovery of the debts fi-om its four largest
defaulters. TDB succeeded in recovering 1(00 percent of its loan to Eenrel JS Corporationi, repossessed the
property of the plant in the case of Kherlen Carpet JS Corp., and has so far recovered 24.5 %" and 19 5 %/S
of its loans to Erdenet carpet JS Corp. and Ulaanbaatar Carpet JS Corp. respectively  In addition, TDB
has negotiated agreed repayment schedules with its 20 largest defaulting bon-owers and is steadily
recovering these loans to the extent feasible. (For example, just in the nine-monithi period to Sept 30, 2000.
TDB's "performance for NPA Reduction Plan by the 20 largest defaulting borrowers" led to the collection
of MNT 128.4 million and of USD 2.55 million; the total outstanding loan balance of these borrowers was
reduced from MNT 9,362.6 million down to MNT 6,556.0 million). TDB has also increased its intermal
control procedures to safeguiard against inappropriate lending behavior. In addition to the debt work
out/loan recovery activity, the twinning program with Norwegian Banking Resources covered strategic
planning, marketing, organizational review, financial management, credit management and work-out, and
automation needs. TDB's capacity and perfonnance has generally been improved in all these areas and is
- 5 -



reflected in the strong financial perfonnance of the commercial bank In 1999 TDBl cointribtited 2,152
billion Tg to the state central budget (1,003 billion in income tax and 1,149 in dividends), in 2000 their
contribution increased to 5,007 billion Tg with 3,000 in income tax and 2,007 in dividend (only 3 other
entities contributed more). The Govenmnent is currently seeking private bidders in its process to privatize
TDB.
This componenit has met both its short-term objectives of being a demonstr-ation case of debt work-out and
NPL recovery and especially its longer-tenn objectives of promoting the institutional and skill development
inside TDB. The challenge in the operating phase of this project will be to transfer these lessons and good
results to other commercial banks  In this sense it is worth noting that the other well perfonning bank in
Mongolia, the private Golomt bank, has recently benefited from its own technilcal assistance program fiom
foreign banking experts.
Enterprise Restructuring Component is rated as unsatisfactory As stated in the MOP "t11 ainm of his
comizponienit is to demonstrate options antd strategyies Jbr enterprise restructuring or- liquildation to SPC. as
the repre.tentative of Goveiernnienit ownership in the enterprise sector, and to pr-ivate en terpris e nlonTge'rv.
This pilot enterprise was expected to promnpt more wi'idespread restructuring in ilhe other sectors of ilie
economiiy. " Several years after this program was initiated the two enterprises selected to be a restructurt ing
"example", namely, Bagahangai Meat Plant (BMP) and Darkhan Mini-Metal Plant (DMP) are still heavilv
indebted, 100 % publicly owned, inefficient and loss-making. Given this record of non-performance neithier-
enterprise can be considered a good example, nor have these examples sparked "widespread" restiucturing
in the other sectors of the economy. It is also uniclear whether this componient has contiibuted to capacity
building within the SPC.
*   DMP is currently only opemtinig at a fraction of its capacity  In 2000 DMP recorded a huge (by
Mongolian standards) loss of 3,048 billion Tg, equivalent to approximately US S2.77 million. This
result was a substantial deterioration from the previous year -1999, when a 1,977 billion Tg loss was
recorded, the equivalent to about US $1.8 million.  These huge debts appeal to have heeli lunded
primiarily through increasing both short-tenr and long-tenn debt, whichi is clearly not a sustainable
practice (see file for details of finding sources).
*   BMP recorded a loss of 468.6 million Tg (approximately USD 453,260) In 2001 and closed down
operations in the winter to save costs. The volumes of meat it processes are also declinilng rapidly; in
1998 the factory processed 15500 tons of beef, mutton and horse meat, 959 tonls in 1999 and only 418.5
tons in 2000. The plant received heavily subsidized funding (US $1 2 million at I'V,/ interest over 10
years) but still produces a loss  DMP was moved in 1999 to the municipal (as distinct from the state)
portfolio and now reports to the Capital Property Department
It should be noted that in a narrow sense the component did satisfactorily meet its objectives of cartying out
financial viability assessments of these large public sector enterpnses.  Indeed these assessments were
completed by early 1998. In the case of BMP the conclusion was that although BMP was potentially
viable, liquidation presented a safer route to the Govermnent, compared to the risk of futire failure The
assessment of DMP concluded that the liquidation of DMP would produce only modest realization
proceeds, whereas a successful restructurinig was possible. In both cases the govern1ment, presuLimably for
political reasons, opted to attempt the restructuring of these SOEs, and restructuring action plans were
developed. As both enterprises had been cut off from access to the commercial banking sector, their
restructiring costs and working capital had to be financed from the public budget wvhich was also in a
"distressed" state.  Thlis dependency of the government for working capital, especially the provision of
which was substantially delayed as the govenlment attempted to meet other priorities, furtiher eroded the
-6 -



viability of' these entierprises The lack of decisive action on the part of various governm111enits (four duLing
Ihis period) to move ahead with their enterprise refonr program has also contribtited to this poor iesult.
Legal Component is rated as satisfactoiy  The project activities have contributed to the mzain objective of
strengtheninig the legal environment for commercial banking and business and helping to restore public tmrst
in the banking system  While legal reform, especially strengtheninig the capacity of the various instittutiolls,
is a long process and one that cannot be fully accomplished in a couple of years, the progress is clearly
moving In the right direction. A numilber of important activities have been successfully implemiienited Linder
the varotis sub-components. Alihoughi these, somewhat piecemeal actions, are insufficient to substantially
improve the legal framework and application and enforcement of Mongolia's laws, they have made
wortlhwhiile contributions. Perhaps one of the greatest contributions of the legal componienit has been the
large iiumber of training programs that have been carried out under the respective sub-comnponents. for
bankers, banking and government lawyers, judges, police officers and prosecutol-s, which together has
raised the level of understandinig of economic legal matters and hence effective enforcement.  In other
sub-projects, while the intended activities have been completed, the new institutionis or systems are not yet
operating at the level required. For example. the collateral registration sub-project Is expected to fill an
important gap ii the legal fabric of Mongolia. Up to now, the absence of a property and collateral
registration system was undeminiiing security of banking and business severely. The Law on Ilmmovable
Property Registration was adopted only in 1997 and unfamniharity with the new concept an(d administrative
changes led to a number of delays In implementing this sub-component.  The  limmovable Property
Registration Office was equipped with fully operational hardware, registrationi software and a detailed
business plan for its operations, by the time of Prolect closure.
In the case of the bankruptcy sub-component it is clear that additional work will be required to achieve the
development objective despite the successful implementation of a comprehensive range of activities  In
respect to this sub-coinponent, the new Law on Insolvency has been adopted, the interpretationi of the
Supreme Court issued, the hosting of a umiber of in-country training courses for judges, trustees and
lawyers and study-tours to different jurisdictions conducted, and the development and dissemination of a
range of training materials, suchi as video courses for judges and general public, and a hanidbook on
Insolvency. The mechanism to remove or restructure an insolvent enterprise is now in place, with the most
tip-to-date law, trained judges and trustees (National Association of Tnistees is established In 1999), and a
liandbbok on Insolvency procedures for practitioners. But the public continues to hiave a very strong
negative perception of the bankiriptcy concept, which is the main hindrance for implemenitationi of the law.
The reason for this public resistance Is cultural, as the word "Bankmipt" in Mongolian refers to a person or
entity who or which is ethically and morally down, rather than to an insolvent enterprise, and will require
on-goinig public awareness campaign to change this perception.
4 3 ,Vet Pre,sent Value/Econoinic t rate of rettrn.
As an NPV or ERR was not calculated in the original project document it is not applicable.
In general cost-effective tenns this project is considered to be reasonably effective - or at least a least cost
approach to achieve the sought-after outcomes. The amount of the investnments were small for specific and
targeted activities that were designed as focused interventions. The cost of the twinning program for TDB
for example (USD 0.6 million) was appropriate for the relatively small size of this comiimercial bank by
intemattonal standards  Similarly with an average cost of about USD 240,000 per legal sub-componlent,
given its wide outreach (with several training programs for bankers, banking and govenmlnent lawyers,
judges, police officers, prosecutors, bailiffs, etc.) and drafting of legislation, the resources commiiitted to the
legal component have been cost-effective.  In respect to the enterprise reform componenit which has been
rated as unsuccessfiil - in this sense it was not an effective use of resources. From anotlher perspective, one
- 7 -



can clain that at least only USD 200,000 was "wasted" on this component, as most lBank-funded entcrprise
restructuring componenits involve considerably larger investments. (Nor is it believed that larger resources
would have improved the outcome of this component as arguably the restraint was political not financial
see discussion above)
4 4 Financial rate of renirn
n/a
4 5 Institutitn)iial levelopnient impact
Institutional development was a core aim of this project. The degree of institutional developmenit impact is
very mixed. In the case of the commercial bank, the institutional development impact has been highi and
likely very sustainable. The impact of the twinning program, which emphasized oii-tle-job traininig, is
evident in the generally improved skills across the bank, which in tunii Is reflected in the good finanicial
perfomiance of TDB and its steady profit flow (net profit of 6.6 million Tg as of 31 Dec 2001)  In the
words of the fomier CEO of TDB (in place at the completion of the twinninlLg program) the twinning
program was "particularly uselid for our hanks' seniot and middle mnanaigeenzeit in lerm.s o/ldeveloping
theit conceptual thinkinig and refinling their working approaches and methods as w'ell "  In transition
economliies it is often more difficult to develop "conceptual thinking" than the transfer of specific technical
skills, but in TDB's case the institutional development has been comprehensive. As a sign of TDB
improved perfonnance, the bank is the first on the govemnment's list to be privatized havinlg been deemed as
one of the most attractive opportuniities in Mongolia for foreign investors, as it continiues to make good
profits.
The institutional development of the variois legal and juridical institutions involved in the legal refonn
component has been more modest because the activities have been more thinly sprea(d across a relatively
larger number of agencies and actors   Training programs have led to improved knowledge and
understandinig by certain lawyers, judges, police officers, prosecutors, baliftfs, and several officials within
the Ministry of Justice
The institutionial development impact on the other involved project entity, the State Property Committee
(SPC), is less evident. The poor results of the restnicturing of the two specific "pilots" ftinded  tinder
BELTAC would stiggest that there has been little institutional development at SPc, altlotigh the outcome
of these cases has also be highly influienced by political consideration. Independenit of these specific
examples, SPC perfonnance seems to have Improved. The SPC currently supervises about 120 state
owned enterprises with combined assets of 430 billion Tg and 614 billion Tg of net sales. The combinied
profit perfonnance of the enterprises managed by SPC improved 2.6 times (or by 14.2 hilliol Tg) over the
previous year.
5. Major Factors Affecting iniplcinentation and Outcome
5 I F-actorv outside the control of ooverinment or implementing (agencv
A number of external factors had considerable impact on this project. Political instability that led to the
resignation of four govermments within the time-frame of the project's implementationi had a substantial
detrimental impact on the implementation of the highly politicized enterprise reform  program. which
became largely stalemated. Mongolia's economy is highly dependant on copper and gold and the fall in the
world market prices of these commodities led to substantial fiscal constraints and compromised the ability
of the govenmment to provide the necessary resources in a timely fashion to impletment the restrLcturllng of
BMP and DMP. The Bank's role was also mixed, both in its design activities and supervision. As argued
elsewhere, the design and approach of the enteiprise refonn component was fundamenitally flawed. The
-8-



lciquidation of Norwegian Banking Resources who had provided the twiniminig sUppolt to TDB meanit that a
couple of the final deliverables were not provided (especially the financial forecastinig). Nevertheless thc
effect of this on the outcome was relatively negligible as most of the twinning activities had been completed
before the constiltanicy firm was liquidated.
5 2 Factorv generallv subject to government control-
Clearanice delays got the project as a whole off to a slow start Senior staff changes also slowed process of
the legal component at several stages.  But the Enterprise Component in particular could have benefited
from more attention by semor government officials.  The government's delay in proving the necessaiy
workinig capital to support the restmicturing of the two heavily indebted enterprises and the absence of
decisive action to stop the fiscal drain caused by these enterprises (either thir-otigih licluidalion or
privatization), has had at least a partial, if not substantial negative impact on the realization of the
development objectives of this component.
Also within tile government's control is implementation of the required project audits. whichi has been
problematic for many IDA projects in Mongolia. The govenmment apparently lacked thie resotirces to
conduct an audit to the standard required by the WBG, and in these cases no project fiunds were allocated
to finanice the audits. After some delay a temporary solution was fouind to package the outstaniding audits
from several projects and to finance this fiom unused ftinds from one of the TA projects. llowever, this ad
hoc solution has not i-esolved the longer-tenn issue and the delay in receiving audits is clearly sub-optimal
from a project managemenit point-of-view
The goveriiment's support in the selection of the Steering Committee and project maniagement staff for the
legal component, and the strong coumnitment by both of these parties, had a positive iiliact on the
imiplementation of the project.
5 3 iactorv ge'nerallh utibJect to ,niplenmentilig agencl) cotitrol
The project benefited fi-om the strong commitment of senior staff responsible for the twinning arrangement
in TDB and the staff in the P1U for the legal component. Tle commitment and perseverance of these staff
had a substantial positive impact on the project. In contrast, the PIU could have improved its records
management and procurement processinig, but the fault here lies more with the delay in providilig the
necessaiy training to the highly committed team, who had no prior experience in Banik procedures. Both
staff members did eventually undertake an in-depth procurement training course at HQ in Washington,
D.C but, had this been schedtiled at an earlier phase in the project, it would have aided project
implemilenitation. This factor had a negligible impact on the project's outcome
5 4 Covi~ u1d financing
There were no significant cost changes in the project. The financing arrangements were carried out as
expected. Delays in disbursement were incurred, especially in respect to the Legal component, but this
largely reflected the prolonged discussion by the Steering Committee in designing the sub-componcnits
which, if anything, had a positive effect on the level of Borrower commitment In this componienit
6. Sustainability
6 1 Rationale for svi4tainabilint rating
The project sustainability is rated as likely. Good conimercial banking skills have been establisied at the
Trade and Development Bank, reflected in its financial performance. As a large number of TDB's staff
received on-the-job training through the twinning arrangement, the skill development was not just limited to
a few individuals but reached a cntical mass of bank staff and, as such, is not overly vulilerable to changes
in key management positions. TDB's experience is being mimicked at the second largest commercial bank
-9-



whichi is now receiving IDA-ftinded TA tinder a separate operation.
Similarly the progress made unlder the legal component is expected to be sustained, especially the
considerable efforts in improving the human capital of legal professions through the numiierous training
prograrns.  The recent negotiation of a new legal L[L, whichi will complemenlt and build oni work
undertaken in this project to strengthen the legal environment, will also help cement the sustainahility of
project activities
The enterprise refonn activities have failed and therefore there is no question of 'mainitainin1g the
achievements."  At best the enterprise refonrn component can serve as an important lesson on the
importance of taking decisive action to deal with major loss-making enterprises, and the cost and risks of
attempting to restructuire rather than liquidate before the debts increase.
6 2 Thanitvtion arrangement to regular oJperatinnis
The project activities for the banking and enterprise components have been com1pleted for mor-e thani two
years already, and do not require transitionial arrangements  TDB is ali-eady established as a well rLi
commnercial bank and serves as a model to the other banks in Mongolia Thc government is cuiTently tiying
to find a foreign investor to privatize TDB, with the ideal candidate being a reputable foreigni bank that
could bring new technology and financial services expertise to Mongolia.
Several of the activities initiated under the legal componenlt do however wan-ant transitional arrangements
to ensure effective operation. The World Bank is continuini1g its support to building the legal and juridical
environment in Mongolia and to build on the achievements of BELTAC through the new Legal and Judicial
Refonn Project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Ba,ik
7 1 Lendung
Overall performance was satisfactory. The Bank's perf'ormance in project identification was satisfactory
as the initial project concept corTectly reflected the key risk to the realization of the development objective
of the sectoral adjustment credit under preparation (i.e., the weak capacity of the Mongoliai institutions).
The project, especially wheni coupled with its twin structiral adjustment operation was consistenit with both
the government's development priorities and with the Bank's assistance stmtegy for Mongolia
The Bank's perfonrance in 'preparation was satisfactory as it deliberately Iimited the scope of the
operation to (X) reflect the limited adsorptive capacity of the govemment at that timie and (it) compleimenit,
not overlap, the activities of other donor initiatives. As the specific activities ftinded under BELTAC were
intended to be "pilot" cases, the design could have been improved by explicitly incorporating a foulth
component dedicated to bringing all the parties together to evaluate and disseminate the pilot experiences
and hence link the separate components. Without such a retrospective componenit mutici of the potential
demonstiation benefit of this project was not realized. The Bank could have also contributed more at the
project preparation phase in setting up the procurement and financial management arrangement of the PIU,
given the Borrower's limited experience with these. The quality of preparation was aided by the core
involvement of the Bank staff who had the most in-depth knowledge of Mongolia at this time, and who
were also responsible for most of the ESW  work on Mongolia and the development of the sectoral
adjustment credit
The Bank's peiformance at the appraisal stage was mixed, but overall considered to he satisfactory  The
- 10 -



performiance indicators were well defined, the project was not overly complex and the key risks and
variables were, for the most part, recognized. In tenns of skills mix, the appraisal teami would have been
strengthened by adding an enterprise refonn expert with practical experience in transition economies, who
could have highlighited the complexities involved in SOE refonn and proposed a redesign or dropping of
this componenit.  The readiness and capacity of the various institutions was not even at the time of
appraisal. while TDB was ready to go, the PIU for the legal component lacked ihe kinowledge of Banlk
procedtires which led to inevitable delays. The legal component would hlave been implemented more
smoothly if the team had received traiining up front, and the sub-pr-ojects had been fully detenmnined, neither
of which were the case at the time of appraisal. Questions must also be raised about Goverinimient's
commitment althiough, given the subsequent political tun-noil, it is difficult to deteri-ilne whether
govermnent commitment was insutficient at the time of appraisal or whethier this resulted firoIm subseqtuent
events In either case, government's commitment to real enterprise reform  was suspect, given their view
that a meat and scrap-metal processing plants were "strategic!" and therefore wanted to retain state
ownershiip.  Concerns about the government's enterprise refonn program wer-e recoginized during the
pre-appraisal mission when the TM notes in the BTO that "..the sole concern veems to he ihe bud(get, anzd
the govctnment seems to see privatlizationi as a means to increase hbu(dgettwv rev'enct.% atnd decrlease
ouitlayv to staite-owvned enterprlises  . There doev not appear to he a concrete enter/)I-Ise rfm  .trateor
beyond ellortts to mass privtilize the econom 'y to generate quick cash". This sholid have also raised
doubts with the appraisal team about what options the Government would realistically pursue for these
enterprises if, for example. liqtidationi was recommended by the consultants.
7 2 S'uper vi viol?
Bank supervision is rated as adequate overall. The Bank met its formal supervision requiremenits durinig
project implementation: providing timely responses and action letters to requests, meeting interial reporting
deadlines, selecting Task Managers with appropriate skills, etc. The limited informationi in the project files
in the early stages of implementation, however, suggests that the project progress could have been better
recorded and more critically evaluated. In particular the lack of financial statemenlts on the specific
enterprises suggests that the actual perfonnance of these enterprises was not closely analyzed (Given the
paucity of' information it is also difficult to determine whether the supervision team proactively addressed
the problems with this component in a timely fashioni. The supervision team chanigedi about mid-way
through the supervtsion period but, by this time, the activities uinder the TDB component had been largely
completed and the activities tinder the enterprise reform program had been filly implemented, making it
difficult for the new team to engage these counterparts (especially SPC) in productive discussionis on
progress through the project's operation phase. The conitinluity and expertise of the Bank's country lawyer
who was responsible for the legal component from an early stage to the project closure, improved the
Bank's overall supervision effort. Although supervision missions took place regularly, tiley were usually
only a few days on average and did not allow for an in-depthi assessment of implementation progress.
Finally, it should be noted that Project audits expertenced significant delays, although as noted elsewher-e
this was not project-specific but generic to Mongolia.
7 3 Oi'erall Batik performance
Overall Bank performance was satisfactoiy. While several areas for possible improvement durinig the
preparation and supervision phase have been identified in the discussion above, there were no major
deficiencies in the Bank's effort. The quality and efficiency of the Bank effort benefitted from the fact that
Bank team was comprised of individuals with a strong Mongolian knowledge and substantial involvemenlt
in at least one or more additional Bank operations in Mongolia through the project's life (BELTAC
missions were always linked with the BESAC and later the PSDC), which led to efficiencies in supeivision.
Overall the Bank's effort and resource commitment to this very small project was generous.
- 11 -



Borrooiver
7. 4 Preparation
The BoiTower's peifonrmance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. There was close cooperation at the timie
of preparation between the Govenmient and representatives from all the counterpart agencies were involved
in the preparation of the loan In its Draft Letter of Development Policy and Matrix of Key Policy Actions
from the Prime Minister to James Wolfensohn in February 1997, the governlmllenit expressed its stiong
commitment to broad-ranging reforms, especially in the banking and enterprise sector. In contrast, during
the Bank field discussions with the counterparts, questions were raised about whiether the authlorilies had a
clear enterprise refonn strategy except as a way to generate quick cash.
7 5 (;overnnient ntnprlenenri7atton pefif)rniac1ce
The Government's implementationi peifonrance is assessed as satisfactory. although it declined noticeably
over the course of the implementation  At the outset of the project, wheni its twin structural adjustment
credit was disbursinlg, the Govemment was actively interested in the project's implemilenitation. However. as
time progressed, the government became less involved in the project's implementation. At the time TM
changed, wheni the TDB and enterprise reforn componenlts were largely implemnented, it was difficult to
find anyone at the Ministry of Finance who was even familiar with the project, let alone responisive to
writteni information requests at this stage  Overview of the progress of the implemiienitationi of the legal
component was effectively left up to the Ministry of Justice and the componenit's Steerinig Committee  The
Government's perfonnance in respect to the Project Audits is considered unsatisfactory
7 6 Implementing XAgenc v-
The perfonnance of the implemeniting agencies is satisfactory overall. Tlhree separate entities were
responsible for implementing the distinctive parts of the project; namely TDB, SPC and the PIU for the
legal comiponient. The TDB performance in implementing its component is assessed as highly satisfactory,
whiclh is perhaps not surprising as they were also the recipient of the assistance and thus had a strong
vested interest. Also their professional expertise and skills enhanced their perfonrance  The performance
of the PIU for the legal component was also strong, especially given the limited experience its staff hlad
with Bank procedures. This PIU displayed real dedication towards the realization of the developmenit
objectives, which to an extent compensated 'or some weaknesses in the managemeient of records and
processing speed. The dearth of inlformation available in the file about the SPC who were responisible for
implementing the enterprise refonr component makes it difficult to assess their perfonnance, but the
similar lack of substantive information (including financial infonnation) on the enterprises and the lack of
response to requests for detailed information indicates that the performance of SPC in respect to this
component was unsatisfactory. Although it should be noted that when the Bank fielded a supervision
mission, the SPC did pull together the managers and representatives of the Board of Directors to meet with
the Bank.
7 7 Overall Borro wer- perforniance-
The overall perfoniance of the Governm1ent in respect to BELTAC is assessed as satisfactory  As
mentioned above, aspects ol' the Borrower's perfonnance could have been imnproved but. considering the
difficulties the Borrower faced during this period, the frequent change of govemrmetnts and its institutional
capacity, on balance the perfonnance is satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   State-Owned Enterprise Refonr is extremely difficult to achieve even in the best of circumstances and,
at a minimum, requires years of dedicated effort and a higlhly committed govenmment The Governmiienet
needs to be willing and able to make commercially appropriate, rather than political driveni, decisions
including the sale of the state interest. If these conditions are not in place, SOE refoiml should not be
- 12 -



attempted.
*   Anotlier- lesson from the enterprise refonn component is that projects need to be designed for the
desired output, not Just to provide a core input with the "hope" that this wvill lead to the output III thlls
case, the only activity provided for under the enterprise refonn componenit was the finiancinig of
consultant viability assessments for the two SOEs, but the development objective was successful
examples of SOE refonr   The project design did not provide for the necessaiy activities and steps
between the viability assessment and the successfiul reformi.  Moreover, because the Bank's
involvemiienit stopped at financing the viability assessments, once these were completed the Bank had
little effective leverage to engage the counterparts in productive discussions and monitlorinig of the
actual enterprise refoml activities.
*   Twinning can be an effective methodology for the transfer of technical skills, especially when the
recipient institution has a clear idea and strong interest in what they want out of the arrangemiienits.
*   Aiiy project activities that are intended to be "pilots" should really be set up as suchi, with provision for
a joint WBG-client review and dissemination of the "pilot experience" built inlto the prOject desigil If
not, these "pilot" cases just tend to be mini-projects without the benefit of the experienlce being
disseminated and, where appropriate, replicated.
9. Partner Comments
(a,) Bc/Tl ui'Jer/inip/tr771eienrng zgt'ltnci'
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MONGOLIA
BANKING, ENTERPRISE AND LEGAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT (MO(i-2948)
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Tlhe collapse of centralized economy system in Soviet Union and Easterni Etirope has led to the
disruption of Mongolia's economily in 1990-1991  HIowever, Mongolia stabilized its economy in 1993 and
first indications of economic growth were recorded in 1994. In 1996 the Governmllienit of Mongolia has
initiated wide-range of economic refonn and within this refonn it announced a tour-year economic
program, incltiding restiLicturing of the bank-ing system to alert the risk of collapse in the Financial sector
and refonns of the taxation system.
During the last decade the Govemnment of Mongolia has taken series of actions to develop a sotind
and efficient financial sector, including the establishment of a market-based bankinig system.  Althouglh.
series of important actions have been taken the absence of proper legal environmiiient uLideriniiied the
economic activities and Government refonns. Based on the economic and legal condition) of that time the
Government of Mongolia has sought for an assistance to implement the Banking, Enter-piise and Legal
Technical Assistance Project.  The Banking, Enterprise and Legal Techinical Assistance Credit was
initiated by the Govemnment of Mongolia in 1996 and approved on May I, 1996 and declared effective on
November 16, 1997. Objectives of the Project are to design and implemenit banking, enteiprise and legal
refonns in support of Program of bankinig and enterprise. The project consists of the following parts
Part A:    Commercial Bank Institutional Development
Part B     Public Enterprise Financial Restricturing
Part C:    Legal Refonm
The BELTAC     Public Enterprise Financial Restructuring part has provided an importanit
instittitionial support in introducing advanced technology and know how in managemiient of western banking
practices in TDB and developing an effective legal environment for banking, commerce and enterprises
- 13 -



The consultinig works at the TDB covered wide range of issues for strengtheniilng the Bank's institutionlal
capacity, strategic management and planning, organizational structuring and financial maniagemenit,
developmenit of human resources, marketing and debt workout. Although, there was a lack in coordiniation
in the activities of the Goveniment and between the IDA and the Governiment Authorities, Commercial
Bank Institutionial Development part of the project had a positive impact in the overall activities of the
TDB and was rated as satisfactory.
The Public Enterprise Financial Restnicturing part of the project covered consulting issues on
evaluation of the businiess activities, finanlcial management of Bagahangai meat plant and at the Darhaln
mini-metal plant, their organizational restructuring, marketing and debt workout. The Public Enterprise
and Restructuring part of the project has reached its goals, and had satisfactory results.
The BELTAC legal reform component has provided advisory support ancl training for the Ministry
of Justice and Home Affairs and other selected institutions. The legal reform component assisted in
drafting of some of the important laws that regulate financial activities, such as Banikinig law, Law on
Central Bank of Mongolia and Law on Insolvency. The senes of training and study-iours were condticted
for a core group of Mongolian staff on application of the newly adopted laws thli-oughout the
implemenitation of the legal reforn component. The number of handbooks, intcrpretationis of laws, training
materials were developed and disseminated on banking, insolvency, privatization and other topics. Training
courses for bailitffs were organized to familiarize with enforcement operations and procedul-es and, hence,
improve the enforcement of judgements. In fiame of the legal reform component, the collateral registration
system that would directly affect on banking and business sectors was established.
The overall implementation of the project is rated as satisfactory. Although, there were obstacles
in the implementation of the project, it has fully completed its goals on strenigthening commercial bank
institutional development, public enterprise financial restnicturing and legal refomn
Part A: Commercial Bank Institutional Development
L. BACKGROUND
I I    The Banking, Enterprise and Legal Tecinical Assistance Credit was initiated by the Govermiienit of
Mongolia in 1996 and approved on May 1, 1997 and declared effective on November 16. 1997. In face of
the severe deterioration in the Mongoliani financial sector's overall perfomiance the BESA Credit, assisted
and fuLided by the IDA is directed on the long-tenn and gradual developmenit ol' the fi'ianicial sector of
Mongolia.
1.2    The restructuring and improvement of the financial management of the defaulting borrowers,
development and strengthening of the legal framewvork regulating the lending and collateral foreclosure
activities between the financial and real sectors of the economy are one of the major steps in the sustainable
reform policies of the Govemnment.
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES
2.1    Under the Banking, Enterprise and Legal Tecinical Assistance Credit Program of the Government
of Mongolia the Trade and Development Bank undersigned the Twinning Agreemelit with the Norweglall
Banking Resources LLC. on December 19, 1997 for total amount of USD 600 () thous. [Jnder this
Consulting Services Contiact the TDB availed seivices of total 6 consultants for the strengtlheniing of the
Bank's institutional capacities. According to the Tenrs of Reference and the Contract termis the NBR
- 14 -



consultants works covered a wide range of tasks in the area of strategic managemiielnt and planning,
organizational stnicturing and financial management, development of human resources, marketing and debt
workout
2 2    In initial period of the Twinning Arrangement the consulting worlks were concenitratinlg on
diagnostic services in which conclusion the NBR delivered a fuill Diagnostic Review within which
Assessment of Autonmationi needs was prioritized and summarized separately. In addition, the N13R
company delivered the Preliminary St-ategic Plan and instituitionial Development Program  The second
phase of Consulting Agreement was targeted on1 implementation of some of activities identified in the
diagnostic phase especially emphasizing on the workout of 4 largest defaulting borrowers
3. IDA PERFORMANCE
3. 1 IDA perfonmance during development and implementation of the project The IDA's assistance in the
Twinning Arrangement had an essential impact in preparation stage of selection and contractinlg process of
consultinig services carried out by Trade and Development Bank and its smootlh progress According to
Procurement Guidelines and the Standard Bidding and Contracting Documenltation selection of the
Consultants was decided by a Committee established by the Decree of the Minisiiy of Finance and
Economy /fonrerly the Ministry of Finance/ and the Bank of Mongolia and formed by respective
representatives of these authorities, the State Property Committee and the Trade and Development Bank.
The on-going revision of IDA Mission and its conclusionls assisted in overall assessmenit of consuIltanlts'
services. lioxvever, by assessment of the Bank there are certain needs to co-ordiniate disbursements of
financial fund flow handled by the Ministry of Finance and specify respective international accountinlg riles
applicable especially for local implementing institutions.
3.2 Lessons learned
Implementation of Twinning Arrangement was the first experience of the Trade and Development
Bank in availing internationally funded consulting services. Therefore there 3re certain issues to he
addressed.
*      C'lose co-ordination between IDA and the Govemnment Authorities on evaluation criteria of the
consulting services;
*      Training of the staff of local implenmenting institLtion on disbursement and( accounting i-tiles.
financial structiring and negotiation of contract awards, procedures of the WB and IDA covering specific
loans
*      Assistance of IDA Mission in monitoring of consulting services in line with the progress of
contracted works and possibly organization of joint discussions with contracted parties to enstire constilting
firm's and implementing institution's perfonnance timing and transparency
4. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
4.1    BoiTower's performance during development and implementation of the projeet
The Trade and Development Bank as Sub-borrower under the BELTA Credit established a
working group comprising management of each operational department of the bank as well as the executive
level managem1ent. The close work with the NBR LLC. consultants with the managemiienit of the bank by
exchanging opinions and organizing seminars had a positive impact on perfornance of consultants and
- 15 -



bank managemiient especially in co-ordinationi of the wide range of issues set forth in the contract lerm1 Thle
Trade and Development Bank considers that the following issues are essential in future improvement of
implementation of similar works
4.2     Lessons learned
Sinice the tasks of the consulting works are extensive and covering almost all areas of the banking
business for tile initial stage covering only the diagnostic and researchi activities on econoimic and finanlcial
environment, the international consultanits may avail sub-contracting opporttinities within the Mongolian
companies having an experienice in collection and summarizing statistical and financial data and having
worked with international teams. By these arrangement the consultants' timie costly wvorks may he
shortened allowing to follow other task under the contracted works and thus uSIIng the tilmle during Itheir visit
to Mongolia concentrating on1 discussionis with the Bank's financial and operational Issues It is desirable
to strmcture the consulting services in more efficient way by availing consultants with possibilities to stay
on a longer-term in the country and not overloaded witlh othier consulting commitmenits Except for thie
Infonmation Technology area the consulting works may be grouped according to the lcvel of task
requirements In this regard especially the works covering the bank's interinal MIS data collectioni may be
handled by the technical staff of the bank and remunerated accordingly tlhus providinig a cost saving
opportunity..
5.     DESCRIPTION OF EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT
Deliverables accordinig to contr-act
Total of 6 consultants i1citiding 4 Norwegian consultanits in field of strategic planning. bank
organizational structure, infonnation techinology and financial managemiient; I Australian consultanlt in field
of humani resource policy and marketing; and one consultant in field of loan and non-perf6ri-imng loan
managemiient were employed to fulfill above goals.
Deliverables are as follows as:
Diakgtnoslic anid Planning phase (a) Diagnostic review (b) Prelimiiliary strategic plan. (c)Analysis
of automlation needs and (d) Assessmncit of trainilng needs
Inplementation Phase. (e)Strategy development --workshops, (f) Organizational Developiment
-workshops, (g)Train and Trainers seminar, (I) Financial managemenit-seminars and In 11ouse training, (i)
Marketing on the job training and (j) Debt work out, workout procedures and training
Results of Program Implementation
The Twinning Program withl NBR covered diagnostic and development work. as well as partial
imlptementation within the following areas:
1.     Strategy and Organizationial Development
2      Marketing
3      Financial Management including treasury, MIS, and internal Audit
4.     Credit managemenit and Workout
5      IT and Automationi
6.     Human Resource management and training
- 16 -



The project work has been conducted with experts from NBR, the NBR owner banks, an(i
Paradigm Alliance (Australia).
Strategy and Strategic Planninig: In April 1998, strategic work g-oups consisting of most of TD Bank's
directors were established to collect and analyses data regarding the bank's external environmlenit. A series
of wor-kshops on strategic planning and organizational development are held with thle participation of senior
management of TDB and NBR consultants The Diagnostic Report focused on a review and assessmenit of
TD Bank 's existinlg position for its strategic plan and planning process The review covered the bank's
visioIl and goals, its existing strategic planning processes. The report was used directly as an input for- the
work shops. The bank's overall vision and strategic goals were concluded during the workshops. The
strategy document describing main strategies, main tasks, markets and products and related financial goals
was delivered. Documentation for the various steps of the strategy process have been made readily
available by the bank, and bank's management participated actively in the various process elements oi'tile
work. The bank considers the strategy work with NBR consultants as satisfactory, both witlh respect to the
bank's active participation and to the outcome of the process. The strategy plan for 1999-2002 approved
by the Representative Governing Board of TD Bank which banks is implementing its nlow.
Marketing:   A review  of the marketing function and a diagnostic report, along with detailed
reconmmendations, were completed. Further, strategic marketing goals were developed to support the
coriporate and marketing goals identified in the corporate Strategy workshlops. In addition to these key
deliverables, the TD Bank was provided with support and material in a nuimber areas, such as coaching in
mzarketing process, collection and analysis of marketing data, and ctustomer handling, as well as review of
functions of the Marketing department and the lob structure within the department.
Organizational review: Diagnostic work was performed. The report gave a description of the bank's
existing ftinctions, recommendations included increased focus on the bank's capacity to deal with curl--enit
and ftiture customers, on1 vagtue division of responsibility within senior management, and on time capacity
and capacity consumiing decision processes. The conclusions are being used in tihe current organization
development process. Organization overhead presentations delivered to the bank ii connection witi
workshops. Job descriptions for all first and second level management positions were preparecl and
presented by NBR. Strategy and organizational development at the corporate level are closely interrelated
In acknowledgement of this tlhe two areas were combined as one focus area
Financial management: In additional to Financial management the consultant also covered Interinal Atidit.
The diagnostic review was perfonmed. In connection with this work, A financial Analysis of the bank also
perfonned. The conclusions from the reviews have been an important element in the internal analysis of the
strategy development work. The consultant started development work in various areas of Financial
management   (Accounting System  data structure, Accounting system  processes. Treasury funiction,
Management Infonnation System (ALM), Statutory returns reconciliationi, Planning and Budgetinig system)
Financial management is one of the areas where the bank can benefit most from adapting to
modem best banking practices. The key to this standardized and module based proceduies and systemas.
development and implementation of new and vital functions for management and control (Treasuiy, MIS,
Plaining and Budgeting systems), and use of modemn IT solutions.
Credit management and Workout: From the start of the project the work in this area has included both
diagnostic and development related tasks in the credit management area, as well as concrete and practical
advise and assistance in the four workout cases specified under TOR. The diagnostic reports along with
- 17 -



recommenldationis and proposed solutionis weere presented. The consultanit has continued thc work with the
credit departimient by reviewing and analyzing existing policies and procedures, aInid by pJroposing newv
procedures covering areas such as ulidesirable loans, loans insiders, credit gr-ading/ risk rating and code of
ethics. A rcor-ganilzationi of the Credit depaitment has been proposed  NBR consultantts assisted TDB in
developing plans for restructiring or Liquidation of the defaulting enterprises NBR completed a viability
assessment Of Dornod carpet factory, which is recommended liquidation. NBR is also conducted a
comprelhensive diagnostic review of Ulaanbaatar carpet factory, includinig a viability assessment and a loan
restructurinig plan In addition to actively working with the fiour cases, the consultanit has also given
extensive in house financial analysis training to the Debt Workout unit staff. and drafted sevetal workolit
policies and procedures.
Automation needs: The diagnostic work was conducted. The diaginostic work also included several
meetinigs with other bank staff and external sources. The conclusions from the IT area werc iipolliat input
in the strategy workshops in September-, 1998 The consultant initiated several developimienit tasks, i.e
drafting IT strategy, developing and coachinig the bank staff in a budgeting model, discussionis on the Bank
of Mongolia, development project for commnon bank accounting system in Mongolia, and various prolcct in
interface between Financial management and IT As a consequenice of' the work, the bank initially decided
to invest in upgi-ading the current network in head office building, and replacing existing obsolete PC's
These investments made already in 1998, since they will be necessary componenit of' any IT strategy A
complete IT strategy was delivered to the Bank
At the end of the current project, a group of four bank staff members coverilng management,
accouniting and automation went to Oslo to see relevant banking IT solutionis and systeiiis in operation
There has been a mode of good co-operation and communication between the consultants and bank's
counterpart staff in the IT area. It seems to be a good understanding in the bank of' the basic and
management needs to be covered, while the bank has a strong need for support in givinlg the precise user
specifications necessary to invest in an investmenlt substantial IT solutions. The IT area will in the next few
years require highier investments under control, it is absolutely vital that the bank continues its IT
development with sufficient banking and IT advise and support.
IIuman resource management and training needs: A review of the HR area and training funlctioin and
diagnostic relport were completed, along with detailed recommendations for the IHR fuliction  A
comprehensive training needs analysis was can-ied out. The HR and training ftinctionis arc interrelated, and
recoimnendationis for the traininlLg funlctioni shouid support the general IHR activities of'thie bank In additioni
key deliverables the batik was provided with support and material, mainly covering developmiienit of
strategic HR goals from the corporate strategy, perfonnance managemenlt and appraisal, HR actionl
plannimg processes, and draft HR policies. Similarly the bank was provided wvith SUppOrt and referenice
material in training area, including a train the trainer workshop.  The bank was recomimlenided to
co-ordinate all intemal and external training activities in systematic.
Planning an Institutional Development Program: The bank was decided to present the IDP as the main
development priorities according to the strategy. The thiree main priority areas were (lecided to be:
Management training and human resources development related strategies. IT and automation system
including financial management areas, main investment decisions and implementationi support. Professional
training a according to strategy needs and approved training plans. Major development areas have started
as described above. Concrete plans for these development areas constitute the IDP  A draft plan for the
IDP containing the total scope of the development areas presented for the bank.
- 18 -



6.     SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION:                  The general coniclusioni As a rcsult of the first phase of
this project the bank's present position, strengths and weakiesses were determined in detail and necessary
measures to be taken for covering future development heeds.
6.2    Despite some deficiencies in the organization and quality of work of the consultants during the first
stage, thanks to the mutual trust and accurate cooperation betwveen two parties we have reached a
satisfactory perfonnance of our tasks
6.3    The Bank's IT development is the first priority. By improving the IT the Bank will have tile
possibility to develop more advanced MIS, introduce new approaches of financial management and new
modem banking products and seivices.
6.4    In additionl, strategy, organization and delegation of responsibility are importanit whicIh sIhould be
developed fuirther.
6.5    The Bank's present strengths and weaknesses lead to the point that in the second implementation
pilase should emphiasize on training and retraining of the bank's employees as essential step for its
institutional capacities
The importance of BELTAC sub-comilponent of the Commercial Bank linstituitionlal Development
lies in introducinig advanced techilology and know how in management of wester-ni bankinig practices in
TDB which created profound conditions for developing the bank towards introducing new pr-oducts and
services covering cuLstomers' needs, increasing the bank's competitiveness in tile bankinig and finanicial
market, maintaining its profitability and retum efficiency insuring customers confidence and( contribtitilig to
shareholders value.
PART B Public Enternrise Financial Restructurini
I.     BACKGROUND: Mongolia has faced many difficulties such as the slowing down in enterprise
activities while going through transfer from centralized and planning economy system into market oriented
economy. Because of the partial restructurinig of the banking system, tilere was a constanit lack in revolving
assets and, hence, the enterprise activities were stopped and were on the edge to bankniptcy. However, the
Govermnenlt of Mongolia was not inter-ested in banknipting these enterprises and it was (lecided to develop
a project on restiricturing enterprises, and to implement it. The loan agreement between the Government of
Mongolia and IDA for implementation of the project /BELTAC MOG-2948/ was signed on .July 31st 1997
and USS200.000 were granted for Public Enterprise Financial Restructuring sub-project.
2.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES: The overall objective of the project is to
evaluate financial, enterpnse and business activities of two enterprises, to do restructtiring of enterpi-ses,
and to ensure the stable performanice of enterprises, to use allocated funds and their repaymilent.
3.     DESCRIPTION OF EXECUTION OF TIIE PROJECT: Withiin the sphiere of the prolect, the
"Public Enterprise Financial Restructuring Guidelines" was approved from the Ministry of Finanice and
"Bid Evaluation and Award of Contract Guidelines" was approved from the State Property Committee
The selection process was conducted by working group, formed by the order No. 1 13, 155 of the year 1997
by the Head of the State Property Committee. The working group included representatives fromi Ministr-y
of Finance, Ministry of Food and Agriculture, State Property Committee and from each of the project
- 19-



mplementing enterprises.
The technical proposal selection of the project was done by woikinlg gioup on September 5-9 1997
In total 5 organizations submitted their proposal for the bid of which the Netherlands "B3MB managemenlt
consulting" company was awarded a contract and made a proposal to supervise the implemilenltationi ol the
project to the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Food and Agriculture and the State Property Committee.
The "BMB management consuiltinig" company has made "organlizationial restructuring evaluation" to
Darhani mini-metal plant and to Bagahangai meat plant, and concluded that with a tinancial assistance ol
US$3 1 million there would be established a favorable condition for two enterprises to conduct their
activities profitably. It was considered that the funds could be used for revolving resour-ce of assets to
purchiase scrap iron and to livestock. Hence, it was decided to develop a plan to implement the project
Based on the research calculations of "Darhan mini-metal plant" and "Bagalianigai meat plant". the
implemenitationi plan draft was developed and opinions from associated miniistries was collected within the
sphere of the Public Enterprise Finanicial Restricturinig sub-project. The "Business plan for 1998-2002"
was developed as a part of the implementation plan. Based on the positive conclusioni to this project,
US$2. I million of loan was granted to Darhani minii-metal plant and USS1 0 millioni of loan was granlted to
Bagahangai meat plant. After the implemilentation of the project, the stable perfoi-ianice of these two
enterprises was provided and their perfomiance was more stable thani in 1999-2001.
4.     IDA PERFORMANCE: For total amounlt of US$199233 was granted to the PLIblic Enterprise
Financial Restirictring sub-project from IDA and the Creditor has sufficiently performed its duties.
5.     TIIE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION: The "Itgel-audit" Co Ltd, whicil did the auditilng to
BELTAC MOG-2948 lproject, in its report submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Economily concluded
that the Public Entei-prise Financial Restructuring sub-project has been completed on Decemilber 3 1, 1999
The final result of the implemented project is that there was issued a decision to provide with World Bank
resources of funlds the restructurinig of the above two enterprises and resources for the revolving asset
6.     SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
Darhan mini-metal plant: By granting a loan for revolving assets in a total ainounit of US$ I 8000,
there was an increase in financial capacity for purchasing scrap metal and the final prodtictioin of
metal was 6343 tons in 1998, 8318 tons in 1999 and 9065 tons in 2000  The total sale was 2,9
hillion tugriks in 1998, 2,96 billion tugriks in 1999 and 3.1 billion tuLgiks in 2000. The increase in
sales and production shows the result of the project.
The Bagahanzai meat plan was awarded a loan in a total amount of USS 937.3 thousand in
1998-1999. The loan was used in purchiasing the livestock and expailding the limited techinological process
and hence, increasing the production from 167 8 tons in 1997 to 959 4 toins in 1998 or by 5.7 perceit. In
1999 the plant produced 1500.0 tons of meat and, hence, its production was increased 1,5 times than it was
in a previous year. As a result of the project the plant has the presence of favorable conditions to perform
its activities on a stable basis.
Part C:      Le2al Rcform
1.     BACKGROUND
I      Mongolia saw a major erosion of public confidence in the banking system in 1996, with the
- 20 -



collapse of a small private bank and the closure of two large banks that held approximately 5() peicent ol'
total deposits in the country. On December 13, 1996 the Government successfully closed two large
insolvent banks The 1996 banking crisis posed severe implications for inflation, financial control, and
growthi in the real sector. The authorities had to further resolve the banking crisis and consistently
implement strict macroeconiomiiic policies to restore stability. When Mongolia's commerlcial banks were
unable to offer effective financial intermediation due to a combination of tactors' a legacy of government
intervention in credit allocation, poor commercial banking skills, non-creditwor-thy borrowers and weak
management, the banking sector as a whiole hias become insolvent and illiquid In meanwhile. public and
privatized enterprises faced a variety of problems in conducting business, ringing from liquidity shiortages
and limited access to long-tenn credit, to diminishing markets and acute skills shoriages at the micro-level
2.     In September, 1996 the Goveniment of Mongolia together withi the IDA organiized a seminar at the
Trade and Development Bank of Mongolia to summarize 5 years of joint efforts in refonninlg economic.
financial and banking sectors of the country. Representatives of both, public and private instititiolis
actively took part in discussions and unanimously came to conclusioni that the absence of a proper legal
environment ulidenrnines economic refonn initiated by the Govenmment and at the end of the seminar a
summary of recommendations was developed Based on the findings of the seminiar, and to support the
Banking and Enterprise Sector Adjiustment program of the Govenmment (BESAC, IDA Credit Mr. 2947
MOG), aim of which was "to irestore the fuinctional efficiency and to support the institutional developmcnt
of the banking sector, and to iliprove the economic perfonrance of the enterprise sector..." the
Government of Mongolia sought for assistance the IDA to implemelit the Banking, Enierpri-se and Legal
Technical Assistance Project.
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTIVES
The total cost of the project was US$ I 2 million. The IDA's DCA was signed on .July 31, 1997,
and became effective only on November 26, 1997 due to problems with ratification of the ciredit by the
Parhiament of Mongolia. The Project inclLuded three components. This ICR refers exclusively to the Legal
component. The aim of this component was to improve Mongolia's legal envirolimenit for baniking,
commerce and enterprises through series of subprojects, in-country and overseas short-terimi traininig
courses, consultancy services and capacity building of related institutions.
3. IDA PERFORMANCE
a      IDA '.s pelformance drltirg development and implementation of ihe pro/eu!  Since the BELTAC
was a very first Legal Reform Project of the Bank in Mongolia, both parties had no previous experience ol
cooperation in that field, which was gained during the project. Change of Task manlagers and Country
lawyers of the Bank together with political instability within Mongolia, which led to resigigation ol 4
Governments within three years, had a detrimental effect in early stages of implemenitationi lAowever,
situation changed significantly from the second half of the project, when the above-menltioned shortfalls
were addressed.
b. Lessons learned
*      Better coordination between the donor organizations is required
*      Economic refonn has to be backed up with an appropriate legal environment
*      Legal reform projects would be efficient if have more complex and strategic approach, rather than
through segregated initiatives.
- 21 -



4. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
a.     Borrower 'v performance during cdevelopnienl cInd implenmentation olfthe prol e
A major difficulty in the implementation of tihe project was the lack of language expetience. interna.tlonal
procurement and banking procedures anid the lack of familiarity with IDA procedures There were maniy
legal concepts absolutely new to the Borrower, which demanded mtich more efforts, timie and f-unids tihan
iniitially was expected. Despite rapid change of Goveimments, the Borrower shiowed steady and consistent
commitment to the legal reform.
/7     Lessons learned
*      PIU should be pi-operly staffed and trained on the Bank's procedures before pr-olect beginis
*      Subprojects developed wlile the implementation process provide withi more flexibility, but are
more time-costly
*      Internal procedures for processing of payments shiould be revised and simplified
5. DESCRIPTION OF EXECUTION OF THIE PROJECT
Main objective of the prolect component was achieved: public trust to the bankinug system is restored and
legal environment for commercial banking and business is in place. This componlent was iliplement thrlougi
sub-projects. A brief description and outcome of each is set forth below.
Sub-Project No I A dual banking system was not present in Mongolia unitil 1991, wheni the first Law on
Bankinlg was adopted, and a monolithi Mongolbank was split in Central Batik of Mongolia, which preserved
the name of Mongolbank and Trade and Development Bank of Mongolia, the very first commcicial bank,
but still state-owned. The law was veiy general and both banks were regulated by two (lifferenit the law of
Mongolia was adopted in 1991 To meet the conditions of effectiveness, the PIlJ worked on drafting thle
Banking law and Law on Central Bank of Mongolia. Series of follow-up trainilgs and study-tours for
bankers, banking and govemment lawyers, judges, police officers, and prosecutors were conducted
throughiotit the componient's duration. Hand book on Banking principles is developed and disseminiated.
Sub-Project No. 2: Law on Insolvency was drafted and adopted. Number of in-country training courses lor
judges, trustees and lawyers is held, study-tours to different jurisdictions conducted, interpretation of tile
Supreme Court is issued. Training materials, such as video courses for judges and general public,
handbook on Insolvency are developed and disseminated
Subproject No 3: Law on Enforcemenit of .ludgements is drafted and being discussed by the Parliamilenlt.
Short-ter-im traininig courses for bailiffs organized. One national instructor on cilforcemenit ofijudgements is
trained in Genrany. All branches of enforcement office are provided withi two-way radio transceivers and
vehicles.
Sub-Project No 4: Immovable property registration office is provided with a detailed busilless plan
Registration software and hardware is installed successfully.
Sub-Project No 5: Training of staff of the Ministry of Justice and Home Affairs is conducted througi
number of separate courses, both in-country and overseas
- 22 -



(c) Othier parinerv (NGOv/prntiarc vector)
10. Additionial Information
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Perforniaiice Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1 Commercial bank institutional development n/a
(a) A twinning arrangement of the TDB with a                               Twinning arrangement successfully
reputable foreign bank, with a provision for a                             completed TDB strengthened and currently
possible continuing business relabonship                                   going through privatization proceedings
thereafter
(b) Debt Workout Unit capacity building to                                 NPL were reduced from 34% of total loans in
facilitate bank-led restructuring of defaulting                            2000 to 17 4% by June 2001
enterpnses
2 Public Enterprise Financial Restructuring
(a) Financial viability assessments completed                              The viability assessments were completed,
for the two largest public enterprise                                      the implementation of these plans were
defaulters to commercial banks Bagahangai                                  delayed due to the unavailability of working
Meat Company and Darkhan Mini-Metal                                        capital to carry them out
Company
(b) Recommendations for restructurtng or                                   Rather than adopt the low risk options of
liquidation and a schedule for repayment of                                bankruptcy (recommended by the
outstanding loans developed on the basis                                   consultants as the safer option), the
thereof                                                                    government decided to attempt restructunng
but had insufficient resources (working
capital and management expertise) to
implement this efficiently Political instability
(4 governments resigned) over this penod
also delayed the enterprise reform activties
and now the enterprises in question are more
indebted and probably less viable than ever  1
3 Legal Reform Program
- Establishment of the Protect Unit and the
Steenng Committee
- Implementation of subprolects
(a) Training on Banking principles and the                                 Training courses successfully completed
Banking Law and Law of Central Bank of                                     Handbook on Banking principles developed
Mongolia                                                                   and disseminated
(b) Law on Insolvency                                                      Drafted and adopted Several in-country
training courses for judges, trustees and
lawyers held
(c) Law on Enforcement of Judgments                                       |Training for bailiffs completed Two-way  i
radio transceivers and vehicles provided for
enforcement officers
(d) Immovable property registration office                                 First steps completed with the elaboration of
a business plan and installation of
registration software and hardware
(e) Training Ministry of Justice staff                                     Several training courses held both in country
and overseas
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
End of projcct
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
I           ~~~Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB            NCB          Other          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                          000           0.00          0 (            00            0 00
(O 00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0 00)        ((.(0)
2. Goods                         0 44           0.00          0.00           0 00          0.44
(0.44)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.44)
3. Services                      0 00           0.00           1.07          00            1.07
(0.0()         (0 00)        (1.07)         (() (0)       (I 07)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0 00          0 00            ( 00         0 00
(0.00)         ((.00)        (O 00)         ((.(00)       (0.0)
5. Miscellaneous                 ( 00           0 00          0.0)           () 00         0 00
(O.(0(0)       (O 00)        (0.(()         (0.00)        (O 00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0 00          0.0(           0 )0          (.(0
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0 00)
Total                         0.44           0.00           1.07          0 00          1 51
_    (0.44)         (0.00)         (I 07)        ((.0()        (I 5 1)
Figures in parcnthesis arc the arnounts to be finaiced by thc IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
IncludCs civil works and goods to be procure(d through national shopping, consulting services, sCIrvices of contracted staff
of the project management office. training, technical assistance services, and incrercental operating costs related to (i)
manlaginig the project, and (n) re-lending project fiunds to local governmeint units
- 25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Iiiptits
(a) Msiwons
Stage of Project Cycic                  No of Pcrsons and Specialty             Perbrfomance Rating
(c g 2 Economists, I FMS, etc )     ImplemcntationT Dcvelopment
Month/Ycar     Count          Specialty                      I'rogrcss     Objective
Identification/Preparation
I 1/1996
Appraisal/Negotiation
02/1997                      3   Economist, Operations
Officer, Senior Counsel
09/1997
Supervision
02/199X                      2   Financial Specialist,              S             S
Consultant
11/1998                      2   Leader, Senior Counsel             S             S
06/1999                      2   Task Team Leader, Senior           S             S
CoullSel
11/1999                      2   Task Team Lealer (Enterprise       S             S
mnd Banking), Legal
0)3/2000                         Legal                              S             s
ICR
(I7) .Statll
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actial/Latest Estimate
No Staff weeks               US$ ('0(0)
lIentificationi/Preparationi      Not available               Not available
Appraisal/Negotiationi            Not available               Not available
Supervisioni                      Not available                  148,367/a
ICR                               Not available               Not available
Total                             Not available               Not available
/a Total amouint includes Supervision through ICR.
Initially this project was a blended project with the Mongolia - BESAC Project. Therefore, an accurate
breakdown of staffweeks and USS is not available.
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=Hlgh SU=Substanlual. M=Modest N=Neglhgible. NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
M acro policiev                                 H  () SU  4) M  0 N      iVA
LI Sector Policwev                             D H  f SU 0 M    f N   ' A NA
[ii Plihsical                                 )H    OSU *M         N   jNA
Lii FInancial                                r) H  0 SU    )M   * N   OVA
RL Institlitioinal Development                 ) H  * SU r) A1     N     N VA
f7 Enviroinmental                             D H   0 SU ' M     ) N  * NA
.Social
I Pover-tv Rediction                '1i H   0 SU   i AI   ' N  *N4
Centcler                                I ./  SU     V ) M' 0 N  0 N,A
I Other (Plecasc pecily)              ) H  C) SU M,i A'! 0 N  ? NA
Pi Primate vector deevelopment                  H  0 SU C AM    ' N      N,1
L Piihlic vector managemnent                   i H  39 SU * M   0 N      /VNA
I Other (Please specufy)                     (3 H  C) SU    M   'A  N    N AI
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Higghly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactorv, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfiactory)
6. / Bank perforniance                              Raling
Z Lencding                                          'DHS *S         U      HC/
E Supervision                                        DHS     S    'S  U  : kIU
2 Overall                                           '. HS *S     'U     - fHU
6 2 Borrower performance                            Rating
2 Preparation                                        JHS *S      'U     ','HU
G Government imnplemnentation perfornmance            ) HS 0 S   0 U       X-l(J
V ImplemZentationi agency performnance              'HS       S  ' U       HU
2 Overall                                           OHS *S       ( U    "xH.ILU
-29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Tlie following documilenits are available LIpoIn request:
1. Development Credit Agreemenit - .uly 1997
2. World Bank supervision reports - 1999-2000
5 World Bank aide memoires - 1998-1999
- 30 -






IMAGING
Report No.:         24211
Type:      ICR



