Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2948 MOG
Development Credit Agreement
(Banking, Enterprise and Legal Technical Assistance Project)
between
MONGOLIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 31, 1997
CREDIT 2948 MOG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 31,1997, between MONGOLIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
Page  2
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any 
time, the Association determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to 
the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to  make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be 
cancelled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“BOM” means the Bank of Mongolia, the Borrower’s central bank, or any 
successor thereto; 
(b)
“Legal Reform Sub-project” means a specific legal reform sub-project to 
be carried out by the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice under Part C of the Project; 
(c)
“MOJ” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, or any successor thereto;  
(d)
“Program” means the program of banking and enterprise reforms as set out 
in the Borrower’s letter to the Association dated March 27, 1997; 
(e)
“SPC” means the Borrower’s State Property Commission, established by the 
Borrower’s Decree no. 177, dated July 31, 1996, or any successor thereto; 
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;  
(g)
“Steering Committee” means the committee established to provide guidance 
for the implementation of Part C of the Project as provided in Part C.1(b) of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement; and
(h)
“TDB” means Trade & Development Bank, a wholly state-owned commercial 
bank, established by Decree 3/19 of the Chairman of the Board of the State Bank of 
Mongolia dated January 11, 1991, or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
Page  3
various currencies equivalent to one million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 1,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1, commencing August 1, 2007 and ending February 1, 2037. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2017 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
Page  4
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of  
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III  
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.   
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
Page  5
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records, and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
control involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01 The date hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Khudaldaany gudamj-4
Ulaanbaatar
Mongolia
Telex:
719-79241
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  6
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
MONGOLIA
By /s/ P. Tsagaan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala 
Authorized Representative 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent) 
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
600,000
100%
services, study tours
          and workshops for 
Parts A and B of the Project
(2) 
Part C of the Project
(a) Consultants’ services  525,000
100%
          study tours and workshops
(b)  Goods                 375,000      100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
and 75% of local ex-
penditures for other
items procured locally
_________
                                 1,500,000
TOTAL
========= 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
Page  7
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
payments under Category 2 on account of payments made for any Legal 
Reform Sub-project, unless such Legal Reform Sub-project has been approved by the 
Association.  
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, services, study 
tours and workshops under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, and for 
training regardless of the cost thereof, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in designing and 
implementing  banking, enterprise and legal reforms in support of the Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Commercial Bank Institutional Development Development of the 
institutional capacity of TDB in areas including strategic planning and 
implementation, marketing, credit and financial management, internal audit and loan 
workout. 
Part B:
Public Enterprise Financial Restructuring Design and implementation of an 
enterprise restructuring program including the provision of consultants’ services for 
the carrying out of viability assessments of enterprises followed by the development 
of restructuring or liquidation plans for such enterprises.
Part C:
Legal Reform Design and implementation of technical assistance 
sub-projects to strengthen the Borrower’s legal framework for the banking and 
enterprise sectors, including provision of consultants’ services, training and goods.
* * * * * * * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures  
Page  8
1.
International Shopping 
Except as otherwise provided in Part B.2 of this Schedule, goods may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) 
and 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants 
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used. 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exception to 
prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such 
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a 
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, and (d) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
Page  9
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program  
A.
Project Implementation, Monitoring and Reporting
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) implement Parts B and C of the Project through SPC and 
MOJ respectively; (b) cause TDB to implement Part A of the Project; and (c) cause TDB, 
SPC and MOJ to make available competent staff in adequate numbers to be responsible 
for coordination and supervision of the implementation of the Project. 
2.  
The Borrower shall cause TDB, SPC and MOJ to maintain policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
3.
Without limitation on Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall 
cause TDB, SPC and MOJ to submit quarterly progress reports in a format acceptable to 
the Association within two weeks from the end of each quarter on the progress achieved 
in carrying out the Project during the immediately preceding quarter.
4. 
The Borrower shall: (i) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 1998 a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph 2 and 3 of this Part A, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; (ii) 
review with the Association, by February 28, 1999, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in (i) above; and (iii) thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
B.
Commercial Bank Institutional Development  (Part A of the Project)
For the purpose of implementing Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall make 
available to TDB the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part A of the Project on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.  
C.
Legal Reforms (Part C of the Project)
1.
In order to assist MOJ in carrying out its functions as the implementing agency 
for Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall cause MOJ  to:
(a)
maintain throughout the implementation of Part C of the Project, a Legal 
Reform Project Unit in MOJ staffed by at least one lawyer and an administrative 
assistant on a full-time basis each with qualifications and experience acceptable to 
the Association. The Legal Reform Project Unit shall be responsible for day to day 
management of Part C of the Project including:  
(i)
preparation of annual work programs; 
(ii)
design and preparation of Legal Reform Sub-projects for 
review by MOJ, the Steering Committee and the Association; 
(iii)
liaising with local stakeholders; and
(iv)
coordinating, supporting, monitoring and reporting on the 
implementation of Legal Reform Sub-projects; and (b)
maintain throughout the implementation of Part C of the 
Project a 
steering committee (the Steering Committee) 
composed of 
representatives of the public and private 
sector, including the 
Ministries of Finance and Justice, 
BOM, and commercial banks, and 
convene meetings of said 
steering committee at least on a quarterly 
basis to provide 
guidance on the implementation of Part C of the 
Page  10
Project 
including the design and implementation of individual Legal 
Reform Sub-projects as well as the priorities for legal 
reform. 
(c)
prepare and furnish to the Association, in a format acceptable to the 
Association, by September 1 and March 1 in each year, a workplan for the 
implementation of Part C of the Project for the next six calendar months.
2.
Legal Reform Sub-projects shall be selected in accordance with the criteria and 
procedures set forth below: 
(a)
The purpose and scope of each Legal Reform Sub-project, the method of its 
implementation and the specific allocation of proceeds of the Credit for such 
Sub-project shall be determined by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through MOJ, submit for the Association's prior 
approval, the proposal for each Legal Reform Sub-project in a form satisfactory to the 
Association.  Each such proposal shall include the following information:
(i)
a description of the objectives of the Legal Reform 
Sub-project including an analysis of the issues to be 
addressed by the Legal Reform Sub-project and a description 
of 
ongoing initiatives in the area covered by said  
Sub-project; 
(ii)
a description of the interventions to be implemented under 
the Legal Reform Sub-project and how they fit in with 
ongoing initiatives;
(iii)
a timetable for the implementation of the Legal Reform 
Sub-project;
(iv)
a budget covering the expenditures to be incurred for the 
implementation of the Legal Reform Sub-project, including 
an 
estimate of the foreign and local costs of the Legal 
Reform Sub-project 
broken down by major items and showing 
how these amounts are to be 
financed from the proceeds of 
the Credit and other sources, as well as 
a disbursement 
schedule;
(v)
a description of the expected benefits of the Legal Reform 
Sub-project, and a strategy for monitoring its success 
based 
on monitorable indicators to measure both Legal 
Reform Sub-project 
outputs and impact; 
(vi)
confirmation that the Steering Committee endorses the Legal 
Reform Sub-project; and
(vii)
such other information as the Association may reasonably 
request. 
3.
The Borrower shall, through MOJ, take or cause to be taken all reasonable 
measures to facilitate the work of consultants in the performance of their services 
for each Legal Reform Sub-project and make available to them all information relevant 
thereto. 
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that revisions proposed to Legal Reform Sub-projects 
that have been approved by the Association, including the amendment or waiver of any 
material terms and conditions of employment of consultants employed for any Legal 
Reform Sub-project, the agreement to substitute personnel of such consultants, the 
grant of any material extension of time specified for the carrying out of any 
Sub-project and the revision of the Legal Reform Sub-project budget, shall be 
submitted to the Association for approval. The Borrower shall promptly inform the 
Association if it proposes to suspend payments under or terminate any contract with 
such consultants.
5.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, in English, copies of: 
(i) the documents prepared by the consultants engaged for any Legal Reform 
Sub-project, including reports and drafts thereof; and (ii) the legislation prepared 
Page  11
under Legal Reform Sub-projects, in such number as the Association shall reasonably 
request. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 and 2 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $50,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 500,000.  
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  12
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
