Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16181
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
ECONOMIC MODERNIZATION LOAN
(Loan No. 3533-GU)
December 19, 1996
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Quetzal (Q)
1991: US$1.0 = Q5.04
1992: US$1.0 = Q5.27
1993: US$1.0 = Q5.82
1994: US$1.0 = Q5.65
1995: US$1.0 = Q6.04
1996: US$1.0 = Q6.00 (November 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BANDESA    Agricultural Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola)
BANVI         Housing Development Bank (Banco Nacional de la Vivienda)
CEM           Country Economic Memorandum
CORFINA       National Finance Corporation (Corporaci6n Nacional Financiera)
EEGSA         Electricity Corporation of Guatemala (Empresa de Electricidad de Guatemala)
EML           Economic Modernization Loan
FOGUAVI    Housing Fund of Guatemala (Fondo Guatemalteco para la Vivienda)
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IFMP          Integrated Financial Management Project
IMF           International Monetary Fund
INDE          National Electricity Company (Instituto Nacional de Electricidad)
INDECA        National Agency for Agricultural Development (Instituto Nacional de
Abastecimiento)
MIFIN         Ministry of Finance
NTB           Non-Tariff Barrier
SB            Superintendency of Banks
VAT           Value Added Tax
Acting Vice President       Mr. Gobind Nankani
Director                    Ms. Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Staff Member                Mr. Ian Bannon (Acting Lead Economist)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation  Summary .......................................................                                                                                              i-iv
PART I: Program  Implementation Assessment ........................................................1
A. Program  Objectives ........................................................1
Program  Design ........................................................2
Loan Restructuring ........................................................3
Constitutional Challenges  and  Program    Design ........................................................ 4
B. Achievement of Objectives ........................................................4
Improved Macroeconomic Environment ........................................................4
Strengthening Public Finances ........................................................5
Improving Public Enterprise Efficiency ........................................................6
Trade Liberalization ........................................................7
Promoting Financial Sector Reform ........................................................7
Social Sector and Poverty Alleviation .                                    ....................................................... 0
C. Bank Performance .......................................................                                                                                10
D. Borrower Performance ........................................................11
E. Overall Assessment and Key Lessons Learned ....................................................... 11
PART II: Statistical Tables .......................................................                                                                                       13
Table  1:  Summary  of Assessments ....................................................... 14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .......................................................                                                                       15
Table 3: Project Timetable .......................................................                                                                        16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements .......................................................                                                                       16
Table 5: Key Economic Indicators, Actuals and Projected, 1986-95 ............................. 17
Table  6:  Major  Studies  Included  in  the  Loan .......................................................                                                 18
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants ........................................................ 19
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions .......................................................                                                                 24
ANNEX I: Loan Restructuring: Principal Changes
ANNEX II: Borrower Assessment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othemuise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authQrization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
ECONOMIC MODERNIZATION LOAN
(Loan No. 3533-GU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Modernization Loan to
Guatemala, for which Loan No. 3533-GU in the amount of $120 million equivalent was approved on
November 2, 1992 and made effective on December 30, 1992. The loan was restructured on January 13,
1994.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1996, as compared to the original expected closing date of
September 30, 1994. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by December 30,
1992. Subsequent tranches were released on January 13, 1994 and January 4, 1996.
This ICR was prepared by Ian Bannon (Lead Economist, LADCN) and Jose R. L6pez-Calix
(Resident Representative, LADGT), based on a report by Manuel Lasaga (consultant), who visited
Guatemala in April 1996. The ICR was reviewed by Donna Dowsett-Coirolo (Director, LADCN). The
Borrower contributed to this ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project, which is included as
Annex II of this ICR.






ECONOMIC MODERNIZATION LOAN
(Loan No. 3533-GU)
GUATEMALA
Evaluation Summary
i.    Guatemala has been a sharply divided society dating back to the Spanish Conquest. The
distribution of income, land, and other assets is highly skewed, with much of the indigenous population
living in extreme poverty. Although Guatemala has the largest economy in Central America, erratic
macroeconomic performance and internal conflict prevented the achievement of sustainable growth during
the 1980s. When President Serrano was inaugurated in January 1991, the country faced a severe fiscal and
balance of payments crisis. The Government launched a program to stabilize the economy and lay the
basis for medium-term growth, and requested assistance from the Bank in the form of a structural
adjustment loan to support its economic program. In view of Guatemala's non-accrual status since July
1990, approval of new lending hinged on prior arrears clearance. On November 22, 1992, the Government
signed a Letter of Intent for an IMF Stand-By Arrangement, triggering the release of $50 million of US
bilateral support that enabled clearance of Bank arrears.
Program Design and Restructuring
ii.    The Economic Modernization Loan (EML) was the first Bank operation of its kind in Guatemala,
and it covered a very broad reform agenda. One of the main advantages of this design was that it provided
a comprehensive plan of action in the various areas in which Guatemala needed to move forward to achieve
sustainable growth. Officials interviewed for this report felt that the EML laid the groundwork for reforms
initiated in the past few years or being undertaken today.
iii.    At the same time, however, the complexity of the program in terms of coverage and number of
conditions in different areas exceeded both the Government's institutional capacity and political ability to
undertake reforms in different areas at the same time. Some components might have been more appropriate
as stand alone operations. The measures dealing with rationalization of activity in the electricity sector
could have provided the basis for a separate sector loan with emphasis on the development of an
appropriate regulatory environment. Also, the financial sector component was based on a questionable
diagnosis of some issues, possibly because of only limited consultation with the principal players in the
financial system during appraisal.
iv.    On November 24, 1992, the Bank approved the Economic Modernization Loan (EML) for $120
million equivalent. It consisted of three tranches, the first at effectiveness of $48 million, and two
additional tranches of $36 million each. The key objectives of the program were to: (i) strengthen public
finances through the implementation of a comprehensive tax package and reform of tax and customs
administration; (ii) improve public enterprise efficiency; (iii) further liberalize trade; (iv) promote financial
sector reform through restructuring public banks and improving prudential regulations and bank
supervision; and (v) intensify efforts to alleviate poverty by increasing allocations to basic health and
education services. The financial sector component was cofinanced by a $132 million loan from the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB).
v.    The EML was declared effective in January 1993. Shortly thereafter, in May 1993, the country
was engulfed in a crisis due to the attempted auto-coup by then President Serrano. Following a change in
Government, the Bank agreed to a request to restructure the EML. The Bank's decision to restructure the



- ii -
program was made to help: (i) preserve the economic reforms already undertaken by the previous
administration; (ii) provide timely financial support for the new administration over its critical first months;
and (iii) enhance the Bank's policy input into the design of the new Government's development agenda.
The Bank considered other options, but there was a sense of urgency in terms of resolving the country's
external liquidity problems and putting in place a reform program that would continue the progress
achieved to that point.
vi.    The restructuring was approved in January 1994, and the loan agreement was amended
accordingly.  The restructuring maintained the original objectives of the EML, but adjusted some
conditions and set new targets in line with the changed circumstances confronting the new Government. As
a result, it led to: (i) shifting a number of conditions from second to third tranche; (ii) revising and adding
new conditions for third tranche; and (iii) reconfiguring the size of the second and third tranches to $24
million and $36 million, respectively, to better reflect the new conditionality.
Achievement of Objectives
vii.    The restructured program supported by the EML adequately addressed macroeconomic imbalances
and has had a favorable impact on the performance of the economy. Preliminary results indicate that the
program has made a positive contribution to restoring sustainable economic growth.
viii.   Accomplishment of public finance objectives is rated as partial. Legal and political factors were
largely responsible for shortfalls in meeting tax revenue targets for 1993-94. Results for 1995-96,
however, point to a marked improvement in tax collection performance. Strengthening the tax base
continues to be a high priority of the current Government and a key element of its Public Sector
Modernization program.
ix.    Achievement of public enterprise efficiency objectives is considered partial. The agricultural
marketing board (INDECA) has been substantially downsized, ceased to intervene in grain markets and
leased some of its silo storage capacity. With respect to enhancing efficiency of the electricity companies,
the strategy was three-fold: (i) adjustment of electricity tariffs in line with long term marginal costs; (ii)
elimination of INDE's monopoly and development of an adequate legal and regulatory framework for the
sector; and (iii) a financial restructuring of INDE based on a revision of its relationship with EEGSA.
Based on the results so far, this was the weakest component of the program. Repeated attempts by the
Government to put into effect new electricity rates were nullified by the Constitutional Court, responding to
challenges of alleged human rights discrimination permitted under the 1986 Constitution. The Law of the
Electricity Sector was submitted to Congress as part of the third tranche conditionality, and was approved
in October 1996.
x.     The achievement of the trade liberalization objectives was substantial. The main goals of this
component were: (i) establishment of a narrower import tariff band; (ii) elimination of non-tariff barriers
(NTBs); and (iii) liberalization of hydrocarbon markets. Implementation of trade liberalization policies
was one of the outstanding features of the program.
xi.    The EML also initiated important reforms in the financial sector aimed at restructuring the state
banking sector and strengthening prudential supervision. Although two partial waivers of financial sector
conditionality were required for third tranche release, they are attributed to weaknesses in design rather
than lack of Government commitment to the program objectives. The objective of restructuring and
rationalizing state banks has been largely achieved.  During the initial period of the program, the
implementation of prudential regulations encountered strong resistance from the commercial banks. A



- iii -
study of the financial sector (not related to the Bank) appeared to have exaggerated the problems of the
banking system and, in the view of bankers, had led to the design of overly stringent regulations. These
issues might have been resolved with sufficient dialogue during the design phase, as -was done later by the
Government during program implementation. In addition, there was lack of coordination with IDB on the
design of conditionality relating to the independence of the Monetary Board. Despite these obstacles, the
achievement of the financial sector objectives is considered substantial.
xii.    Despite delays experienced by inefficient budget processes and resource constraints, achievement
of the social sector objectives was substantial. The current Government's Plan for 1996-99, as well as the
recently signed Socio-economic Peace Accord, have identified increased expenditures in the social sector as
a key priority. The experience of the EML has been very helpful in formulating these goals and identifying
the areas where institutional strengthening will be needed to ensure their implementation.
xiii.  In summary, the EML provided valuable support to the Government in articulating and supporting
its policy agenda, although the broad scope of conditionality proved difficult to implement fully in all
respects. Also, despite solid commitment by the new Government, certain measures in the program were
challenged by the Constitutional Court. Following the third tranche release in January 1996, a new
Government took office in early 1996 which has strongly supported the continuation of the reforms initiated
by the EML, and has been working hard both to complete the program's unfinished agenda and to develop
new initiatives that will further consolidate the reform process while attending to the -social needs of the
population.
Overall Assessment and Key Lessons Learned
xiv.   On the basis of the review of legal documents, supervision reports, and the findings of the ICR
mission, the EML is rated as satisfactory.  The program achieved most of its major objectives.
Compliance with specific loan covenants and conditions was satisfactory. Sustainability of most of the
objectives is considered likely. Some weaknesses were identified in the area of program design, which was
too complex in view of the institutional capacity, and in the design of the financial sector component.
Certain legal constraints that affected implementation of reforms were overlooked.  Despite these
shortcomings, the program resulted in improved economic performance and the new Government is
deepening the process of structural reform, with a strong focus on public sector modernization.
xv.    The most important lessons learned are:
*  Design of reform programs in countries without prior experience with Bank-supported adjustment
operations should aim for simplicity and compactness. Where a Government desires support for a
broad agenda-a situation that may commonly arise when a new, reform-minded government takes
office-it may be preferable to develop several sequential adjustment operations tailored to the
Borrower's implementation capacity rather than one large operation.
*  A realistic assessment of the Borrower's institutional capacity is critical to the success of a structural
adjustment program. Often, program design is based on consultations and negotiations with senior
government officials who themselves have limited experience within the large bureaucracies they
administer.  They may agree to actions that subsequently prove difficult to implement due to
insufficient technical capacity, or because middle-level and technical staff do not fully support the
reforms.



- iv -
*  In the development of a reform program, the importance of dialogue between the executive branch and
representatives of other sectors of society cannot be over-emphasized. Ownership and sustainability
must be based on a wider consensus.
*  The appraisal of programs which may involve a significant number of normative changes and a
complicated design of conditionality, should be based on a thorough analysis. The Legal Department
should be involved from the outset to enable it to examine and consider alternative legal approaches, if
any, to achieve the desired objectives.
*  While specificity is essential to avoid ambiguity with respect to adjustment loan conditionalities, some
flexibility is also called for. Where appropriate, achievement of objectives should be judged on the
basis of fulfillment of a critical mass of pre-defined actions, allowing the Borrower and staff some
discretion to revise conditions which, with hindsight, might have been poorly designed, or instances
where the same objectives were achieved through different means.



PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT'
1.     Guatemala has been a sharply divided society dating to the Spanish Conquest. The distribution of
income, land, and other assets is highly skewed, with much of the indigenous population living in extreme
poverty. Although Guatemala has the largest economy in Central America, structural constraints, erratic
macroeconomic performance, and internal conflict had prevented the achievement of sustainable growth
during the 1980s.
2.     After 35 years of military rule, the first civilian government was inaugurated in 1986.  The
Government attempted to restore macroeconomic stability and to redress some of the major economic
distortions by sharply reducing price controls, rationalizing import tariff levels and, in 1988, unifying the
exchange rate system. Fiscal policy loosened, however, when the 1987 tax reform failed to increase
revenues, and expenditures continued expanding. Insufficient fiscal revenue and foreign exchange in 1990
led to a rapid accumulation of external arrears, including to the Bank and IDB.
3.     When President Serrano was inaugurated in January 1991, the country faced a severe fiscal and
balance of payments crisis. The Government launched a program to stabilize the economy and lay the basis
for medium-term growth, and requested assistance from the Bank in the form of a structural adjustment loan
to support its economic program.
4.     In view of Guatemala's non-accrual status since March 1990, approval of new lending hinged on
prior arrears clearance. As a first step, partial debt service payments to the Bank were resumed in May
1991. Although arrears had not been fully cleared, the Bank had approved in April 1991 a newv policy of
providing assistance to countries with protracted arrears when these demonstrated genuine efforts to
normalize their debt service payments and to implement fundamental economic reforms.2  Guatemala's
strategy was to freeze arrears at $91 million and to seek a bridge loan from bilateral sources to clear those
arrears prior to Board Presentation of the Loan. By October 1991, the Government had cleared all arrears
with IDB. On November 22, 1992, the Government signed a Letter of Intent for an IMF Stand-By
Arrangement, triggering the release of $50 million of US support that enabled clearance of Bank arrears.3
A. Program Objectives
5.     On November 24, 1992, the Bank approved the Economic Modernization Loan (EML) for $120
million equivalent. It consisted of three tranches, the first at effectiveness of $48 million, and two additional
tranches of $36 million each. The key objectives of the program were to: (i) strengthen public finances
through the implementation of a comprehensive tax package and reform of tax and customs administration;
(ii) improve public enterprise efficiency; (iii) further liberalize trade; (iv) promote financial sector reform
through restructuring public banks and improving prudential regulations and bank supervision; and (v)
intensify efforts to alleviate poverty by increasing allocations to basic health and education services. The
financial sector component was cofinanced by a $132 million loan from the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB).
l The material in this section is drawn from: President's Report, Guatemala: Economic Modernization Loan, No. P-5858-GU,
and Guatemala: Building Peace with Rapid and Equitable Growth (CEM), No. 1 5352-GU, March 1996.
2President's Report, Additional Supportfor Workout Programs in Countries with Protracted Arrears, R91-70, April 1991.
3World Bank, Review of IBRD Policy on Workout Programs for Countries with Protracted Arrears, JAC93-17, April 1993.



- 2 -
6.    It was expected that implementation of the economic modernization program would raise tax
revenues, and thus allow for increased expenditures in the social sectors while maintaining fiscal discipline.
Trade and financial sector reform would promote a more efficient allocation of domestic resources. The
financial sector component would restructure state banks and strengthen competitiveness of private financial
institutions, and prudential supervision and efficiency of the financial system. The social sectors component
would increase coverage of and resources to social investment.
7.     The principal risks identified in the President's Report were: (i) the Government's ability to sustain
the necessary political consensus with Congress for program implementation; (ii) resistance on the part of
interest groups to fiscal and financial sector reform; and (iii) weaknesses in institutional capacity to carry
out the program.
Overall Program Design
8.    The EML was the first Bank operation of its kind in Guatemala, and it covered a wide reform
agenda. One of the main advantages of its comprehensive design was that it provided the Government with
a coherent plan that was based on an objective assessment of the country's needs. Government officials
interviewed for this report felt that the EML laid the groundwork for reforms being undertaken today.
9.    While the Government made a strong effort to achieve the objectives of the program, its complexity
in terms of coverage and number of conditions became a burden during implementation. Following a
restructuring of the EML, the third tranche included 49 legal conditions, many with a number of sub-
conditions. Perhaps the Government's own enthusiasm during loan preparation and appraisal, combined
with lack of experience with Bank adjustment operations and the Bank's own lack of experience with
adjustment programs in Guatemala, contributed to both parties' agreeing to an overly complex set of actions
required to comply with loan conditionality.
10.    The spreading of many conditions in different areas went beyond the Govermment's institutional
capacity, while some of the conditions appeared to be overly detailed and in some cases poorly designed. In
the case of the independence of the Superintendency of Banks, there was lack of coordination with IDB
conditionality. Greater knowledge of the steps involved in complying with each of the conditions during
appraisal might have resulted in a simpler and more direct design of conditionality. An altemative approach
might have been to consider a series of structural adjustment loans with an initial operation focusing on the
fiscal deficit and trade policy, followed by programs dealing with efficiency of resource allocation.4
Nevertheless, Govemment officials interviewed for this report pointed out that the design of a comprehensive
program provided a more consistent and longer-term framework for the Govenmment's economic reforms.
11.    Some components might have been more appropriate as stand-alone operations. The measures
dealing with power sector reform could have been used as the basis for a separate energy sector loan with
emphasis on the development of an appropriate tariff-setting process and regulatory environment. In tum,
the financial sector component could have been reduced to a few conditions, to be followed up with a
financial sector operation
4S. Webb and K. Shariff, Designing and Implementing Adjustment Programs, in Adiustnent Lending Revisited, World Bank
Symnposium, Washington D.C., 1992.



-3 -
Loan Restructuring
12.   The EML was approved on November 2, 1992 and declared effective on December 30, 1992.
Shortly thereafter, in May 1993, the country was engulfed in a political crisis.  Citing widespread
corruption, President Serrano announced on May 25 his decision to suspend portions of the Constitution,
and dissolve the Congress and Supreme Court. Strong and widespread opposition emerged to the President's
attempted auto-coup, and after a short period of intense political turmoil President Serrano was forced from
office. Ramiro de Le6n Carpio, ex-Human Rights Ombudsman, was elected President by Congress in June
1993. The crisis had an adverse impact on economic activity-political uncertainty paralyzed private
investment and led to a marked increase in tax evasion.
13.   At the request of the new Government, in the second half of 1993 the Bank embarked on
negotiations to restructure the EML. Due to a serious external liquidity problem, the Government also
asked the Bank to organize a Friends of Guatemala donors meeting in Washington to discuss emergency
financing. At that meeting on September 24, 1993, the Government received from a number of bilateral and
multilateral agencies funding pledges in the form of grants and bridge loans to help cover critical foreign
exchange requirements through early 1994.
14.   The Bank's decision to restructure the program was made in response to a very difficult economic
and political situation, and to the need for a smooth transition for the new administration. The Bank
considered other options such as cancellation of the program followed by the preparation of a new loan, or
extension of the closing date to allow the new Government time to establish credibility. However, there was
a sense of urgency to resolve the external liquidity problems and quickly put in place a coherent economic
reform program. The Bank and the Government felt that the EML remained relevant and could serve as the
overall framework to help the Government define its economic program This decision was also justified by
the Government's satisfactory compliance with the program prior to the crisis. A supervision mission in
February 1993 had reported satisfactory results regarding higher than expected fiscal revenues in 1992, and
a general perception that the program was basically on track. Some concerns, however, were raised over
slow progress in the restructuring of INDE, liberalization of petroleum prices, and implementation of
prudential norms in the banking system.
15.    The restructuring of the EML: (i) moved a number of conditions from second to third tranche; (ii)
revised and added conditions to support the original EML objectives; and (iii) reconfigured the size of the
second and third tranches from two equal tranches of $36 million to $24 million and $48 million,
respectively, to better reflect the restructured conditionality of the program. (A summary of the main
changes in the restructuring is provided in Annex I). Loan restructuring gave the new Government more
time to articulate its economic program and for the new President to deal with political problems which
persisted after the May 1993 crisis. In the final outcome the EML became the linchpin during the transition,
and was instrumental in keeping economic reforms generally on course.
16.    The restructuring was approved on January 13, 1994, and the loan agreement was amended
accordingly. The combination of a large number of loan conditions and a restructuring of the program in
mid-course presented some challenges in terms of documentation. Loan conditions were contained in four
documents: (i) the Loan Agreement; (ii) a document entitled Programa de Modernizaci6n; (iii) a letter from
the Government dated October 22, 1992 dealing with the tax administration component of the program; and
(iv) the amendment letter dated January 18, 1994 containing all the changes introduced by the restructuring.
Dispersing the conditions in different documents made it difficult to identify the legal conditions, especially
when some conditions dealing with the same objective were contained in different documents. It should be



- 4 -
noted, however, that these arrangements were a consequence of the setup requested by the Borrower at the
time of negotiations and accepted by the Bank.
Constitutional Challenges and Program Design
17.    One of the obstacles to implementation of economic reforms were legal challenges or injunctions
(amparos) based on the 1986 Constitution, which prohibits any laws or decrees that discriminate against
human rights.5 This legal tactic was first used in 1991, when President de Le6n Carpio was Human Rights
Ombudsman, to prevent the increase in electricity tariffs. When he became President, the use of this
mechanism by others proliferated as an attempt to block key economic reforms.
18.    While the amparo was meant as an instrument to protect the rights of citizens, it became a device to
derail the Government's economic policies. With respect to the EML, there were a number of instances in
which the Court issued an amparo which prevented implementation of conditionality. The three areas
affected by the amparo were: (i) the 1994 tax reform measure which established income tax withholding for
service providers; (ii) the adjustment of electricity tariffs in line with marginal -costs and for bulk sales from
INDE to EEGSA; and (iii) the issuance of a regulation by the Superintendency of Banks establishing new
criteria for classification of risk assets. In the first two instances the Court argued that the proposed
measures discriminated against the human rights of all citizens by curtailing their purchasing power.
19.    At the time of loan appraisal, appeals to the Constitutional Court to prevent implementation of
economic policies had not become prevalent. However, at the time of program restructuring during the
second half of 1993, this mechanism had already been applied to one of the loan conditions, and its use had
begun to spread to other areas of the reform agenda. Strong opposition by the commercial banks to the
regulation on asset classification issued by the Superintendency of Banks was challenged by the use of an
amparo in December 1992 just before loan effectiveness. IDB, in its Loan Document for the Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan wamed of the risk of legal challenges to economic policies. The IDB report stated
that the Government had already been successfully challenged in the Court regarding the implementation of
certain economic reforms, and for that reason IDB recommended some degree of flexibility in the design of
its conditionality whenever these involved the passage of laws or decrees.6 In these circumstances, Bank
staff should have taken these legal problems into account during program restructuring, or at least should
have identified this as one of the key implementation risks.
B. Achievement of Objectives
Improved Macroeconomic Environment
20.    The program supported by the EML has had a favorable impact on economic performance, and
plaved a key role in maintaining economic stability following the political crisis and the run up to the
December 1995 general elections. Despite the disruption caused by the 1993 crisis, the economy was able
to get back on track by the first half of 1994. The new Government which took office in January 1996
found a relatively stable macroeconomic situation, which allowed it to concentrate on the design of a new
5Whenever an individual or group want to stop actions taken by the Executive or Legislature they appeal to the Constitutional
Court. If the Court finds that there are sufficient grounds, it will issue an injunction (amparo) against such a law, decree or
action until arguments are presented by both sides and a final decision can be made. This latter process can take up to two years
to resolve, and during the past several years the Court has moved very slowly on all these cases.
6 IDB, Guatemala: Programa de Modernizacion del Sector Financiero, Propuesta de Prestamo, October 1993, page 45.



comprehensive structural reform program, centered around public sector modernization.  In addition,
continuing progress in peace negotiations bodes well for renewed confidence and growth.
21.    The principal macroeconomic indicators improved during program  implementation.  Table 5
compares key indicators during the six years prior to program implementation (1986-91), to the period since
its implementation (1992-95).7 Average economic growth improved from 3.3 percent to 4.4 percent. Gross
fixed investment increased from an average of 13.7 percent of GDP during 1986-91 to 15.4 percent by
1995. Average inflation fell from 28.8 percent over 1986-91 to 8.4 percent in 1995, largely due to improved
fiscal policy, with the deficit averaging below 1 percent during the program period.
22.    The external sector has been a weakness in the macroeconomic framework. The current account
deficit increased markedly from 2.4 percent of GDP in 1991 to an average of 5.9 percent in 1992-95.
Improved export performance was insufficient to offset higher import demand triggered by trade
liberalization and higher growth. The deficit has been covered by strong, albeit volatile, capital inflows
which, however, have not prevented a steady deterioration in the import cover of foreign reserves.
Strengthening Public Finances
23.    A key aim of the Government's public sector program was to raise the low level of tax revenues in
order to create additional room to finance social expenditures. Improved revenue performance was to be
achieved through a combination of new tax measures and more efficient tax and customs administration.
Conditionality was set in terms of implementation of action plans for tax and customs administration, and
specific tax revenue targets. Accomplishment of the public finances objective was partial. Tax revenues in
the first semester of 1994 were 8 percent below the target set for the restructured third tranche and thus
required waiving this condition. For 1994 as a whole, tax revenues fell to 6.8 percent of GDP. Despite
these shortfalls, which were caused mainly by legal and political factors, tax revenue collections recovered
strongly in 1995, and are expected to reach 8.5 percent of GDP in 1996. The other third tranche partial
waiver required for this component (off-loading data systems from the central mainframe) did not materially
affect achievement of overall program objectives and is being supported under the ongoing Integrated
Financial Management Project.
1992               1993                1994            1995      1996
Target    Actual    Target    Actual   Target'   Actual    Actual   Projected
Tax Reven. (% GDP)    7.7       8.4       8.0       7.8     Q2,650m   Q2,450m     7.8       8.5
First semester only, equivalent to an annualized rate of 8.1 percent of GDP.
24.    Measures to increase tax revenues included raising the VAT rate, simplifying the rate structure,
expanding the base, and enhancing tax administration and enforcement capabilities. The revenue shortfalls
in 1993 and especially 1994, can be largely explained by the aftermath of the 1993 political events, the
decision of the Constitutional Court to issue an injunction against income tax withholding, and the political
crisis which resulted in Congressional delays in the passage of critical tax reform measures. In addition, it is
likely that there was an optimistic assessment of the impact of tax reform. In particular, the expected
revenue neutrality of tax reform did not materialize. The decline in tax revenues resulting from the reduction
in the number of income tax rates, which aimed at simplifying tax enforcement, was probably greater than
the increase in revenues from expansion in the tax base. The revenue base continued to improve in 1995 and
it is expected that additional measures in force in 1996-an increase in the VAT rate to 10 percent in
7Although the EML was approved by the Board in November 1992, the Government had already implemented a number of
major reforms as Board presentation conditions, in line with Bank policy of support for countries with protracted arrears.



- 6 -
January 1996 and passage of an extraordinary income tax for 1996-97-would raise the revenue effort to
about 8.5 percent of GDP in 1996.
25.    Significant progress has been made in tax administration. The Fiscal Analysis Department in the
Ministry of Finance (MIFIN) has developed an aggressive work program and is consulted on a regular basis
regarding their estimates of tax revenues. The data bases for cross-referencing of tax contributors have been
expanded as agreed under the program. In addition, legislation to give MIFIN greater powers to pursue tax
evasion, which would allow criminal charges against tax evaders, was approved in June 1996.8 Customs
reform, however, has proceeded at a much slower pace than expected. Negotiations are nearing completion
for the concession to a private sector company to build and manage container inspection facilities at the
major ports. The databases for electrical goods, textiles and vehicles have been developed. The one for
chemicals is in progress.
Improving Public Enterprise Efficiency
26.    Achievement of public enterprise efficiency objectives is considered partial. The goal of improving
enterprise efficiency focused on the agriculture marketing board (INDECA) and the electricity companies
(INDE and EEGSA). With respect to INDECA the goal was for the Govemment to withdraw from
intervening in agricultural markets. The goal for the electricity companies involved a restructuring of that
sector as well as a financial restructuring of the two enterprises.
27.    Agricultural Grain Markets. As confirmed by supervision missions, INDECA has ceased to
intervene in grain markets, leased 35 percent of its silo storage capacity, and reduced its staff to about 145.
A minor concem is that continuation of its operations, although mostly in a passive role of administering its
fixed assets, gives rise to the risk that INDECA could resume market operations. If in the future the
Govenmment were to decide to influence grain prices through market intervention, the fact that INDECA has
leased its storage capacity would not prevent it from simply sub-leasing them again from the private sector.
The key issue in the achievement of this objective is that the new Govemment is committed to a policy of
non-intervention in grain markets.
28.    Electricity Sector. The strategy for enhancing efficiency in the electricity sector was three-fold: (i)
adjustment of electricity tariffs in line with long term marginal costs; (ii) elimination of INDE's monopoly
and development of an adequate legal framework for the sector; and (iii) financial restructuring of INDE by
reducing subsidies to residential consumers and for bulk purchases by EEGSA from INDE. This has been
the weakest component of the program. At the time of this report none of the above strategies had been
successfully implemented. In fact, 2 of the 8 partial waivers required for third tranche release were caused
by lack of compliance with the conditions related to this component.
29.    Lack of compliance with the program objectives for the electricity sector was largely caused by
factors outside the control of the executive branch. The Bank and the Government had reached agreement
on the methodology that would be applied to the calculation of the rate adjustments. However, repeated
attempts by the Government to put into effect new rates were nullified by the Constitutional Court. The first
attempt occurred in September 1994, when the Court issued a temporary injunction against lINDE's rate
increases, but without deciding on the substance of the matter. The second and third attempts were made in
February 1995 and July 1995, but the Court declined to review them pending its decision on the first
attempt. After the third attempt was suspended, the Court ruled that the human rights of the consumer had
8 Tax evasion remains high. VAT evasion is estimated at 56 percent, and customs and income tax evasion in the range of 40-65
percent (World Bank, CEM, 1996).



been violated in the first attempt. Finally, a fourth attempt in September 1995, failed when the Court
temporarily accepted another appeal lodged by the Human Rights Ombudsman.
30.    INDE's financial restructuring, also affected by Court decisions, was only partially met. While the
subsidy to residential consumers has been substantially reduced, and steps were taken to improve INDE's
debt situation, the Court decision prevented the reduction and elimination of the cross subsidy between
INDE and EEGSA. In fact, INDE tariffs on bulk sales to EEGSA were raised but could not be made
effective due to the Court injunctions.
31.    Despite these difficulties, the current Government has continued to follow the sector reform strategy
supported by the EML, focusing on adoption of a new legal and regulatory framework. The draft Law of
the Electricity Sector, which was prepared with considerable technical support from the Bank, was
submitted to Congress as part of third tranche conditionality. Its approval was delayed by the change in
Government and Congress in early 1996, as well as technical issues raised within Congress. The Law was
approved in October 1996 and provides for the creation of an independent Regulatory Commission, with
qualified technical staff, to evaluate and set electricity tariff levels.9
Trade Liberalization
32.    The achievement of trade liberalization objectives was substantial. The principal goals were: (i)
establishment of a narrow import tariff band (5-20 percent with only 5 rates); (ii) elimination of non-tariff
barriers (NTBs); and (iii) liberalization of hydrocarbon prices and markets. As a result of the program
restructuring a new condition was added calling for the submission to Congress of a bill providing for a
regulatory framework for the hydrocarbons sector. With respect to tariffs and NTBs, the Bank and the
Government were on the same wavelength regarding its design and implementation. The implementation of
trade liberalization policies was an outstanding feature of the EML program.
33.    The agreement to liberalize the retail prices of gasoline, diesel-oil, and liquefied petroleum gas
(LPG) in containers was substantially complied with. All prices were liberalized except for LPG in
containers of less than 40 lb. The Government was concerned that removing the cross subsidy on LPG
would have an adverse impact on the poor, given that there was a substantial margin between domestic and
international prices (40 percent). The current Government is in the process of making adjustments to these
prices in order to raise them to international levels by year end. In terms of hydrocarbon markets, the
Government is taking additional steps to facilitate the entry of new gasoline retailers, the registration of fuel
trucks for direct use by distributors or industrial users, and the entry of new importers.
Promoting Financial Sector Reform
34.    The EML supported reform  of the state banking sector and the strengthening of prudential
supervision. Achievement of the financial sector objectives is considered substantial. The restructuring of
state banks was achieved with some delays. The Monetary Board introduced new regulations and prudential
norms aimed at enhancing the soundness of the financial system and the Superintendency of Banks was
strengthened.  The adoption of prudential regulations initially encountered strong resistance from
comrnercial banks, but the Government was able to resolve these differences through dialogue and
negotiation with the banks. Although two partial waivers of financial sector conditions were required for
9 Although the draft Law proposed the creation of a fully autonomous Regulatory Commission, the Government was unable to
secure the two-thirds majority in Congress required for the establishment of a new autonomous agency. The approved Law
creates an independent Regulatory Commission within the Ministry of Energy.



- 8 -
third tranche release, they were attributed to weakness in design rather than lack of Government
commitment.
35.    Restructuring State Banks. The goal of the EML was to rationalize the role of the state in
financial intermediation through a restructuring of existing intermediaries (BANDESA, BANVI, and
CORFINA ), through downsizing or sale of operations, and to the extent possible, redeployment of financial
intermediation activities to the private sector.
36.   The specific goal for BANDESA was to develop and implement a restructuring plan that would
reduce its size and focus it on serving primarily small-farmers. A first plan was submitted at the end of
1992 which proposed an administrative reorganization with greater emphasis on decentralization, but
progress was interrupted by the political crisis in 1993. Subsequently, as progress was made in the peace
negotiations and the need to improve conditions in rural areas began to figure more prominently, the
Government submitted to Congress a bill proposing the liquidation of BANDESA, to be substituted by a
new two-tier bank, BANRURAL. Although BANRURAL's organizational structure is noticeably more
complex than its predecessor and a number of concerns remain over its operation,'° the program objective of
reforming the rural financial system toward small farmers is being pursued.
37.   BANVI has ceased to operate as a bank, although it still exists as a legal entity. The remaining
staff is dedicated to loan administration, since all other functions have been transferred to two local banks.
In November 1995, the Government submitted a bill to establish a Fund for the Development of Housing
(FOGUAVI) along with the closure of BANVI. If this law is approved by Congress, the Government still
needs to decide how to liquidate the bank which currently has a negative net worth of Q 100 million. During
program implementation a partial waiver was required for third tranche release because BANVI had not
reduced its staff below 100. The need for a waiver, however, was the result of poor design rather than
inadequate commitment. Clearly, the intent was to close BANVI but setting the conditionality in terms of
staffing was the wrong target. As of late 1995, BANVI had about 200 employees-(down from 438 two
years earlier), of which only 5 were permanent and the rest on temporary contracts (of which about 50 are
part of an IDB project ending in 1996). A more appropriate condition would have been for BANVI to cease
operating as a bank and still earn a profit (since its old portfolio is still being serviced). This may have
achieved the same results without imposing what may have appeared as arbitrary, head-count targets.
38.    Downsizing of CORFINA has been achieved. Liquidation of its assets continues but at a slower
pace than originally expected. Multiple bidding attempts for the sale of assets have been made, but response
has been disappointing. Greater flexibility in adjusting prices and making significant discounts would be
desirable.
39.   Improving Prudential Regulations and Banking Supervision.  The program  of prudential
regulations covered many areas and included extensive overlap with the conditionality of IDB's Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan." Adoption of prudential regulations encountered strong opposition from the
commercial banks. A prior study of the banking system (not related to the Bank) had drawn a parallel
between Guatemala and other countries in the region which experienced a major financial crisis, and came to
the conclusion that the Guatemalan banking system was on the verge of a severe crisis. It now appears that
these concerns were exaggerated, but they led to the design of conditionality that was perceived as
unreasonable and overly stringent by the banking community. Relations between the Superintendency and
I World Bank, CEM, 1996.
About two thirds of the 49 conditions dealing with financial sector reform in the IDB loan overlapped with EML conditions.



- 9 -
financial intermediaries became very antagonistic and led to a Constitutional injunction. In 1994, the
Government established a Financial Modernization Commission which, through dialogue and negotiation,
was able to agree with the financial community on the implementation of improved prudential norms. The
principal areas of Government actions dealing with prudential regulations are outlined below. In view of the
large number of decrees and other changes in the original banking legislation that were issued in piecemeal
fashion, it would have been helpful if the Government had re-issued the banking law with the amendments
passed in their corresponding sections.
* Classifi cation of risk assets: After the initial problems regarding Superintendency regulations on
classification of risk assets, a revised version was accepted by the banks. Banks are required to review
all their risk assets at least once a year.
*  Regulatory capital: Government actions went beyond the scope of the program by adopting the Basle
risk-adjusted capital standards. This internationally-adopted system of rating capital adequacy will
facilitate the analysis by overseas banks of their correspondent banks in Guatemala.
*  Loans to affiliates and related parties: Limits and controls were established on a partial definition of
affiliates and related parties based on the actual operating relationship between two or more
corporations. However, this definition leaves out a very important internationally accepted component
dealing with affiliation through common stockholders or directors. In Guatemala, if two or more
companies have the same stockholder(s), they are not considered as related. An expansion of the current
regulation to include the broader definition of affiliates and related parties would be desirable.
*  Loan refinancing: Because unsecured lending had been limited to one year, banks traditionally rolled-
over these loans in order to provide greater flexibility to the borrower. Ever since the limit was extended
to three years, the use of roll-overs has been reduced significantly. The Superintendency keeps a close
watch on banks' use of roll-overs and includes this information in its supervisory evaluations.
*  Central risk unit database: This component of the program has not become fully operational.12 The
major problem is the refusal of banks to provide the necessary information because they argue that the
Constitution guarantees bank secrecy. The main concern of banks is that divulging this information to
the Superintendency could compromise the security of their clients. However, in many cases it is the
leak of information directly from commercial banks that has led to their clients' security problems. At
the same time, the Government, through MIFIN's Internal Revenue Division already handles highly
sensitive information about corporations and their stockholders. Nonetheless, it can be argued that had
there been a better dialogue with the banking sector or adequate sector work, this obstacle could have
been noted and analyzed at the time of appraisal.
40.    Banking supervision has continued to improve. The quality of Superintendency staff has improved
and the frequency and length of on-site supervision has increased. The Superintendency has recently begun
to apply the CAMEL rating system to individual banks."3 Areas where further improvements appear
necessary include: (i) stricter standards regarding evaluation of risk assets; (ii) a fully operational central
risk unit database; and (iii) adoption of a broader definition of loans to affiliates and related parties.
12 While the second tranche release memo states that a credit clearing house was established and rendered operational, the
current data base does not contain adequate information.
13'The CAMEL is an internationally accepted methodology for rating financial institutions based on capital adequacy, asset
quality, management capabilities, earnings strength, and liquidity.



- 10-
41.    A key aim of the financial sector reforms supported by the Bank and IDB was the creation of an
independent Superintendency. This objective was substantially met, but a waiver was required largely
because the specific conditionality was not well coordinated with IDB. Bank conditionality specified
granting the Superintendency legal independence, whereas the Government had agreed with IDB on
functional independence. For this reason, the Government was under the impression that Decree No. 23-95,
which granted the Superintendency functional, not legal independence (i.e., Superintendency decisions may
be overruled by the Monetary Board), complied with the conditionality of both Banks. Although technically
the Superintendency can be overruled by the Monetary Board-itself an independent authority-it is
expected that this would only occur if the Superintendency were to exceed its legal authority. In the final
analysis, it is the Superintendency's expertise, professional standards, objectivity, and credibility within the
financial system that will determine its effectiveness, not whether it is functionally or legally independent
from the Monetary Board.
42.    The reforms introduced by the EML have produced tangible results in terms of the financial
performance of commercial banks. Return on equity has averaged 20.4 percent during 1993-95, or 9.0
percent in inflation-adjusted terms. Net interest spread has averaged a healthy 6.7 percent of assets.
However, little improvement has been noted in efficiency, which is an indication that banks should place
greater emphasis on cost reductions. Another area of concern is the health of the loan portfolio and
adequacy of reserves. In September 1995, loans classified C, D, and E represented 4.2 percent of total
loans, yet past-due and overdue loans represented 7.4 percent of total loans in bank balance sheets.
Social Sectors and Poverty Alleviation
43.    The objective of the EML in the social sector was to establish a mechanism to assure adequate
public expenditure allocations for primary education and preventive health care. Due to the pervasive nature
of poverty and inadequate coverage of basic services, the program appropriately focused on these two key
areas, and set realistic targets on the magnitude of resources to be allocated to these sectors.
44.    While simple and pragmatic, the social sector component still ran into problems, but Bank staff
were able to make the necessary adjustments in conditionality to assure the achievement of the objectives.
The basic problem was a lack of institutional capacity to implement the budget in the health sector. A
rampant use of budget transfers materially altered Government expenditures in relation to the original
budget. In health, this practice led to sizable transfers from preventive care to the large public hospitals
which in turn are afflicted by huge cost overruns. When the program was restructured, the social sector
conditions were effectively tightened to prevent transfers from primary care to hospitals.
45.    Despite the delays experienced and the budget problems, the achievement of the social sector
objectives was substantial. In addition, the current Government's Plan for 1996-99, as well as the recently
signed Socio-economic Peace Accord, include medium-term targets for increased social sector expenditures.
The EML experience was very helpful in formulating these goals and in recognizing the institutional
limitations to their implementation.
C. Bank Performance
46.    Overall Bank performance in the EML is assessed as satisfactory, based on satisfactory
performance in terms of identification, preparation and supervision. Because of program design flaws,
however, its performance in the appraisal (and restructuring) phase is rated as deficient (Table I .C). One of
the salient features of Bank performance was that it was instrumental in working with both Governments to



- I1 -
define the economic policy reform agenda, to provide a consistent framework for its implementation, and to
assure a transition to a new Government following the political crisis. Government officials from the current
and past administrations interviewed for this report repeated their acknowledgment of the Bank's
contribution through the EML. The reforms supported by the loan provided the Government with a
comprehensive and longer-term policy agenda, while the conditionality helped to keep the program on track.
Further appreciative comments were received regarding the Bank's decision to restructure the program in
1993. A cancellation of the loan at that time would have dealt a serious blow to the credibility of the new
Government, especially with the donor community. Since President de Le6n Carpio assumed office without
a defined economic agenda, Bank support through a restructuring of the program was instrumental in
maintaining the continuity of earlier reforms.
47.    Bank performance in terms of identification, preparation and supervision assistance was
satisfactory. The Bank correctly assessed the reform agenda, the Government's firm commitment to a
reform program, and extensive preparation work was marked by close work between Bank staff and
Government officials. An exception was the financial sector, where more dialogue and consensus building
with commercial banks might have prevented some of the implementation problems. Gaps at the time of
appraisal, however, required intense supervision efforts and an active policy dialogue. Bank appraisal was
deficient, since some of the problems encountered during implementation can be attributed to design
weaknesses: (i) the potential for improvement in tax revenues as a result of tax and administrative reforms
was overestimated; (ii) the possibility of certain legal constraints to implementation of reforms were
overlooked by the appraisal teams, especially the potential threats arising from the claims before the
Constitutional Court; and (iii) some conditionality was, by its own nature, overly detailed and inflexible, and
the program was burdened with an excessive number of conditions, which did not take into account the
Government's limited implementation capacity.
48.    Bank relations with other multilateral and bilateral entities was satisfactory. -Cofinancing for the
financial sector component of the program was provided by IDB. Coordination between the Bank and the
IDB contributed to the coherence of the two operations, except in one key condition: the legal independence
of the Superintendency of Banks, that the IDB only required to be _functional. At the request of the
Government the Bank organized a Friends of Guatemala donors meeting in Washington in September 1993
to mobilize support for the Government in dealing with the economic effects of the political crisis.
D. Borrower Performance
49.    Borrower performance in terms of identification, implementation and covenant compliance was
satisfactory. This evaluation takes into consideration the unexpected change in Government in 1993 which
resulted in the formation of a new economic team, and as a consequence changes in key officials associated
with EML implementation.
50.    From the start, the Government was highly committed to this program. During preparation and
appraisal the Government provided extensive cooperation, and this continued throughout the period of the
loan. However, the Government was unable to overcome the legal obstacles presented by the Constitutional
Court to the implementation of certain conditions.
E. Overall Assessment and Key Lessons Learned
51.    Sustainability of the Program. Sustainability of the major objectives of the EML is considered
likely, based on: (i) strong commitment to the program by the new Government; (ii) a favorable
macroeconomic environment; and (iii) continuing Bank support for further reforms, now focusing on public



- 12 -
sector modernization. This includes: (i) a follow-up Integrated Financial Management Project (IFMP),'4
which aims to strengthen the financial management capability of the Government; and (ii) support for the
Government's medium-term Public Sector Modemization Program.'5 The Bank also established a Resident
Mission in Guatemala, which should strengthen the policy dialogue and support for the reform process.
52.    Overall Assessment. Based on the ICR's review of the overall EML program and the likely
prospects for the sustainability of the reforms, the EML is rated as satisfactory. The program achieved
most of its major objectives. Compliance with specific loan covenants and conditions was satisfactory.
Sustainability of the objectives is considered as likely. Some weaknesses were identified in program design,
which was too complex in view of the country's institutional capacity. In terms of appraisal, there were
some poorly-designed conditions, and the possibility of legal obstacles was overlooked by the appraisal team
and the Guatemalan counterpart. It is possible that at the time of loan restructuring the Bank could have
taken the opportunity to reduce and simplify conditionality. Despite these shortcomings, economic impact
has been favorable and the overall program objectives are strongly supported by the current Government.
53.    Key Lessons Learned. The most important lessons learned are:
*  Design of reform programs in countries without prior experience with Bank-supported adjustment
operations should aim for simplicity and compactness. Where a Government desires support for a broad
agenda-a situation that may commonly arise when a new, reform-minded government takes office-it
may be preferable to develop several sequential adjustment operations tailored to the Borrower's
implementation capacity rather than one large operation.
*  A realistic assessment of the Borrower's institutional capacity is critical to the success of a structural
adjustment program. Often, program design is based on consultations and negotiations with senior
government officials who themselves have limited experience within the large bureaucracies they
administer. They may agree to actions that subsequently are difficult to implement due to insufficient
technical capacity, or because middle-level and technical staff do not fully support the reforms.
-  In the development of a reform program, the importance of dialogue between the executive branch and
representatives of other sectors of society cannot be over-emphasized. Ownership and sustainability
must be based on a wider consensus. Effective coordination with other cofinanciers should also be
promoted to help prevent lack of coherence in the conditionality design.
*  The appraisal of programs which may involve a significant number of normative changes and a
complicated design of conditionality, should be based on a thorough analysis. The Legal Department
should be involved from the outset to enable it to examine and consider alternative legal approaches, if
any, to achieve the desired objectives.
*  While specificity is essential to avoid ambiguity with respect to adjustment loan conditionalities, some
flexibility is also called for. Where appropriate, achievement of objectives should be judged on the basis
of fulfillment of a critical mass of pre-defined actions, allowing the Borrower and staff some discretion
to revise conditions which, with hindsight, might have been poorly designed, or instances where the same
objectives were achieved through different means.
14 President's Report, Integrated Financial Management Project, Report No. P-6598-GU, May 1995.



- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:       Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
B. Program Sustainability
C. Bank Performance
D. Borrower Performance
E. Assessment of Outcome
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans
Table 3:       Project Timetable
Table 4:       Loan Disbursements
Table 5:       Key Economic Indicators, Actuals and Projected, 1986-95
Table 6:       Studies Included in the Loan
Table 7:       Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:       Bank Resources: Missions
15 The program, currently under discussion, envisages an agreed longer-term, comprehensive public sector reform strategy,
followed by a series of discrete technical assistance and adjustment operations to support different elements of the program.



- 14 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Acliievemeit of ObjecLives                       Substantial        Partial       NNegligible         N/
Macroeconomic Policies                                    Vt
Sector Polcies                                                            $
Financial Objectives                                                                                      $
Institutional Development/
Physical Objectives                                                                                       V
Poverty Reduction 
Gender Concerns                                                                                           $
Other Social Objectives                                :
Environmental Objectives                                                                                  $
Public Sector Managzement.V
Private Sector Development                                                                                V
......._..._.......... . . .     __..... .. ..... ...... .. .. .
13. Prc;graam Siistainiabiiity                                 ,kl [A!5sbz..    jiAw.l.  k          Im.iicertain
...........   ..   .........v  .   _ ......  .    . _. .... ...............   ....... 
C. Bank Performance                                  High  Satisfactor   I   Sat         ory          Deficient
Identification                                                                       $
Preparation Assistance                                                               V
Appraisal                                                                                                *
Supervision                                                                          V
~~~~~~ .. .               ..........-..... ......
I:. Borrow9er Performiiance                                                |             _       I    _ _-
. .... _ . . _ _ _ __ ._........                                       .       _........   .   .... . ._..
Preparation                                                                          V
Implementation                                                                       V
Covenant Compliance                                                                  V/
F. Assessment of Outcome                    Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactorv            Highly
Satisfactor|   Unsatisfactory



- 15 -
Table 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
LoAan Title                        Main Purpo.e             Vi  lY             StatuY
Prece.dng Operations               _ Imp rove m
Basic Education II                   Improvemcnt of quality and efficiency  1988      Under implementation
(Loan 3003-Jil-)                     of fnrimarv ediucation                                              '.
*Parallel perauion
Social Investment Fund               Improvement of basic health, nutrition  1992     Under implementation
(Loan 3534-GlJ)             _        and cducation services                 _            .
Followvig Operations                                                           :-_-_-_-
Integrated Financial Management Loan   Improvement of efficiency and        1995      Undcr implementation
(Loan 3895-GU)                       accountability of decentralized financial
management functions
Public Sector Modernization          Civil service and institutional reform              In preparation
within central government and judicial
sector strengthening
Basic Education III                  Strengthening institutional base of                 In preparation
primary educational programs
Second Social Investment Fund        Official assistance to priority social              In preparation
investment needs                 _



- 16 -
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
SteiCP  in the Project Cycle         Date Planned               Date Actual
Original Loan
Identification                      March 1991                April 1991
Preparation                         July 1991                 July 1991
Appraisal                           October 1991              February 1992
Negotiations                        January 1992              March-April 1992
Letter of Development Policy        October 1992              October 1992
Board Presentation                  October 1992              November 1992
Signing                             November 1992             December 1992
Effectiveness                       November 1992             December 1992
First Tranche Release               November 1992             December 1992
Request for Amendment               August 1993               September 1993
Amendment Agreement                 December 1993             January 1994
Effectiveness                       January 1994              January 1994
Second Tranche Release              January 1994              January 1994
Third Tranche Release               June 1995                 January 1996
Loan Closing                        June 1996                 June 1996
Table 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
FY 93                  FY 95                   FY 96
Appraisal Estimate (US$m)                    120.0                    --
Actual (US$m) *                        48.0 (lst. Tranche)    24.0 (2nd. Tranche)     48.0 (3rd. Tranche)
Cumulative (US$m)                            48.0                    72.0                    120.0
Date of Tranche Disbursements          December 30, 1992        January 13, 1994        January 4, 1996
* Original disbursements of US$ 36 million for both the Second and Third Tranche releases were changed by the
Restructured EML, Schedule 1: Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan.



- 17 -
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS, ACTUALS AND PROJECTED, 1986-95
(% unless otherwise indicated)
Acluals                     1           Bank Projections'
1986-90    1991    1992  :.3    1994   1995            .1993   1994    1995
GDP growth                          2.9      3.7    4.8     3.9    4.0      4.9           4.0    4.0      4.0
Inflation (average)2               22.5    35.1   10.2    13.4   12.5       8.4           7.9   10.0      8.0
Investment/GDP                     13.0    14.3   18.3    17.2   15.7    15.4            18.1   18.1    18.5
of which: Private                 10.3    11.9   15.9    14.6   13.3    13.1            15.9   15.9    15.7
NFPS Balance/GDP                    -2.0    -0.2    1.1    -1.1   -1.3    -0.0           -1.6   -0.2      0.3
Tax revenues/GDP2                7.7      7.3    8.4      7.8    6.8      7.8          8.0    8.0       8.0
Current expenditure/GDP         11.1      8.4    9.5      9.5    8.7      8.7         10.1    9.8      9.5
Public fixed investment/GDP      2.7      2.4    2.4      2.7    2.4      2.3          2.5    2.4       3.2
Export growth                      -1.4    -0.1    6.3       5.9   15.4    27.8           3.1    4.8      4.9
Import growth                       5.0      7.7   36.7     2.7    7.0    18.4            5.4    1.9      1.9
Current Acct. Deficit/GDP           4.8      2.4    7.6     6.6    5.4      4.0           7.8    7.3      6.6
Reserves (months of imports)2        1.9     5.1    3.2      3.5    3.2     2.3           3.1    3.3      3.0
Commercial banks (%):
Retum on Equity3                  28.4    37.3   29.8    21.6   21.0    18.6            n.a.    n.a.     n.a.
Loans in arrears3                 10.0      4.3    3.3     3.5    2.8      7.4          n.a.    n.a.     n.a.
Efficiency4                       70.3    66.3   77.3    79.8   81.2    74.9            n.a.    n.a.     n.a.
Projections are from the President's Memorandun entitled "Guatemala - Restructuring of the Economic Modernization Loan".
2 Projections are from agreed IIF-based Program targets.
3 Averages of 1989-90 only available.
'Averages of 1988-90 only available.



- 18 -
Table 6: MAJOR STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE LOAN
:SWY...."t.... Pupose.                          Due Bg                              Actual Date
1. Prepare an Action Plan of tax  Support of public finances      Board presentation           Nov. 2, 1992
and customs administration.
2. Status of tax administration  Support of public finances       2nd tranche release          Oct. 9, 1993
indicators
3. Fulfillment of conditionality for   Support of public finances  3rd tranche release         May 27, 1994
tax administration
4. Status of tax administration  Support of public finances       3rd tranche release          Sep. 21, 1994
indicator
5. Prepare an action plan of     Assist in restructuring public banks  Board presentation
restructuring of BANDESA
6. Status of the restructuring of  Assist in restructuring public banks  3rd tranche release   May 24, 1995
BANDESA
7. Preparation of a methodology to   Improve financial performance of   2nd tranche release    Jan. 26, 1994
estimate LRMC and an action plan   INDE
to adjust electricity tariffs and
reduce subsidies
8. Review of the Law of the      Demonopolize the electricity sector  3rd tranche release      Jun 14, 1995
Electricity Sector
9. Legal analysis of the injunctions   Improve financial performance of   3rd tranche release  Nov. 17, 1995
by the Constitutional Court against  INDE
the electricity tariff adjustments
10. Preparation of an action plan to  Improve prudential regulations  Board Presentation       Nov. 22, 1992
reorganize the Superintendency
11. Present analysis of bank     Improve prudential regulations   3rd tranche release          Nov. 17, 1995
liquidity requirements
12. Revision of import registration   Eliminate non-tariff barriers  2nd tranche release       Dec. 14, 1993
of fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides,
and other chemical products
13. Review of the Law of the     Liberalize prices in the         3rd tranche release          Nov. 16, 1995
Hydrocarbons Sector              hydrocarbons sector
14. Audit of the Roosevelt and San   Assist in shifting social    3rd tranche release         July 1994
Juan de Dios Hospitals           expenditures toward primary health
care



- 19 -
Table 7: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Loan A greerent  ktioi  ...J.                 Deskription of Covenant          .  .          Comments
General Condition.           Maintain a stable macroeconomic framework                     Condition met.
PmbhIic fnig'm c' 's-
Schedule 5, No. 1 (b)        The amount of revenues collected, or likely to be collected, in  Compliance with a
respect to all taxes applicable during the first semester of Fiscal  lag and required a
Year 1994 are not lower than Q.2,650 million Quetzales.      partial waiver.
World Bank Memorandum on   --Tax Administration Action Plan
the Revised Administration   Maintain levels of analysis and model usage.                  Condition met.
Action Plan, Objective 1.1.  MamtamIlevels of analys___and_model usage.                    Condition met
Ibid, Objective I.2.         Incorporate tax code changes in models.                       Condition met.
Ibid, Objective II. 1.       Have completed operational unit and expanded tax collection  Condition met.
contracts to all banks.
Ibid, Objective 11.2.        Offload the accounting, budget, payroll, and supplier systems from   Substantial
the central mainframe.                                       compliance and
required a partial
waiver.
Ibid, Objective 111. 1.      Design and fund an adequate training program.                 Condition met.
Ibid, Objective IV. 1.       Develop and implement audit standards and targets as well as a  Condition met.
reporting system.
Ibid, Objective IV.2.        Initiate cross-checking of annual income tax data with sum of  Condition met.
monthly VAT returns.
Ibid, Objective IV.3.        Fully implement the VAT stop-filer system.                    Condition met.
-Customs Administration Action Plan
Ibid, Objective V. 1.        Develop databases for electrical goods, textiles and chemical  Condition met.
products.
Ibid, Objective V.2.         Provide the central custom's chemical laboratory with adequate  Condition met.
equipment and materials to carry out its analytical tests. Subscribe
to a minimum of 25 catalogues for valuation purposes. Maintain an
operational database for maquila entries
Puhlic .Sector A¢ir          
--INDE
Economic Modernization       The Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed that the automatic  Partial compliance
Program, Section: Public     adjustment mechanism for tariffs has been adequately and duly  and required a
Sector Reform-INDE, item 1.   used, and electricity rates, which shall have reached 90%  of waiver.
marginal cost, as calculated in accordance with the Methodology (as
defined in Second Tranche release), have been put into effect and
are being maintained.
Ibid, item 2.                Reduce subsidies for residential consumers, and reduce and  Partial compliance
eliminate subsidies, for bulk purchases by EGGSA from INDE.  and required a
waiver.



- 20 -
Ibid, item 3.                 The Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank an action plan,  Condition met.
satisfactory to the Bank, to achieve 100% of marginal cost, as
calculated in accordance with the above Methodology, at some point
during 1995.
Ibid, item 4.                 The Borrower shall have furnished to the Borrower's Legislative  Condition met.
Branch, a draft law, satisfactory to the Bank, for the electricity
sector.
Ibid, item 5.                 The Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank an action plan,  Condition met.
satisfactory to the Bank, to reduce significantly reduce the burden of
INDE's debt so as to make it financially manageable, such plan to
include, if necessary, the disposal of INDE's assets and/or services
in a fashion and within a timetable that would enable INDE to
cancel its debt with the Borrower's Treasury and other relevant
Borrower's agencies, and to generate funds to service INDE's
external debt.
Economic Modernization        -- INDECA                                                      Condition met.
Program, Section: Public      The Government will maintain a policy of non-intervention by-.
Sector Reform, INDECA, item   INDECA or any other agency of the Borrower in the basic grains
1.                           (i.e. maize, rice, beans, and sorghum) market.
Ibid, item 2.                 INDECA will have disposed of an aggregate of not less than 25% of  Condition met.
the silo storage capacity by selling, renting or leasing the
corresponding facilities.
Ibid. ilCill 3.               Temporary and perinaiieiu slaffol INDE(CA %%ill not exceed 290.  Conidilion mcl.
Trad. geforM
-Customs Tariffs
Schedule 4, No. 6.            The import tariff positions have been reduced to not more than 5  Condition met.
within a range of 5 percent and 20 percent, both of the C.I.F. (cost,
insurance and freight) value of the goods in question, in respect of
all goods imported to Guatemala; provided, however, that in respect
of textiles, clothing and shoes, the aforesaid range will only apply as
of January 7, 1994.
-- Non-tariffs Barriers
Economic Modernization        The Borrower will have submitted draft legislation to Congress to  Condition met.
Program, Section: Trade       abrogate the provisions of such Congress's Decrees No. 40-74 and
Reform, item 1 (a).           No. 102-84 which have enabled the establishment of export licenses
for (i) basic grains, (i.e. yellow maize, rice, beans and sorghum) and
(ii) cardamom, and the provisions such Congress's Decrees No. 446
and 44-72 which have enabled the establishment of import licenses
for fertilizers, pesticides, fungicides and herbicides, and animal fats,
respectively; and the Borrower's Executive Branch will have taken
all actions on its part required to abolish the aforesaid licenses as
well as those for kenaf seeds (import) and scrap metal (export).
Ibid, item l(b).              Subject to successful negotiations of current regional agreements  Condition met.
with other Central American countries on the issue, the Borrower
will have submitted draft legislation to Congress to eliminate import
licenses for cattle on the hoof enabled by Decree No. 104-84.



- 21 -
-- Government Pricing Policies
Economic Modernization          The Borrower shall have liberalized retail prices of all petroleum   Substantial
Program, Section: Trade         products, diesel-oil, and liquefied petroleum  gas in containers, and  compliance and
Reform-Petroleum Prices, item    maintained liberalized the retail prices for the other oil products.  required a partial
(a).                                                                                                waiver.
Ibid, item (b).                 The Borrower's Executive Branch shall have submitted to the  Condition met.
Borrower's Legislative Branch a bill, satisfactory to the Bank,
providing for a regulatory framework for all participants, public or
_____________   _private. in the hvdrocarbons sector.    .   ......
Reformjef Sta iwnmiai insnilutions   ____- --                         .      . ...-
Economic Modernization          --Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (BANDESA)
Program, Section: Reform of    The Borrower and the Bank will have agreed that BANDESA has  Condition met.
State Financial Institutions-   not received any non-reimbursable transfers from the Borrower.
BANDESA.
Ibid, item 3.                   The Borrower and the Bank will have agreed that BANDESA is  Condition met.
making satisfactory progress with the implementation of the agreed
upon restructuring action plan by meeting, by meeting the
monitorable targets agreed to by both the Bank and the Borrower
prior to second tranche release.
- Banco Nacional de la Vivienda (BANVI)
Economic Modernization          BANVI will have prepared a progress report which will list and  Condition met.
Program, Section Reform of      review the status of assets sales, including description and appraisal
State Financial Institutions:   of assets, and data on sales realized expressed in Quetzales and as a
BANVI, item 1.                  percentage of total assets.
Tbid, item 2.                   BANVI will have reduced staff to no more than 100 temporary and  Substantial
permanent employees.                                               compliance and
required a partial
waiver.
- Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CORFINA)
Economic Modernization          CORFINA will have prepared a progress report before every tranche  Condition met.
Program, Section Reform of      release, which will review  the status of assets sales, including
State Financial Institutions:   description and appraisal of assets, data on sales realized expressed
CORFINA, item 1.                in Quetzales and as a percentage of total assets.
Ibid, item 2.                   CORFINA will have reduced staff to no more than 21 temporarv  Condition met.
__________________     ~and   permanent em ployees .....__
.                                                                  ... ... ..  ...   .  and   pe rmanent emplovees __ ............................................. _ _ _ ......    .. ...... ... . . . ...... ......
Iinancial Sector Modernization_
-- Prudential Norms
Economic Modernization          Market Entry: The Borrower's Executive Branch has issued norms,  Condition met.
Program, Section: Financial     satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes referred to in the condition
Sector Modernization-           stipulated in paragraph 1, Market Entry, for second tranche release.
Prudential Norms, Third
Tranche Release, item 1.
Ibid, item 2.                   Capital Adequacy and Requirements: The Borrower has submitted  Condition met.
to Borrower's Congress draft legislation, satisfactory to the Bank,
rescinding all exemptions from capital requirements.



- 22 -
Ibid, item 3.               Loan Classification: The Monetary Board (MB) shall have issued a  Condition met.
resolution, satisfactory to the Bank, that shall have superseded
Superintendency of Banks (SB)'s Acuerdo No. 20-92, and -the
Borrower and the Barik shall have agreed that SB has made
satisfactory progress in implementing all actions required to comply
with the provisions of the aforesaid MB's superseding resolution.
[bid, item 4.               Liquidity Requirements: Completion of the study initiated pursuant Condition met.
to second tranche release criteria and adoption of recommended
actions.
Ibid, item 5.               Rollover Practices: MB shall have issued a resolution, satisfactory to  Substantial
the Bank, amending MB's resolution JM-520-92, and the Borrower  compliance and
and the Bank shall have agreed that SB has made satisfactory  required a partial
progress in implementing all actions required to comply with the  waiver.
provisions of the aforesaid MB's amending resolution.
Ibid, item 6.               Accounting Standards: The Borrower and the Bank shall have  Condition met.
agreed that satisfactory progress has been achieved in adjusting
banks to comply with new accounting standards as set forth in the
revised norms to be issued by MB pursuant to the conditions
stipulated in paragraph 6, Accounting Standards and External
____________________________  Audits, for Second Tranche release.
[bid, item 7.               External Audits: Completion of external audits of all banks.  Condition met.
Ibid, item 8.               Managing Problem Banks: MB shall have approved the text of draft Condition met.
bills, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the matters referred to
in paragraph 7, Managing Problem Banks, for Second Tranche; and
the Borrower's Executive Branch shall have submitted such draft
bills to the Borrower's Congress.
-- Bank Supervision
Economic Modernization      Independence: MB shall have approved the text of a draft bill  Substantial
Program, Section: Financial    satisfactory to the Bank on the matter referred to in the conditions  compliance and
Sector Modernization-Bank   stipulated in paragraph 1, for Second Tranche release; and the  required a partial
Supervision, Third Tranche  Borrower's Executive Branch, shall have submitted such draft bill to  waiver.
Release, item 3.            the Borrower's Congress.
Ibid, item 1.               Reorganization Plan: Implementation of all actions under the  Condition met.
reorganization plan referred to for Second Tranche release will have
been completed.
Ibid, item 2.               Financial Institutions: The Borrower and the Bank will have agreed  Condition met.
that the system and surveillance referred to for Second Trance
release are fiiictioiiiiig in a satisfactory mnanner.
Social: Sector Dievelopment and Poverty Alleviation
Schedule 4, No. 4 (c).      Evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, has been furnished to the Bank  Condition met.
showing that a budgetary framework, satisfactory to the Bank, shall
have been adopted by the Borrower's Ministry of Public Finance for
the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health for the purposes of: (i)
classifying separately expenditures (including all recurrent and
investment expenditures) for the provision of primary and
preventive health services from expenditures for the provision of
hospital services; and (ii) enabling the issuance of monthly reports,



- 23 -
to be issued by the Borrower's Ministry of Public Finance upon the
end of each calendar month, on budgetary allocation, for and budget
execution by the Borrower's Ministry of Health during the month in
question; such reports to begin with the report in respect of the
month of January 1994.
Schedule 4, No. 4 (d) and   Budget execution measures, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have  Condition met
Ministerial Agreement No.   been put into effect, which measures will: (i) prevent transfer of
196-93, Article Nos. 1 and 2.   funds allocated for preventive and primary health care to hospital
care; and (ii) ensure that eventual budget cuts during 1994 will not
alter substantially the ratio between budgetary allocations for
expenditures in respect of the provision of hospital services.
Ministerial Agreement No.   The Borrower shall have increased, by not less than 10 percent, in  Condition met
196-93, Article No. 3.      respect of the Borrower's Executive Branch budget proposal for
1994, the budget allocation that includes only resources for non-
personnel services and supplies for the "Jefaturas del Area -de
Salud" in each of the Borrower's Departments of Huehuetenango,
Quichd, San Marcos, Solola, Totonicapan and Petdn, as such an
allocation is shown in the Ministerial Agreement No. 196-93, that
individualizes the amount for that allocation from the global
amounts shown in the proposed 1994 budget submitted by the
Borrower's Executive Branch to the Borrower's Congress.
Ministerial Agreement No.   Evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been furnished to the  Condition met.
196-93, Article No. 4.      Bank showing that the budgetary funds to be used during 1994 in
the operation of the Quetzaltenango, Retalhuleu, Quiche and
Huehuetenango hospitals will not exceed from the amounts
allocated for such operation in the Borrower's Executive Branch
budget proposal for 1994, in respect of the Borrower's Ministry of
Health, submitted by the Borrower's Executive Branch to - the
Borrower's Congress, as such allocation is shown in the Ministerial
Agreement No. 196-93 from the Borrower's Minister of Finance
dated November 16, 1993 that individualizes the amount for such
allocation from the global amounts shown in the aforesaid 1994
budget proposal.
World Bank Memorandum on   The Borrower shall have furnished evidence to the Bank that the  Condition met.
the Revised Administration  action plan (Programa de Racionalizaci6n) recommended by the
Action Plan, items 29 and 30.   Borrower's independent auditing of the operation of the Roosevelt
and San Juan de Dios hospitals (including audits of these hospitals'
administrative, financial and accounting practices) has been
effectively implemented.
Schedule 4, No. 4 (b) and   The applicable social sector targets have been met or are likely to be  Condition met
Ministerial letter.         met, showing that public investments in fiscal year 1994 in primary
and preventive health care and in initial and primary education will
not be inferior than 50 percent of total public investments in health
and education and will not be inferior in real terms than those of the
previous fiscal year.
Ministerial Agreement No.   The investment plan agreed on public investments in primary and  Condition met.
196-93 and Schedule 4, No. 4   preventive health care, and in initial and primary education, is
(b).                        being implemented; and the Borrower is likely to fully implement
such a plan, all in accordance with the objectives, actions and
targets of such plan.



- 24 -
Table 8: BANK RESOURCES
Stage vf .he Project Cycle         Month/Year      No, of Persons  Staff Weeks      .:VSs
Original Loan::
Through Appraisal                     Sep 1991-Jan 1992        11             174.0         335,686
Appraisal through Board Approval     Feb-Nov 1992              6              104.5         227,222
Board Approval through Effectiveness  Dec 20-30, 1992          3                5.5          11,254
Supervision                          Jan-Apr 1993              9               35.4          91,447
Loan i4structurin*
Request for Amendment                 Sep-Oct 1993             7               22.2          52,555
Amendment Agreement through          Nov-Jan 1994              4               42.4         113,576
Effectiveness
Supervision                          Apr 1994-Aug 1995         13              90.6        207,961
Completion                           June 1996                 3                7.3          23,339



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
LOAN RESTRUCTURING: Principal Changes
The principal changes to program conditions were:
I.     Strengthening of public sector finances:
Total tax revenues for 1993 to be 8 percent of GDP, down from 9 percent. This change
responded to the impact of the political crisis in May 1993.
II.    Improving public enterprise efficiency:
INDE: new conditions were added which included: (i) to prepare an action plan to de-
monopolize INDE; (ii) to reduce subsidies for residential consumers and on bulk purchases
by EEGSA from INDE; (iii) to prepare an action plan to reach 100 percent marginal cost
pricing during 1995; (iv) to submit a draft law for the electricity sector; and (v) to prepare
an action plan to resolve INDE's debt problems.
III.   Liberalizing trade policies:
The Bank agreed to the adoption of a different import tariff band than contained in the
original agreement, if the new tariffs were part of a Central American Common Market
agreement on trade.
Petroleum prices: liberalization to be extended to retail prices, and submission of draft
legislation on regulatory aspects of the hydrocarbons sector.
IV.   Reforming the financial sector:
The following conditions on implementation of prudential norm shifted to third tranche: (i)
loan classifications; (ii) rollover practices; and (iii) preparation of draft law on management
of problem banks.
A stronger condition was added which called for legal independence of the Supenrntendency.
V.    Social Sectors:
Targets on public sector spending on primary health care were made more specific and
described in greater detail. New conditions included: (i) that no transfers be made from the
budget for preventive health services to hospital care; and (ii) financial audits of the major
public hospitals to identify source of cost-overruns.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
i



ANNEX II: BORROWER ASSESSMENT
GOVERNMENT EVALUATION REPORT OF THE
ECONOMIC MODERNIZATION LOAN
I.    RECENT ECONOMIC EVOLUTION
The first priority of the Govemment that took office in 1991 was to stabilize the economy country,
which was necessary in order to establish the basis for an economic recovery. Also, with the purpose of
strengthening the stabilization process and of promoting economic and institutional reforms oriented
towards sustained economic growth, the Government adopted a medium-term global stabilization and
adjustment program (Economic Modemization Program -PME-) in which four action areas were defined:
(i) modemization of the public sector; (ii) strengthening of the trade regime; (iii) modemization of the
financial sector; and (iv) development of the social sector.
At the end of 1991, a favorable behavior of the main macroeconomic variables was observed. The
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) showed an increase of 3.7%, higher than the 0.6% increase observed the
year before. As far as public finances were concerned, a budgetary surplus of Q5.7 million was observed,
which contrasts with the Q710.8 deficit registered in 1990, and the arrears due to the Inter American
Development Bank were canceled. In the monetary area, the restrictive measures contributed to reduce
inflation to 9.1%, and to maintain a stable and realistic exchange rate which, on average, was set at
Q5.06/US$1.00, therefore allowing the interest rate to show a decreasing trend, positive in real terms, and
competitive with foreign trends. The extemal sector, on the other hand, registered a noticeable recovery
with a surplus in the capital account of the balance of payments and which compensated the deficit of the
current account, in addition to generating an increase in intemational monetary reserves in the amount of
US$558.9 million: net intemational reserves went from a negative to a positive balance.
During 1992, the strategy consisted in adopting measures to consolidate the stabilization process
and stimulate economic growth. In this context, monetary policy included preventive measures in order to
avoid excess liquidity, and corrective measures to neutralize already existing excess liquidity. On the other
hand, fiscal policy included implementation of a Tax Modermization Program which became effective on
July 1, 1992, and administrative measures to control the fiscal deficit. In the structural area, fiscal policy
had as a priority basic public services such as education, health, infrastructure, and social security.
The application of the referred policy measures influenced the economy in a positive way. In
effect, real GDP grew by 4.8%, this being the most dynamic rate obtained in the last twelve years; inflation
remained at 13.7%, which was consistent with the stability objective and with the dynamism shown by
productive activity; the exchange rate was relatively stable, remaining within the fluctuation band
established by the monetary authorities; intemational monetary reserves continued to maintain acceptable
levels; the tax ratio increased by 1.0 percentage point going from 7.3% in 1991 to 8.3% in 1992, and the
budget deficit was 0.02% of GDP. As far as foreign obligations are concemed, foreign public debt was
reduced by US$55.8 million with respect to the preceding year.
It is noteworthy that the favorable evolution of the economy in these two years and the
regularization of arrears due to the IDB in 1991 and to the World Bank (IBRD) in November 1992,
contributed to the subscription of a Stand-by Agreement for balance of payments support with the
Intemational Monetary Fund, and of a loan to support the Economic Modemization Program with IBRD.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
The stabilization and adjustment efforts initiated at the end of 1991 were interrupted at the end of
May and beginning of June 1993 due to intemal political events that resulted in the election of a new
govemment by Congress. As a result of said instability, a fiscal imbalance was generated which translated
into monetary pressure. Therefore, the decrease in income together with the balance of payments pressure
had a repercussion in the deposit withdrawals that the Central Government kept at the Banco de Guatemala
(Central Bank), generating excess liquidity that together with economic and political uncertainty, were
reflected in a reduction of intemational reserves, and an acceleration of inflationary trends.
In order to correct said imbalances and to avoid compromising the economic growth objectives by
maintaining stability over the medium and long-term, the Central Bank intensively used open market
operations, in this way effectively reducing excess liquidity, although this gave way to an increase in
interest rates. By the end of 1993, favorable results were obtained in the main macroeconomic variables.
In effect, productive activity measured by real GDP increased by 3.9%; inflation was within the established
goal when it reached 11.6%, below that of 1992 which was at 13.7%; net intemational reserves increased
by US$205.6 million, exceeding the goal established at the beginning of the year (US$162.0 million).
The favorable behavior of the extemal sector also became evident in the external position which,
by the end of 1993, registered a positive balance of US$127.8 million, contrasting with the US$74.2
million deficit observed in 1992. Also, the extemal sector developed within a framework of exchange rate
stability which generated expectations of certainty in the evolution of the exchange rate, due to the fact that
the public sale of foreign currency aimed to prevent erratic nominal exchange rate fluctuations.
Furthermore, it is important to state that due to the moderate increase in exports, to the deceleration of
imports, and the greater surpluses registered in the service and transfer accounts, the deficit in the current
account was reduced in comparison to that observed during the previous year, and as a share of GDP
decreased to 5.9% in 1993, compared to 7.0% in 1992.
Within the context of 1993 fiscal policy, the execution of the income and expenditure budget led to
a deficit in the amount of Q944.5 million, equivalent to 1.5% of GDP, substantially greater than that
observed the year before which was Q10.8 million (0.02% of GDP). This was partly due to the fact that
the foreseen collection level was not reached with the application of the 1992 tax reform.
Regarding foreign public debt, the negotiation of a Basic Agreement with the participating Paris
Club creditors, was a relevant aspect for negotiating the bilateral debt delinquent until March 1993.
On the other hand, it is important to mention that in September of the same year, the monetary
authorities approved the National Financial System Modemization Program to ensure that financial policy
would support economic growth and development in an environment of monetary and price stability.
For the 1994-1995 period, the new Government's agenda supported the medium and long-term
strategies for the modemization of the economy, and this contributed to the fact that the country's economic
activity, measured by real GDP, showed a sustained increase of 4.0% and 4.9%, respectively. Within this
context, the strategy maintained price stability in order to promote stable economic growth.
In effect, with reform of the Political Constitution of the Republic, effective as of April 1994, the
orientation of the credit policy of the Banco de Guatemala to the public sector became permanent, which
since 1991 had been contractive. Therefore, 1994 net credit to the public sector was negative, by Q 1,007.1
million, and in 1995, it was reduced to Q25.2 million. In this sense, evolution of net credit to the
government provided an important support to monetary policy, helping with the reduction of the bank
reserve requirement rate and of the open market operations level, which contributed to moderate interest



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
rates without compromising price stability. Also, credit reduction of the Banco de Guatemala to the Public
Sector allowed the monetary authority to lower bank reserve requirements and obligatory investment rates,
to 14% and 19.5% respectively, compared to 21.5% and 15% at the end of 1993.
Interest rates, on average registered a low trend in 1994 and became stable the next year. This was
a result of the reduction in the bank reserve requirement and open market operations by the Banco de
Guatemala, due to the lack of fiscal effort in support of the monetary policy.
According to the budgetary execution results, the 1994 fiscal deficit was 1.6% of GDP, slightly
above that during the preceding year, and which was the result of a decrease in income and of an increase
in expenditures (0.2% and 1.5%, respectively).
In 1995, the fiscal situation showed more favorable results due to the fact that the increase in total
income was almost twice as much as expenditures, therefore creating a fiscal deficit lower by 0.6
percentage points than in 1994. In this respect, it is important to mention that the favorable evolution of
the income tax can be explained, in part, by the effect of the modifications of the income tax and value
added tax (VAT) laws, as well as by improved tax administration, supported by the modifications of the
Criminal Code, in order to include fiscal fraud as a crime.
As far as the external sector is concerned, the balance of payments registered a favorable balance
during 1994, which was characterized by an increase of US$59.8 million in the net reserves, while in 1995,
the external sector showed a less favorable behavior, registering a loss of net reserves of US$157.3 million,
placing its level at US$639.1 million, equivalent to 2.4 months of imports. The negative balance of the
capital account derived from the payment of short-term foreign commitments of US$118.9 million by the
Central Government, as well as lower foreign loan disbursements.
Regarding exchange policy, as of March 17, 1994, and in order to improve the control of money
supply, as well as to rely on a more competitive exchange market, the monetary authorities were in favor of
making the exchange system more flexible by establishing the foreign currency market (which includes the
Banco de Guatemala and the institutions contracted and authorized by the Monetary Board to operate in
exchanges) and by eliminating the Public Sale of Foreign Currency system established in June 1990. The
flexibilization of the exchange system allowed the market to be more competitive, transparent, efficient, and
neutral, a fact that has been reflected during the last two years, in relative exchange stability, low exchange
intermediate margins, as well as a not very significant exchange gap.
Within the framework of the National Financial Modernization Program, in August 1995, the
monetary authorities approved the draft bill that introduced reforms to the exchange system in order to
eliminate the principle of currency concentration and to make other foreign currency operations feasible.
The project is pending approval by Congress.
As far as the foreign debt is concerned, it is important to mention that, compared to the values
observed in 1986, the balance of said debt in relation to GDP by December 31, 1995 has been reduced
significantly from 44% to 14.7%, respectively. Service as a share of exports of goods and services has
decreased from 42.1 % to 11.7%, respectively.
II.  THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ECONOMIC MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
The principles of management of the PME were based on a group of actions, objectives, and
policies that were framed within what is known as the stabilization and structural adjustment processes,



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
and that allow for consistency in the design of short and long-term economic policies. Based on this, three
areas are defined in the PME: (i) reform of the public sector by tax modernization programs and
rationalization of public expenditures, in order to increase public savings, investment, and social sector
infrastructure, and the efficiency in public investment through better planning and execution; (ii) trade
reform through tariff rationalization programs, the elimination of non tariff barriers, and the strengthening
of market competitiveness and transparency. All of the above is necessary in order to strengthen the
productive structure, to increase investment opportunities, and to activate the integration of the national
economy in the globalization process; and (iii) carry out the modernization of the financial sector to resolve
the problems that faced the sector, such as subsidized interest rates, inadequate prudential and supervision
norms, and the institutional weakness of some state banks. In this context, the execution of the PME was
accompanied by policy measures that strengthened the stabilization process that begun in 1986, and
macroeconomic and institutional reforms that contributed to the process of economic modernization.
It is important to mention that, although the measures established in the Economic Modernization
Program's action plans were adopted, for unforeseen reasons, in some cases the goals were not reached.
Nevertheless, the objectives were met and the World Bank therefore waived some of the conditions.
Within the stabilization process, measures were included that resulted in the decrease of inflation,
exchange stabilization, moderation of interest rates, reduction of the fiscal deficit as a share of GDP, the
sustained increase of the national productive activity, and the significant improvement of the country's
position abroad, as well as its foreign debt situation. As far as the structural reforms arc concerned, they
were carried out with the direct participation of the different agencies and institutions responsible for their
corresponding political and technical execution. The following are the results of the adopted measures:
1.     Reform of the Public Sector
a.     Fiscal and Customs Administration
In general, the objectives of the fiscal and customs administration agreed upon were satisfactorily
fulfilled. Among the most important fiscal reforms, the following stand out: modification of the VAT from
7% to 10% (Decree 60-94) and the reforms to Articles 7, 9, and 10, to improve tax controls, making the
exemptions and the tax values on the corresponding invoices clear (Decree 29-94); reforms of the taxable
bases and of the Income Tax (ISR) (Decree 61-94); adjustment of the tax base for the Consumption of
Alcoholic and Distilled Beverages, Beer, and Other Beverages, to the sale prices of the merchandise
(Decree 56-94); approval and reforms of the Fiscal Code which contains norms that govem the juridical
relations originated by the tax obligations to the State (Decree 6-91), and reforms of the Criminal Code
establishing the crime of fiscal fraud (Decree 67-94). The following are among the main administrative
measures: implementation of annual fiscal and collection programs to ensure the inclusion of non-
registered taxpayers in the Unified Tax Registry, and to verify compliance with the legal terms of the
normal and economic-coercive collections; intensification of training for the fiscal admninistration personnel;
design of a system to spread information conceming the legal provisions, and the organization of a
computer department in each of the fiscal administration's agencies; creation of the Fiscal Analysis Unit as
part of the fiscal administration project; creation of an operational data base to expedite collections, and the
establishment of a one-step office for motor vehicles. Furthermore, bidding processes were carried out in
order to give the services of the container terminal as a concession, the services of the chemical laboratory,
and merchandise verification at the General Directorate of Customs. In the first case, an offer was received
which did not comply with all the legal requirements of the State Contracting Law; in the second case, no
offers were submitted, and in the last case, the bidding was awarded to a private company.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
b.    Reform of State Entities
As far as the National Institute for Agricultural Commercialization (INDECA) is concerned,
actions where oriented towards guaranteeing a non-intervention policy by the State in the basic grains
market. Among the adopted measures, the following are noteworthy: renting over 30% of silo capacity,
and the reduction of personnel to 145 employees through a voluntary retirement program.
With respect to the power sector, the Government fulfilled the conditions of not carrying out non-
reimbursable transfers to INDE, and of demonopolizing its activities by the approval of the Organic Law
(Congress Decree 64-94). On the other hand, the Government agreed with the World Bank on a
methodology to calculate the marginal cost of the electricity tariff, as well as an automatic tariff adjustment
to prevent inflationary erosion in the tariffs applied by INDE. Furthermore, according to the agreed action
plan, efforts were made to increase the electricity tariff, and to eliminate the tariff subsidy of bulk
acquisitions and residential consumers. Nevertheless, all the measures adopted to adjust the tariffs and to
gradually reduce subsidies were subject to appeals before the Court of Constitutionality. In effect, in
March 1993, INDE and EEGSA made new tariff regulations effective based on the marginal costs;
nevertheless, due to the fact that EEGSA adjusted its tariffs in a direct manner and not by means of a
governmental agreement as provided in Article 1520 of the Public Sector Law, they were left without effect
due to the mentioned constitutional appeals which, in turn, was the reason INDE was not able to apply the
marginal cost tariffs to its sales to EEGSA. On September 5, 1994, new tariff regulations were approved
for INDE as well as for EEGSA (Governmental Agreements 54-94 and 545-94, respectively), although
they were left without effect in view of the constitutional appeals filed in the Court of Constitutionality. On
February 1995, EEGSA adjusted its electricity tariffs for purchased fuel and power, which is permissible
within the 1991 regulations in effect; nevertheless, said adjustment could not be applied due to a declared
sentence which was definitive on July 28, 1995. In this opportunity, it was argued that the 1991 tariff
regulations were derogated by Article 8 of the Judicial Branch Law, and that its new application by
Governmental Agreement 545-94 had not yet been definitely resolved by the Court of Constitutionality.
Finally, on August 24, 1995, INDE approved new tariff regulations effective as of September 27, 1995,
which were also subject to appeals before the Court of Constitutionality.
As far as the debt EEGSA has with INDE, it has been considered that the obligation be canceled
with EEGSA shares, which, in turn, would be delivered to the Ministry of Finance as payment of the debt
that INDE has with said Ministry. Notwithstanding, the legal situation of the purchase of a turbine that
EEGSA assigned to INDE as payment of said debt, must be previously resolved. Finally, the draft General
Law of Electricity was submitted to Congress by which the deregulation and the promotion of competition
were presented, as well as the bases for the restructuring of the electricity sub-sector.
2.     Trade Reform
The tariff rationalization and non-tariff barrier elimination programs have been satisfactorily
fulfilled. In effect, the tariff reduction on imports to a maximum of 20% and a minimum of 5% was
complied with the modification of the Central American Tariff on Imports through Governmental
Agreement No.70-92 published on February 24, 1992. Furthermore, based on Resolution No.13-95 of the
Council of Ministers Responsible for the Economic Integration, Guatemala decided to reduce the tariffs on
capital goods, from 5% to 1%, and is committed to continue the process to lower taxes. As far as the non-
tariff barriers are concerned, all of those committed in the Economic Modernization Loan have been
eliminated. Furthermore, it is noteworthy that currently Guatemala applies no restrictions to exports and
imports, due to its adherence to the World Trade Organization (WTO).



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
As far as the action plan to strengthen competitiveness and transparency in the domestic market of
petroleum derivatives and liquefied petroleum gas, the measures agreed for the liberalization of retail prices
of said products were adopted, and only the liberalization of liquefied petroleum gas prices in containers of
less than 40lbs. in the Capital City is pending. Furthernore, a Draft Law for-the-Commercialization of
Hydrocarbons was submitted to Congress, which will regulate all the participating sectors.
3.     Financial Sector Reform
a.     Prudential Norms and Bank Supervision
The action plan for the strengthening of prudential norms and bank supervision was satisfactorily
executed. The totality of measures agreed upon for the prudent strengthening of the financial system were
adopted, and therefore the objectives to increase the efficiency of the allocation of the financial resources,
to increase the capacity for financial intermediation, and to minimize the risks of the system's insolvency,
were reached. The following are some of the issued provisions that are noteworthy: the reform of Articles
7, 9, and 10 of the Banking Law with the purpose of simplifying the procedure for the approval of statutes
and the recognition of the juridical personality of foreign banks, to simplify the establishment and closure
of local banks, and to simplify the procedure for the merger of banking institutions; legislative reforms
related to the requirements in order to adapt capital and capital reserves to the international criteria
recommended by the Basle Committee, which includes the elimination of all the exceptions of the
requirements of capitals, the approval of the new Regulation for the Appraisal of Credit Assets and Norms
To Determine and Classify Those of Questionable Recovery, which came into effect on July 22, 1994 in
substitution of Agreement No.20-92 which was suspended by order of the Court of Constitutionality;
issuance of a regulation that prohibits, limits, and regulates the operations that banks may make with
directors, officials, and employees of said institutions and of the Superintendency of Banks with persons
involved with said personnel; adoption of measures to prevent, together with the periodic obligatory
appraisal of the credit assets, the rollover practices by extensions and renewals that might cover
deteriorated loans; recognition, on the part of the monetary authorities, of an accounting system that is in
accord with modern accounting practices, and elaboration of financial bank statements, as well as generally
accepted accounting standards and external audits, by which the country's financial institutions and
external auditors, respectively, must abide by; approval of the Regulation for the Establishment of Banks
Mergers and the Authorization of Branches and Agencies; approval of a regulation for the setting of
peremptory terms for the rehabilitation of insolvent banks, supported by the Banking Law which, in tum,
foresees corrective sanctions, including liquidation of banks that show persistent or serious deficiencies in
their minimum capital requirements. In the same manner, the redefinition and improvement objectives of
financial supervision, were fulfilled, adapting the functions and authority of the Superintendency of Banks
to the new economic and financial principles, in order to promote a secure, stable, and efficient financial
system. Of measures adopted for this effect, the following are noteworthy: organizational restructuring of
the Superintendency of Banks to better fulfill its functions under the criteria of preventive supervision;
juridical and institutional strengthening of the Superintendency to define its mission and supervision scope,
to strengthen its legal authority and attributes as a fiscal body and, in general, to optimize financial
surveillance by strengthening the functional independence and the definition of a juridical framework
adapted to the preventive supervision functions of the financial sector.
b.     State Financial Institutions
Regarding the state financial institutions that have not fulfilled the original mandate and that have
not operated efficiently (Banco Nacional de la Vivienda--BANVI; and Corporaci6n Financiera Nacional--
CORFINA), action plans for their liquidation have been implemented. h. BANVI, the action plan



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
considered personnel reduction programs, the sale of assets, and contracting private banking services to
handle the portfolio. The CORFINA action plan included measures to progressively reduce its operations,
as well as personnel at the plant, and the sale of assets. In this way, the personnel reduction goals and the
preparation of reports of the sale of assets were fulfilled in both cases. Furthermore, the proposed law for
the definite liquidation of BANVI was submitted to Congress. Since a final agreement has not yet been
reached in the case of the debt CORFINA has with the Banco Exterior de Espania, the bill for its definite
liquidation has not yet been submitted to Congress.
The restructuring process for BANDESA was started in November 1992, when its Board of
Directors, by Resolution JD078-92, approved the Strategic Plan which was ratified on March 17, 1994 by
Resolution JD009-94, approving the supervision goals that were accepted by the World Bank and which
correspond to the following areas: (i) human resources; (ii) accounting systems, (iii) electronic data
processing; (iv) new organic law; (v) evaluation of the portfolio; (vi) financial modernization; (vii)
evaluation of the agencies; and (viii) external audit.
Taking into consideration that, in general, the development banks currently face the challenge of
adapting themselves to the new orientation of policies that emphasize the market and competitiveness, the
adopted measures within the referred Strategic Plan have been oriented towards promoting the liquidation
of BANDESA and promoting the creation of a new bank called BANCO DE DESARROLLO RURAL,
S.A., with a multisectoral focus, and predominantly oriented towards micro, small, and medium enterprises,
to which it would grant credit directly as a regular bank, and indirectly as a second tier bank. In this sense,
the new bank would function as a rural development bank, established as a stock company with mixed
capital that will gradually absorb BANDESA's risk-free assets and liabilities. The submission to Congress
of the bill for the creation of the new bank in May 1995, for the elimination of vacant posts, and the
implementation of personnel reduction and training programs at BANDESA, and for the appointment of the
new management at BANDESA, has guaranteed the fulfillment of the agreed objectives.
4.     Development of the Social Sector
Within this sector, measures that are directed towards increasing the budget allocations and
executions for primary education and preventive health, were adopted. To this effect, an investment plan
was implemented, and managerial execution reports were elaborated which comply--with Governmental
Agreement No.196-93, which prevents the transfer of budgeted resources for primary and preventive health
to any other area. On the other hand, it is foreseen that with the signing of the Peace Accords, the
investment and attention programs in said sectors will be supported.
III.   SUSTAINABILITY OF THE PROGRAM
The success of the policy measures for the country's economic modernization require the
maintenance of stable conditions because it generates the necessary macroeconomic environment in order
for economic agents to make decisions. Therefore, on the one hand, the sustainability of the PME rests on
the fiscal policy which is oriented towards correcting the structural imbalance of the public finances that is
characterized by secular fiscal deficits which have generated pressure on interest rates, and a low fiscal
burden that have not allowed for public savings during the last years, and have reduced the potential for
sustained economic growth. In this sense, it is imperative to expedite the state modemization in order that
the economic modemization may continue as a coherent and integral process to achieve planned goals.
On the other hand, it is important to take into consideration that the development strategy for the
1996-2000 period depends on short and medium-term policies which are oriented towards the in-depth



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
economic modemization of the country, in order to achieve greater efficiency and competitiveness, with
greater growth and increase of productivity, generation of jobs, and higher levels of social equity.
IV.   CONCLUSION
Within the framework of stabilization and structural adjustment programs, the policy measures
have been oriented towards the country's economic modemization, favoring the opening of the economy,
the allocation of productive resources, and the free determination of prices, in an environment of stability.
Furthermore, in order to not jeopardize the obtained achievements, the future strategy policy contemplates
the continuity of the stabilization program, together with a solution for the structural problem of the public
finances, and that the interest rate become an additional incentive to those derived from the structural
reforms, in order to propitiate a sustained economic growth.












s      Y4  1-   , >~  t
.-       'S -' W ,    ~ -       I'  1.-                                        1  i,      7
1    -.,,-                                   ,                          1-... 
,   i  ,       I   I   V



