Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3533 GU
                          Loan Agreement
                   (Economic Modernization Loan)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 8, 1992
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3533 GU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF
GUATEMALA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated October 16,
1992 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve modernization of the Borrower's
economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during such execution; and
      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided, in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in three tranches as hereinafter
provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
      as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
      program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan.";
      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (d)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Administration Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan
of actions, including targets and timetable therefor, if any, for
improving tax and customs administration, as such plan is set forth
in the attachment to the letter to the Bank dated October 12, 1992
from the Borrower's representative under Section 6.01 of this
Agreement and as it may be modified from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank;
      (b)   "All Taxes" means the aggregate of any direct or
indirect tax that may be levied by the Borrower's tax authorities
(other than municipal authorities) under the Borrower's relevant
laws and regulations, and the term includes custom duties, stamp
charges, surcharges and any other charge that may be levied on the
manufacturing, circulation, distribution or transference of imported
or domestic goods, and on the provision of services;
      (c)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, which
begins on January 1 and ends on December 31 of each year;
      (d)   "GDP" means the Borrower's gross domestic product of a
given year, actual or estimated, as the case may be, all calculated
in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank;
      (e)   "Programa de Modernizacion Economica" means the document
under that name submitted to the Bank by the Borrower's Minister of
Finance and dated October 15, 1992, as said document may be changed
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
      (f)   "Quetzal" and "Quetzales" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
      (g)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Page  3
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);
      (h)   "Social Sector Targets" means each of the increases of
15% in real terms that are expected to take place during Fiscal Year
1993 over and above the corresponding figures shown, in the Fiscal
Year 1992 budget approved by the Borrower's Congress by means of
Decreto #83-91, dated November 29, 1991, published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on December 19, 1991, in respect of public
expenditures for primary education, and for preventive and primary
health care, respectively;
      (i)   "Table" means the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (j)   "Tranche" means each of the respective amounts of Loan
proceeds allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2) and (3)
of the Table and the following terms have the following meanings:
"First Tranche" means a Tranche, as so defined, to be disbursed on
or after the Effective Date subject to the provisions of this
Agreement, particularly those under Section 12.01 of the General
Conditions; "Second Tranche" means a Tranche, as so defined, to be
disbursed, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, on or after
the date on which all conditions stipulated in paragraph 5 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been met; and "Third Tranche"
means a Tranche, as so defined, to be disbursed, subject to the
provisions of this Agreement, on or after the date on which all
conditions stipulated in paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
have been met.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred twenty million dollars ($120,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1994 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
Page  4
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. (a) The Director of the Department mentioned in
(b) below is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the External Finance Department of the
Borrower's Ministry of Public Finance with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and for the
collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to
the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than
$1,000,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedules 4 and 5 to this Agreement.
Page  5
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
      (c)   It is hereby understood that, when analyzing the
progress achieved in meeting the Social Sector Targets or the
measures, actions and results corresponding to each of the
paragraphs in Schedule 4 and 5 to this Agreement, the corresponding
Sections of the Programa de Modernizacion Economica and the
Administration Action Plan, the analysis shall, when so required by
the measure, action or result in question because of the timing of
the review and that of the measure, action or result in question,
focus not only on the past action taken, measures set forth or
results achieved at the time each of the aforesaid exchanges of
views takes place, but also on the likelihood of meeting the future
applicable Social Sector Targets, or achieving the future results
foreseen for such actions or measures, if any, all in respect of the
corresponding Sections of the Programa de Modernizacion Economica
and the Administration Action Plan.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for the applicable
                  period pursuant to (ii) below within each Fiscal
                  Year, audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than ninety days after the
                  date of which the amount allocated from time to
                  time under each category of the Table has been
                  fully withdrawn, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
Page  6
          (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the audits referred to in paragraph
                  (b) of this Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during the period
                  corresponding to the audit in question, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower
is consistent with the objectives of the Program;
      (b)   that new sets of norms satisfactory to the Bank on: (i)
loan classification and provisioning; and (ii) accounting standards,
both applicable to institutions under the jurisdiction of the
Borrower's Superintendency of Banks (SB), have been put into effect
by the Borrower's relevant authorities, including the Borrower's
Monetary Board, so as to be binding on said institutions as of
January 1, 1993 and thereafter;
      (c)   that SB has put into effect guidelines applicable to
itself and to the institutions subject to SB's control on disclosure
of information about said institutions; and
      (d)   that SB has adopted a reorganization plan approved by
the Borrower's relevant authorities, including the Borrower's
Monetary Board, and satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions to be included in the opinion or opinions furnished to
the Bank, namely, that all action to put into effect the sets of
norms and reorganization plan referred to in paragraphs (b) and (d)
respectively, of Section 5.01 of this Agreement, have been taken by
the relevant Borrower's authorities and that the said sets and plan
have been put into effect pursuant to the terms thereof.
      Section 5.03. The date of April 7, 1993 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
Page  7
            Ministry of Public Finance
            8a Avenida and 21a Calle
            Zona 1
            Guatemala, Guatemala
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIP                    9207 MINFIP GU
                  Guatemala, Guatemala
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the city of Guatemala, Republic
of Guatemala, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
                  By /s/ Richard Aitkenhead Castillo
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ s. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Imported goods to         48,000,000        100% of
    be financed under                           expenditures
    the First Tranche
Page  8
(2) Imported goods to         36,000,000        100% of
    be financed under                           expenditures
    the Second Tranche
(3) Imported goods to         36,000,000        100% of
    be financed under                           expenditures
    the Third Tranche
                             ___________
         TOTAL               120,000,000
                             ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "expenditures"
means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of
the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:
      Group       Sub-group         Description of Items
      112            --             Alcoholic beverages
      121            --             Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse
      122            --             Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco sub-
                                    stitutes)
      525            --             Radioactive and associated
                                    materials
      667            --             Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked
      718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated
                                    for nuclear reactors
      728.43         --             Tobacco processing machinery
      897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                    wares (including set gems)
      971            --             Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)
      (b)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $48,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after a
date eight months earlier than the date of this Agreement;
      (c)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
      (d)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
Page  9
      (e)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
4.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be
permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.
5.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Category (2) of the Table unless the proceeds of the Loan allocated
under Category (1) have been fully disbursed for more than one
hundred and twenty days, and the Bank shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b)
that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been
taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) that
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent
with the objectives of the Program.
6.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under
Category (3) of the Table unless the proceeds of the Loan allocated
under Category (2) have been fully disbursed for more than one
hundred and twenty days, and the Bank shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b)
that the actions described in Schedules 4 and 5 to this Agreement
have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is
consistent with the objectives of the Program.
7.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 5 or 6
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program or the actions
described in Schedules 4 or 5 to this Agreement, as the case may be,
are not satisfactory, or that the macroeconomic policy framework of
the Borrower is not consistent with the objectives of the Program,
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, or the
Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework remains inconsistent with
the objectives of the Program, then the Bank may, by notice of the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part
thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
May 1, 1998                                     2,210,000
November 1, 1998                                2,295,000
May 1, 1999                                     2,385,000
November 1, 1999                                2,475,000
May 1, 2000                                     2,570,000
November 1, 2000                                2,665,000
May 1, 2001                                     2,765,000
November 1, 2001                                2,870,000
May 1, 2002                                     2,980,000
November 1, 2002                                3,095,000
May 1, 2003                                     3,210,000
November 1, 2003                                3,335,000
May 1, 2004                                     3,460,000
November 1, 2004                                3,590,000
May 1, 2005                                     3,730,000
Page  10
November 1, 2005                                3,870,000
May 1, 2006                                     4,020,000
November 1, 2006                                4,170,000
May 1, 2007                                     4,330,000
November 1, 2007                                4,495,000
May 1, 2008                                     4,665,000
November 1, 2008                                4,840,000
May 1, 2009                                     5,025,000
November 1, 2009                                5,215,000
May 1, 2010                                     5,415,000
November 1, 2010                                5,620,000
May 1, 2011                                     5,835,000
November 1, 2011                                6,055,000
May 1, 2012                                     6,285,000
November 1, 2012                                6,525,000
________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                 0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity
More than eighteen years before                 1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
Page  11
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:
            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or
           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international
                  circulation; or
          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Subject to paragraph 3 below, contracts for the procurement of
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $3,000,000 shall
be awarded:
      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and
      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers, except that direct contracting procedures acceptable
to the Bank may be used where considered appropriate under paragraph
3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank; provided, however, that: (a) in respect of petroleum
imports under existing contracts entered into with oil suppliers,
the Bank shall finance out of the Loan an amount not to exceed, per
unit, the average between lower and higher FOB (free on board)
prices as reflected in the Platt's Oilgram for the US Gulf Coast or
the Caribbean, as applicable, for the relevant date of loading (with
due adjustment for type and quality of crude or petroleum product)
plus the ocean freight rates that would apply to the largest tankers
that can be handled at the receiving terminal, insurance and
inspection costs, and ocean losses allowances; or (b) in respect of
other commodity imports under existing contracts entered into with
the corresponding suppliers, the Bank shall finance out of the Loan
an amount not to exceed the average FOB (free on board) price posted
(for the commodity in question and for the relevant date of
shipment) by a commodity exchange acceptable to the Borrower and the
Bank, plus the additional costs referred to above, if applicable.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
Page  12
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Public Finances
1.    The aggregate amount of revenues collected in respect of All
Taxes applicable during Fiscal Year 1992 is not less than 7.7
percent of GDP for such year.
2.    The Borrower and the Bank have agreed on an estimated amount
of revenues to be collected in respect of All Taxes during Fiscal
Year 1993 which shall be equivalent to, at least, 9% of GDP for such
year, and the Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence that the
amount so agreed is reflected in the Borrower's budget for Fiscal
Year 1993.
3.    The Administration Action Plan is being implemented and  the
Borrower is likely to fully implement such Plan, all in accordance
with the objectives, actions, targets and timetable of such plan.
4.    (a)   The applicable Social Sector Targets have been or are
likely to be met; and (b) the Borrower, and the Bank have agreed on
an investment plan for the Borrower's social sectors for Fiscal
Years 1994 and 1995, such plan to focus on expansion of: (i) primary
education in rural areas; (ii) preventive and primary health care;
(iii) nutrition programs; and (iv) health and primary education
service coverage in rural areas.
Public Sector Reform
5.    The actions and results, described in Section: Public Sector
Reform of Programa de Modernizacion Economica, will have been taken
and achieved, respectively, in accordance with said Section.
Trade Reform
6.    The import tariff positions have been reduced to not more than
5 within a range of 5% and 20%, both of the C.I.F. (cost, insurance
and freight) value of the goods in question, in respect of all goods
imported to Guatemala; provided, however, that in respect of
textiles, clothing and shoes, the aforesaid range will only apply as
of January 1, 1994.
7.    The actions, measures and results described in Section: Trade
Reform of Programa de Modernizacion Economica, will have been taken
or achieved, as the case may be, in accordance with said Section.
Reform of State Financial Institutions
8.    The Borrower and/or, at the Bank's request, the Borrower's
Page  13
Central Bank, have furnished to the Bank evidence that any
instrument of indebtedness issued by the Borrower, its Central Bank,
any financial institution directly or indirectly owned or controlled
by the Borrower, or any agency of any of the aforesaid, has been or
will be issued at interest rates not lower than the weighted average
deposit rate of the banking system as calculated by the
Superintendency of Banks.
9.    The actions, measures and results described in Section: State
Financial Institutions of Programa de Modernizacion Economica, will
have been taken or achieved, respectively, in accordance with said
Section.
Financial Sector Modernization
10.   The actions and results, described in Section: Financial
Sector Modernization of Programa de Modernizacion Economica, will
have been taken or achieved, as the case may be, in accordance with
said Section.
                            SCHEDULE 5
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 6 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Public Finances
1.    The amount of revenues collected, or likely to be collected,
in respect of All Taxes applicable during Fiscal Year 1993 is not
lower than the estimated amount agreed pursuant to paragraph 2 of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
2.    The Administration Action Plan has been implemented all in
accordance with its objectives, actions, targets and timetable.
3.    (a)   The applicable Social Sector Targets have been met or
are likely to be met; (b) the investment plan agreed pursuant to
paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement is being
implemented; and (c) the Borrower is likely to fully implement such
plan, all in accordance with the objectives, actions and targets of
such plan.
Public Sector Reform
4.    The actions and results, described in Section: Public Sector
Reform of the Programa de Modernizacion Economica, will have been
taken or achieved, respectively, in accordance with said Section.
Trade Reform
5.    The tariff positions in respect of all goods imported into
Guatemala are within the range stipulated in paragraph 6 of Schedule
4 to this Agreement; provided, however, that only with respect to
textiles, clothing and shoes, the application of the provisions of
this paragraph 5 shall be further subject to the proviso to the
aforementioned paragraph 6.
Reform of State Financial Institutions
6.    The actions and results, described in Section: State Financial
Institutions of the Programa de Modernizacion Economica, will have
been taken or achieved, respectively, in accordance with said
Section.
Financial Sector Modernization
7.    The actions, measures and results described in Section:
Financial Sector Modernization of the Programa de Modernizacion
Economica, will have been taken or achieved, as the case may be, in
accordance with said Section.
Page  14
