Report No. PID10232
Project Name                     Romania-Social Development Fund II    @
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Social Funds
Project ID                       ROPE68808
Borrower(s)                      ROMANIA
Implementing Agency
Address RSDF
RSDF
Address: Bd. Regina Elisabeta 3, Bucharest,
Romania
Contact Person: Liliana Vasilescu
Tel: 40 1 3153415
Fax: 40 1 3153440
Email: lvasilescu@frds.ro
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                October 15, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         September 25, 2001
Projected Board Date             December 13, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Issues. The main sector issues are: poverty, unaccountable institutions
and low levels of positive social capital. More than 44t of Romanians live
below the poverty line (Poverty and the Social Protection System, Tesliuc,
Pop, 2001). Levels of social capital in Romania are low (Government
Accountability in East Central Europe, Mungiu (coord.), 2000). Local
authorities lack capacity and incentives to work in partnership with local
communities (Rural Development Project preparatory study,
2000).Strategies. Poverty alleviation is included as a priority in the
Government Program. An Anti-Poverty and Social Inclusion Promotion
Commission under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister was established in
May 2001. The Romanian Parliament decided to use the principles and
mechanisms of a social fund for poverty alleviation and social capital
enhancement in 1998, when it passed Law 129, which established the RSDF.
After the joint review of the first phase of the RSDF (December 2000),
which documented the progress achieved under the first phase of the social
fund, the Government decided to continue using it in the framework of the
Social Development Fund (SDF) Program, as well as for the Rural
Development Fund (RDP) project.
2. Objectives
The development objectives of the second phase of the Program (hereafter
called the Project) are to further contribute to poverty alleviation and
community driven development through: (a) improving the livelihood of
poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups; and (b) promoting social
capital enhancement and civic engagement among project beneficiaries.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement



The Bank initiated the Program and agreed to its full implementation on
the condition that benchmarks for SDF I are satisfied. The first phase was
successful and the Bank decided to continue its involvement in order to
carry on the transfer of other funds' experience, and support the
mobilization of additional funds.
4. Description
The SDF II project, representing the second phase of the Program would
support the continuation and extension of activities supported under the
first phase. Two key project components of SDF I will be continued (RSDF
Sub-projects, and Institution Strengthening), though slightly amended to
reflect lessons learned. A new component will be added concentrating on
knowledge and partnership building among stakeholders, as well as a new
sub-component for project monitoring and evaluation.Project activities are
clustered in the following project components:Component A: RSDF
sub-projects A.1. RSDF Sub-Project Development. The project will finance
sub-projects prepared by recipients in poor rural communities and
disadvantaged groups, from the following categories:A.1.1. Small rural
infrastructure: rehabilitate, upgrade, build or equip rural roads, water
supply (small scale piped water system), small bridges, community centers,
small-scale flood defenses etc. within the ceiling of $75,000 per
sub-project. As it was the case with SDF I, SDF II will not finance the
rehabilitation of schools or health centers, since these needs are covered
by existing government investment plans and are (at least partially)
addressed by other Bank financed projects. A.1.2. Community-based social
services: social services for disadvantaged children (day care centers,
life skills development and post-institutionalization assistance for
orphans and abandoned teenagers, shelters for street children), shelters
for homeless, home care for disadvantaged elderly etc. within a ceiling of
$20,000 per sub-project. As compared to SDF I, SDF II will also offer
community-based social services to youth at risk, such as youth gangs and
Roma youth. A.1.3. Income generating activities: activities such as milk
processing, wood processing, wool processing, sun flower seeds processing,
honey and auxiliary products production, solar tents, greenhouses,
community bakeries, handicrafts, resin oil production, fish nursery, fish
packing and selling etc. within the ceiling of $20,000 per
sub-project.A.1.4. Follow-up activities: fixing small problems that may
appear in sub-projects already financed by RSDF, within the ceiling of
$10,000 per follow-up activity, as well as second sub-project for waste
collection and disposal activities in small rural communities, within the
ceiling of $45,000 per facility. This is a new category identified through
the regular monitoring and evaluation activities of RSDF during the SDF I
project.A.2. Building Community Capacity. The project will support
capacity building at community level through information, education and
communication (IEC) campaigns, facilitation, appraisal, supervision and
PMCs training. While SDF I focused on the promotion of the concept of the
Program, SDF II will focus more on a IEC campaigns to underscore the
principles of community-driven development and clarify in more detail the
RSDF procedures.
Component B: Knowledge Sharing and Partnership Building
The SDF II's new component will have two main sets of activities:
(i) building bridging social capital by creating networks of "graduating"
CBOs and facilitating continued partnership between local authorities and
CBOs, especially in the area of sustainability;
-2 -



(ii) building linkages with other national poverty reduction agencies and
with projects with similar set-up in the Region, including with the
network of social funds for Eastern Europe and Central Asia.
Component C: Institutional Strengthening
The project will finance activities under two sub-components:
C.1. RSDF institutional support, including establishment of 2-3
decentralized regional units and publishing of the RSDF Newsletter;
C.2. Monitoring and Evaluation: This new sub-component will consolidate
and build on the monitoring and evaluation activities already carried out
under SDF I. There are two main sets of activities:
C.2.1. Monitoring:
continued support for the MIS with a special emphasis on improving the
human aspects of the management of information and adding indicators
related to quality of works and services, sustainability and social
capital;
support for a small unit with RSDF that would analyze the internal
documents and commission studies for M&E; and
financial audits;
C.2.2. Evaluation: commissioning a series of impact evaluations with a
special emphasis on building linkages with other Romanian institutions
engaged in poverty reduction activities.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 28.66
6. Implementation
The estimated period of implementation of the project is four years and
four months. The same implementation arrangements as in SDF I will be
used. The project oversight and coordination will be done by RSDF,
established in 1998 by Law 129 as a public interest institution,
functioning under the authority of the Government of Romania. The RSDF
operates under exemption of civil service regulations and pay schedules
which permits it to pay competitive wages and attract competent employees.
The RSDF is subject to strict control procedures and auditing.The RSDF
governance is assured by a nine-member Steering Committee nominated by the
Prime Minister and the President of Romania, and headed by a president.
The Steering Committee of the RSDF approves the annual reports to be
submitted to the Prime Minister, which, thereafter, become public
documents. The Steering Committee approves the RSDF's internal
regulations, strategy and policy, and the grants to be awarded to
sub-projects upon recommendation of the sub-projects appraisal committee.
These regulations, strategy and sub-project procedures are described in an
Operational Manual prepared by the RSDF. Any amendments made to the
Operational Manual or other legal agreements governing the RSDF, including
the Law establishing the RSDF and the Subsidiary Agreement, must be agreed
with the Bank before they are adopted.The daily activities of the RSDF are
carried out by a small team of professionals reporting to an Executive
Director who manages the resources of the RSDF. The RSDF is staffed with a
professional financial manager and an accountant. Procurement and
Management Information Systems (MIS) specialists ensure efficient
- 3-



implementation and accountability. The Executive Director and key staff
have been appointed after their qualifications and terms of reference have
been accepted by the Bank. Any changes in the personnel appointed to
these positions or the terms of their employment would be subject to prior
Bank approval. The responsibilities of the RSDF include, but are not
limited to: (i) ensuring that the RSDF meets its objectives in an
efficient and effective way; (ii) maintaining the Operational Manual
procedures and policies; (iii) reviewing all applications and ensuring
that the RSDF criteria are consistently applied (including the use of the
checklist and environmental review of all projects); (iv) presenting
successful applications to the Steering Committee; (v) supervising the
progress of all proposed and approved projects; and (vi) building
partnerships with relevant institutions. Based upon the lessons learned
during the first phase, under the second phase RSDF will establish a small
unit dedicated to monitoring and evaluation activities as well as
development of poverty-related studies based upon the data collected by
RSDF staff and consultants.Sub-projects are implemented by a designated
Executing Agent (EA). In the case of rural communities, the EA is a
sub-PMC elected by the community (comprising a manager, secretary and
treasurer). The community fully participates in: (i) identification and
prioritization of needs; (ii) contribution (cash or in kind) to the
sub-project; (iii) assistance to the appraisers by providing the requested
information; (iv) sub-project implementation, for achieving the agreed
objectives; and (v) providing supervisors with the information needed for
the evaluation of the sub-project. The community is accountable and
responsible for the efficient implementation of the sub-project and
participates in the operation and maintenance of the sub-project. It is
also encouraged to share experience with other communities and to
disseminate good results, particularly on strengthening the organizational
capacity and building trust in order to achieve a multiplier effect. In
the case of sub-projects targeted at disadvantaged groups, the EA is an
NGO, in partnership with the Local Authorities LA.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of project benefits is likely to be high, based on the
experience of SDF I, with no significant risks. As regards technical
sustainability, the evidence from the first post-completion assessments is
positive in terms of the quality of construction and maintenance of the
infrastructure and services. To confirm this, a special quality assurance
review will be carried out by an independent audit (similar to a technical
and service audit). Social aspects are also scoring high given the
participation of communities in sub-project identification and
implementation in SDF I. The Beneficiary assessment found a great sense of
ownership and satisfaction with the results which also bodes well for
sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
(i) Lessons learned from SDF I and incorporated in the design of SDF
II.The self-organization process initiated by the project needs to be
reinforced. Communities that receive RSDF grants want to communicate,
share experience and eventually organize themselves in a network that will
promote CDD in Romania. Communities that completed sub-projects are the
best promoters of the RSDF. Consequently, SDF II will support such
activities under the new component B. The Beneficiary Assessment
recommended the diversification of the menu of eligible sub-projects.
- 4 -



Under SDF II, RSDF will establish an Innovation Section in the Operations
Department. The unit will undertake comparative studies and subsequently
promote alternative technical solutions for types of infrastructure such
as flood prevention through forestation, erosion control etc.Communities
lack a "maintenance culture". Under SDF II, Maintenance Handbooks will be
developed for each category of small infrastructure from the Fund's
menu.(ii) Lessons learned and international best practices incorporated in
the design of SDF II.Vulnerable groups are at the center of the newest
thinking about poverty. In this context, a group is vulnerable when there
is a high probability that it will experience poverty. SDF II will broaden
the targeted population of disadvantaged groups to vulnerable groups, for
which innovative community based social services will be financed. An
example of such a vulnerable group identified during project preparation
is represented by youth gangs from the periphery of big cities.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        At the time the SDF I project was negotiated the
environmental category F did not exist, and the project was rated as a
category B project. An environmental checklist has been developed in
accordance with Romanian standards that are included in the Operational
Manual. Sub-project applications included appropriate environmental checks
and clearances that were checked during the desk and field appraisal.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ana Maria Sandi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 40 1 210 1804
Fax: 40 1 210 2021
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October 19,2001.
- 5 -



