Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22876-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
N 'THE AMOUNT OF US$20.0 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR A
PROJECT IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE SOCIAL
DEVELOPMENT FUND PROGRAM
November 26, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 14, 2001)
Currency Unit = Romanian Lei
I Leu - US$0.0000319
US$1 = Lei 31,265
FISCAL YEAR
July I -- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBO           Community- Based Organization
CDD          Commnunity Driven Development
CEB           Council of Europe Development Bank
EU           European Union
EA           Executing Agent
FMI           Financial Management Initiative
GOR           Govemment of Romania
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IAS          International Accounting Standards
IEC          Information Education and Comnmunication
IGA          Income Generating Activity
L,A           Local Authority
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS           Management and Information System
MPF           Ministry of Public Finance
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
OECD          Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
PMC           Project Management Committee
PMR          Project Management Report
PMU           Project Management Unit
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
RDP           Rural Development Project
RSDF         Romanian Social Development Fund
SA            Special Account
SAPARD       Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural Development
SDF           Social Development Fund
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn                         1
Country Director:    Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:    Annette Dixon
Task Team Leader:   Ana Maria Sandi



ROMANIA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND II (PHASE II APL)
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                    Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                   3
2. Project development objective                                                         3
3. Key performance indicators                                                            3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the. projct and strategic choices                    5
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                     6
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        12
3. Benefits and target population                                                       12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                  16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             20
2. Financial                                                                            21
3. Technical                                                                            22
4. Institutional                                                                        22
5. Environmental                                                                        26
6. Social                                                                               27
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                   28
F. Sustainability and Risks



1. Sustainability                                                                    29
2. Critical risks                                                                     30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    31
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           31
2. OtherDisbursement, Dated Covenants, Ongoing                                        31
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        33
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         34
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   41
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        53
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Sumna-ary, or Cost-Eifectiveness Analysis Summary        54
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   56
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    76
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  77
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 78
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            80
Annex I 1: Summary of the Beneficiary Assessment                                         82
Annex 12: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators                                           83
Annex 13: Romania Social Development Fund Steering Committee                             84
MAP(S)



ROMANIA
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND II (PHASE II APL)
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: November 26, 2001                            Team Leader: Ana Maria Sandi
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink                Sector Director: Annette Dixon
Project ID: P068808                                Sector(s): SF - Social Funds
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Programn Loan (APL)  Theme(s): Social Development; Social Protection; Poverty
Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
g~~~~~~~                          4
IBRD            Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m         Date        Date
APL I        10.00    37.0    17.00       27.00    01l19/1999   i2/31/2001 Romania
APL 2       20.00    69.8      8.66       28.66     12/20/2001   08/31/2006 Romania
Total        30.00            25.66       55.66
[X] Loan     l ] Credit    [ Grant        ] Guarantee        O Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $20
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 4                           Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75% undisbursed loan balance, less   Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
any waiver
BORROWER                                                         6.17           0.00           6.17
IBRD                                                            16.71           3.29          20.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                2.24           0.00           2.24
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                         0.16           0.09           0.25
DEVELOPMENT (DFID)
Total:                                                          25.28           3.38          28.66
Borrower: ROMANIA
Responsible agency: RSDF
RSDF
Address: Bd. Regina Elisabeta 3, Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Liliana Vasilescu
Tel: 40 1 3153415            Fax: 40 1 3153440            Email: lvasilescu@frds.ro



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
Annual | 0.25  1      2.50 1     4.75      5.00 1     7.50 I
Cumulative | 0.25  1     2.75 1     7.50 1_12.50 1 20.00 
Project implementation period: 4 years and a half
Expected effectiveness date: 02/28/2002  Expected closing date:  08/31/2006
XS APL PAD Fam R.  2
- 2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The Social Development Fund (SDF) Program, of which this project is the second phase, seeks to
contribute to poverty alleviation through community driven development (CDD) and enhancing social
capital. Social capital is defined here as relationships, networks and norms facilitating cooperation either
within or between groups. Social capital is particularly important for countries like Romania, since its
transition success depends to a large extent upon the capacity of communities and individuals to get out of
passivity, engage collectively and individually in action, quickly anticipate changes and adapt to them, learn
and share knowledge, reduce negative social capital (related to corruption, clientele interests etc.). The
Program offers to poor communities the opportunity to be empowered through a "learning by doing"
process, by articulating priorities for assistance and participating in the design and implementation of
demand-driven sub-projects.
The program aims at implementing the social fund approach in two phases, over a period of about 7 years.
The first phase (SDF I) was approved by the Board on January 19, 1999, and is under implementation. As
described in the World Bank Project Appraisal Document 17379-RO, this phase initiated implementation
by: (i) training facilitators in community development, developing and implementing a promotion strategy,
establishing the administrative ;nfr-aFItn-wte of the Romanian Social Development Fund (RSDF), trainirng
appraisers and supervisors, cleating a monitoring and evaluation mechanism to analyze the outcomes cf t1e
Program; (ii) initiating capacity building activities in poor rural communities; and (iii) selecting and
financing sub-projects during the first six rounds of competition. Clear eligibility criteria derived from
poverty assessment studies were used for targeting purposes. The first phase is scheduled to be closed on
December 31, 2001.
The second phase (SDF II), to be implemented during 2002-2006 will consolidate and build on the
positive experiences gained during the implementation of the first phase. It will also refine and modify
implementation arrangements based on lessons learned during the first phase. More specifically the
Program will: (i) continue building up the capacity of the poor rural communities, adding networking and
experience sharing activities across communities; (ii) refine eligibility criteria; (iii) increase the scope and
number of community sub-projects; and (iv) develop poverty-related studies connected with participatory
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities that will be disseminated to governmental institutions and the
public.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives of the second phase of the Program, (SDF II, hereafter called the Project) are
similar to the objectives of the first phase: to contribute to poverty alleviation and community driven
development through: (a) improving the livelihood of Beneficiaries from poor rural communities and
disadvantaged groups; and (b) promoting social capital enhancement and civic engagement among project
Beneficiaries. The two objectives are closely inter-linked, since networks and shared values that encourage
social cooperation are important for well-being, while greater prosperity is accompanied, at least in OECD
countries, by increased social and civic involvement (The Well- Being of Nations. The Role of Human and
Social Capital, OECD, 2001).
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Based on the lessons learned under SDF I and putting greater emphasis on output and impact indicators,
under SDF II, progress is measured against: (a) input indicators, such as number of Project Management
- 3 -



Committees trained, number of promoters trained and disbursement to sub-projects;
(b) process indicators, such as number of sub-project applications registered, number of sub-projects
appraised in the field, number of sub-projects approved and various lapsed time indicators for measuring
responsiveness (e.g. elapsed time between application and appraisal and between request for payment and
payment); (c) output indicators, such as number of Community Based Organizations (CBOs) established,
number of infrastructure works completed, number of new income generating activities developed, number
of community-based social services provided, number of beneficiaries served and cost per beneficiary; cd)
impact and sustainability indicators, such as improved access to infrastructure and services (number cf
beneficiaries served), quality of works and services provided, post-implementation operation and
maintenance of sub-projects, changes in the attitudes of beneficiaries as well as local authorities (with a
special emphasis on trust as a leading indicator for social capital), capacity of local authorities to address
community problems, change in level of satisfaction with services and infrastructure to approximate
benefits.
Trigger indicators have been established from moving from one phase to the next one, so as to assess
intermediary results and implementation performance. As described in B.4., the triggers for moving to
phase 2 have already been met.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Anic-x !
Document number: 22180-RO Date of latest CAS discussion: June 19, 2001
The SDF Program and the first phase (SDF I) were included in the CAS approved on May 9, 1997. The
new CAS, discussed by the Board on June 19, 2001, sets out five Bank assistance priorities for Romania,
two of which are addressed by the project: greater access to opportunity (through, inter alia, rural
development, outreach to ethnic groups and promotion of social capital through community development),
and institution building to strengthen the rule of law (through, inter alia, effective policy implementation).
SDF II is identified as an instrument for these development objectives both in the low case and in the high
case scenarios.
As Romania is one of the four CDD focus countries in ECA, the Project is also in line with the regional and
Bank's CDD principles.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Issues. The main sector issues are: poverty, unaccountable institutions and low levels of social capital.
More than 44% of Romanians live below the poverty line (Poverty and the Social Protection System,
Tesliuc, Pop, 2001). Local authorities lack capacity and incentives to work in partnership with local
communities (Rural Development Project preparatory study, 2000). Levels of social capital in Romania are
low (Government Accountability in East Central Europe, Mungiu coord., 2000).
Strategies. Poverty alleviation is included as a priority in the Government's Program. An Anti-Poverty and
Social Inclusion Promotion Commission under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister was established in
May 2001. The Romanian Parliament decided to use the principles and mechanisms of a social fund for
poverty alleviation and social capital enhancement in 1998, when it passed Law 129, which established the
RSDF. After the joint review of the first phase of the RSDF (December 2000), which documented the
progress achieved under the first phase of the Program, the Government decided to continue the SDF
Program. Current discussions may lead to RSDF being used for implementing part of the Rural
Development Project (RDP) and possibly EU PHARE social assistance programs.
-4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Poverty Reduction. The program addresses three key areas of poverty reduction (defined in the World
Development Report 2000/2001) by: i) generating opportunities through improving basic infrastructure
needs and possibilities for income generation in poor rural communities; ii) empowernent of communities
by creating capable CBOs; poor rural villages have shown the capacity to organize and implement
community-driven sub-projects during phase I of the program according to an independent evaluation; the
participating communities had higher levels of trust in organizations and outside actors, a greater sense that
community-action works, and that community-driven priority setting can influence public action (see
Annex 11 for a summary of the Beneficiary Assessment); and iii) increasing security by providing
disadvantaged groups with better community-based services and by building on the poor people's own risk
management strategies through its community-driven nature. The Program complements other Bank
support for social protection, which follow other modes of support. This ensures that a variety of tools are
available to the Govemment to reduce poverty.
Decentralization. Local Authorities (LAs) are still weak, and lack both financial and human resources to
address poverty reduction in an effective manner. Although the Government is committed to
decentralization, local decision-makers lack the necessary knowledge, skills and experience to address
poverty issues at the community level and to involve communities in local government decisions. Despite
their great porential, there are few examples of partnerships between CBOs, NIGOs and LAs. The first
phase of the Program demonstrated the value of involving local residents in prioritizing, planning and
implementing sub-projects that address community needs. CBOs have demonstrated their ability to
implement demand driven infrastructure and income generation sub-projects. NGOs have demonstrated
their ability to implement successful community-based social projects. LAs have gained experience through
direct involvement in projects aimed at poverty alleviation, in partnerships with CBOs and NGOs. In the
second phase, the Program will further support linkages between CBOs, NGOs and LAs.
Social Capital and Civic Engagement. Romania has a low level of social capital as a result of the
systematic destruction of civil society and private property. Values and norms such as trust, transparency,
reciprocity and participation have been undermined. This is reflected in people's passivity, the inability to
articulate needs and to participate at the community level in activities of common interest, lack of initiative
and reluctance to assume responsibilities. Phase I of the Program has shown that the SDF approach can
support building social capital in Romania (see Annex 11). Phase II of the Program will build on this by:
(i) supporting CBOs, after the completion of the first sub-project; (ii) knowledge sharing and networking
activities for CBOs; and (iii) focusing more on the bridging aspects of social capital, especially as it relates
to decentralization and networking among CBOs.
In order to benefit from RSDF financing, CBOs will continue to be created applying the same procedure as
in Phase I of the Program: poor rural community groups will become legal entities in relation to the RSDF
through an act of association concluded after community meetings, signed by community members and
registered at the local mayor's office that has jurisdiction over the respective village or isolated human
settlement. The legal entity established through this procedure will be represented by a project management
committee (PMC) of three members (president, secretary and treasurer) designated by the rural project
community group and certified by the local mayor's office.
Under SDF II the partnerships between communities and local authorities will be enhanced through
experiential leaming (community members and local authorities representatives practicing collaboration
and participation).
-5 -



CDD. Romania is one of the pilot countries in ECA for the implementation of a broad-based CDD agerda.
Phase I of the Program has shown that this approach can work in Romania and there is evidence of greater
interest from Government and donors to mainstream the RSDF approach in other programs.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Under the Program, poor communities will articulate their priorities for assistance and participate in the
design and implementation of demand-driven sub-projects. Through this "leaming-by-doing" mechanisnm.
communities will: (i) satisfy specific needs; (ii) build their capacity to identify and prioritize demands and
mobilize and manage resources to design, implement, operate and maintain their own projects; (iii) foste:r
organization and participation capacity. The sub-projects will improve the infrastructure in poor rural
communities, develop income-generating activities in poor communities, and improve the quality of ser'ices
offered to disadvantaged groups through social service activities. The disadvantaged groups include pocr
elderly with no family support, homeless, women victims of domestic violence, poor women, poor parents
with dependent children, street children, poor pregnant teenagers, youth at risk. In addition, the prograni
will support CDD in Romania, with the potential of influencing other aspects of the Government's
programs in the same direction.
Evaluation of the trigger indicators for moving to the second phase (see Addendum I to Annex 1)
In approving the first phase of the APL, the Board also delegated to Regional management the
responsibility for approving the second phase, upon confirmation that: (i) the first phase, as implemented,
is consistent with the Program agreed by the Board; and (ii) five triggers are fulfilled.
L ess than two years after effectiveness (about 21 months of activity), there has been major progress in
Program implementation and achieving its objectives. In order to inform decision on moving to the seconcl
phase of the program, an independent benchmark assessment was prepared, as well as a Beneficiary
Assessment Study. The evaluation report assessed performance according to the triggers defined for
mloving to the second phase: (1) the project's institutional arrangements and their effectiveness in promoting
community- driven development; (2) the performance of local consultants providing promotion,
facilitation, appraisal, supervision; (3) the capacity of communities to prepare, submit and implement
sub-projects; (4) the project's monitoring and evaluation system; and (5) the disbursement capacity of
RSDF. The triggers referred to results to be achieved using both the Bank and the Council of Europe
Development Bank (CEB) funds. Although the availability of CEB funds was delayed with more than one
year and a half, the triggers for moving to the second APL have been met.
Trigger indicators have allowed for early identification of issues and definition of corrective measures.
Addendum 1 to Annex I provides a sunimary of achievements under the triggers, recommendations for
improvement, and agreed corrective actions. Fulfillment of triggers was verified by independent reviewers.
The overall assessment is summarized below.
J. Well functioning RSDF institution. RSDF was established and developed in a relatively short period of
time into an efficient, effective institution. The RSDF is adequately staffed and has been able to launch the
program, establish administrative and financial procedures and sub-project monitoring and evaluation
systems. Notably, the monitoring and evaluation system enabled timely decisions to be made and confirmed
that SDF I targets for key performance indicators have already been met. The sub-project cycle described
in the social fund operational manual has been tested and implemented. The progress made and
achievements of the RSDF compare favorably with other social funds and exceed the initial
- 6 -



accomplishrnents of most. Decentralization measures may be advisable in order to shorten the period
between sub-project submission and grants approval. Although administrative procedures are overall
satisfactory, RSDF needs to constantly watch a good balance between control and user- friendliness. Like
other funds, RSDF went through successive stages, at present, being faced with an over -control tendency,
manifested through unnecessary bureaucratic requirements that were not part of initial procedures. In SDF
II this tendency should be counteracted.
2. Poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups manifest interest, organize and participate in the
Project activities. Effective promotion and communication campaign were undertaken and facilitators
assisted communities organization and development. RSDF currently has available: (i) 25 trained
facilitators with experience in community development; (ii) 77 trained appraisers and supervisors with
experience in desk and field appraisal, with the capacity and experience to assist and supervise
communities and Project Management Committees (PMCs). As a result, 1,747 sub-project applications
have been received, exceeding the targeted 1,000 applications and implementation occurs in 386
communities, exceeding the target of 335 communities. 1533 new CBOs were created. The presence of
promoters and facilitators in poor rural communities, where other programs didn't penetrate in the past, is
highly appreciated by communities. Individuals from communities that have already implemented
sub-projects are ready to act as promoters of the project and should be used in the future. RSDF has been a
pioneering organization in training specialists in participatory community development. An unintended
effect of this process was that facilitators, appraisers and supervisors are in high demand and other projects
started making offers to, and hiring RSDF consultants. This positive indirect effect means that selection,
training and coordination of additional facilitators, appraisers and supervisors should continue.
Decentralization of RSDF under SDF II is expected to have a positive impact on the stabilization of local
consultants (nonpermnanent staff) and will decrease the rotation rate.
3. Sub-projects are financed and implemented. After less than two years from project effectiveness, 264
grants (Bank-financed) were approved (167 for small infrastructure, 41 for social services and 56 for
income generating sub-projects). The target of 200 sub-projects was thus exceeded. 82 sub-projects have
already been completed country wide, exceeding the target of 60 sub-projects. As a result of participating
in the project, these communities have: rehabilitated rural roads, bridges, water supply systems, community
centers, set up milk, sun flower seeds, wood processing activities, as well as fish packing and storing, fish
nursery, vegetable and fruits hotbeds activities and community bakeries. Communities have established
Maintenance Committees that will ensure sustainability of sub-projects. Community-based social services
provided to disadvantaged groups included: home care for elderly, shelters for street children, shelter for
homeless, social reintegration of institutionalized youth, family planning and tuberculosis prevention.
4. Agreed monitoring and beneficiary assessment are carried out.
A monitoring and evaluation system has been developed, implemented and the lessons leamed are being
incorporated into the revised procedures and policies of the RSDF. The MIS is providing information on
inputs, processes and outputs in terms of quantitative indicators. The Beneficiary Assessment showed that
beneficiaries perceive greater benefits where the project has been as compared to where the project did not
intervene (i.e. where the regular investment program of the government was continued) and showed that
social capital was enhanced (Annex 11). As a result of SDF I, the Operational Manual and the various
procedures have been adjusted.
5. At least 60 percent of the APL-I funds allocated to sub-projects are disbursed. All the funds from the
Bank have been allocated. Although the CEB funds were available only with one year and a half delay, 65
percent of the APL- I funds allocated to sub-projects were disbursed.
- 7 -



Future path of the RSDF after SDF II
For the time being, the second phase of the Program is also the last one of the Program. Further Bank
financing for subsequent stages of implementation could be considered in the future, depending upon
Government priorities, available fiscal resources and the implementation experience of the second phase.
Tfhe Steering Committee is developing a strategy for the future of RSDF beyond SDF II, to be submitted to
the Government. The options considered include: (i) extension of the life of RSDF and continuation of the
activity using budgetary allocations and funds from various donors, including the Bank; (ii) transformation
of RSDF into a center of excellence that will offer consultancy on poverty monitoring, poverty alleviation
and CDD; and (iii) closer linkage of the RSDF with the decentralization program, possibly merging it with
other agencies that finance local activities (details in F. 1.).
SDF I critical risks and the success of risk minimization measures.
The risk minimization measures proved to be effective in managing the seven risks identified for SDF I.
1. Un- sustainability of sub-projects. The risk minimization measures of (i) letting beneficiaries be in
charge with implementation (including procurement and contracting) and (ii) supporting partnerships with
local authorities have ensured the short-term sustainability of sub-projects. While this is still early days, +le
leading indicators for suastainability are good especially on technical and social aspects. The mediumr and
long term success of these measures will be further monitored and procedures changed as needed. For
instance SDF II will introduce post-appraisal and post approval remedial facilitation where problems with
community ownership are identified.
2. Political interference. To date, the program was not affected by political interference as confirmed by the
fact that beneficiaries report that the projects correspond to their own priorities. The adoption of
transparent criteria and procedures and the large promotion campaign have contributed to this result.
However, in order to further prevent any political interference, appraisal and supervision criteria will
continue to be refined, and inforrnation, education and communication activities will be carried out under
SI)F II.
3. Poor rural commnunities unable to submit sub-projects. The large number of applications received proved
that communities are able to submit good sub-projects. This result is partially due to the assistance
provided to communities from the poorest counties by RSDF facilitators, as well as by voluntary
facilitators and partly due to assistance from some local authorities. The key challenge under SDF II will
be to ensure that communities are identifying and preparing sub- projects and they are not simply used by
local authorities to justify pre-identified sub-projects, that do not respond to community needs.
4. Contractors unable to provide technologies appropriate for the small infrastructure works. Although the
concept of appropriate technologies is not familiar to Romanian contractors, the RSDF has already
established a good practice of using least cost (details in E. 1.) and appropriate technologies. This result
was possible due to the assistance provided by RSDF appraisers and supervisors. Under SDF II, RSDF
will prepare standard design modules that will further support cost-effective solutions.
5. Availability of co-financing. Despite the substantive efforts of RSDF and the Bank, CEB funds became
available only with one year and a half delay. The good results of SDF I convinced DFID to allocate grant
funds to RSDF. In addition, the Bank financed RDP may channel part of the funds through RSDF (3rd
window).
-8 -



6. Difficulties in recruiting and maintaining a high quality staff for RSDF. The Steering Committee agreed
with the policy of provision of competitive salaries to RSDF staff. This policy should continue to ensure
the same success of the program as to date.
7. Passive communities. The passivity of the poorest communities was counteracted by the activity of
facilitators who helped communities organize and contributed to identification of potential leaders, as well
as by the important demonstration effect of one community seeing how another one upgraded its
infrastructure and services by getting organized and being less passive.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The SDF II project, representing the second phase of the Program would support the continuation and
extension of activities supported under the first phase. Two key project components of SDF I will be
continued (RSDF Sub- Projects, and Institution Strengthening), though slightly amended to reflect lessons
learned (sections in italics highlight new or significantly revised components). A new component will be
added concentrating on knowledge and partnership building among stakeholders, as well as a new
sub-component for project monitoring and evaluation.
Project activities are clustered in the following project components:
Component A: RSDF sub-projects (US$ 25.86 million)
A. I. RSDF Sub-Project Development. The project will give grants to sub-projects prepared by recipients in
poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups, from the following categories:
A. 1.1. Small rural infrastructure: rehabilitate, upgrade, build or equip rural roads, water supply (small
scale piped water system), small bridges, community centers, small-scale flood defenses etc. within the
ceiling of $75,000 per sub-project grant. As it was the case with SDF I, SDF II will not finance the
rehabilitation of schools or health centers, since these needs are covered by existing government
investment plans and are (at least partially) addressed by other Bank financed projects.
A. 1.2. Communitv-based social services: social services for disadvantaged children (day care centers,
life skills development and post-institutionalization assistance for orphans and abandoned teenagers,
shelters for street children), shelters for homeless, home care for disadvantaged elderly etc. within a
ceiling of $20,000 per sub-project grant. As compared to SDF I, SDF II will also offer
community-based social services to youth at risk, such as youth gangs and Roma youth.
A. 1.3. Income generating activities: activities such as milk processing, wood processing, wool
processing, sun flower seeds processing, honey and auxiliary products production, solar tents,
greenhouses, community bakeries, handicrafis, resin oil production, fish nursery, fish packing and
selling etc. within the ceiling of $20,000 per sub-project grant.
A.1.4. Follow-up activities: fixing small problems that may appear in sub-projects already financed
by RSDF, within the ceiling of $1 0, 000 per grant, as well as second grant for innovative sub-projects
(such as waste collection and disposal activities) within the ceiling of $45,000 per sub-project grant,
in communities that have already successfully completed a sub-project. This is a new category
-9-



identified through the regular monitoring and evaluation activities of RSDF during the SDF I project.
A.2. Building Community Capacity. The project will support capacity building at community level through
preparation, facilitation, appraisal, supervision of sub-projects and provision of training.
Component B: Knowledge Sharing and Partnership Building ($0.26 million)
The SDF II's new component will have three main sets of activities:
*   information, education and communication (IEC) activities; while SDF Ifocused on the promotion of
the concept of the Program, SDF II willfocus more on IEC activities to underscore the principles of
community-driven development and clarify in more detail the RSDF procedures.
*   building "bridging" social capital by creating networks of "graduating" CBOs andfacilitating
continued partnership between local authorities and CBOs, especially in the area ofsustainability..
* building linkages with other national poverty reduction agencies and with projects with similar
set-up in the Region, including with the network of socialfunds for Eastern Europe and Central Asia.
Component C: Institutional Strengthening ($2.54 million)
The project will finance activities under two sub-components:
C. 1. RSDF institutional support, including establishment of 2-3 decentralized regional units and
publishing of the RSDF Newsletter;
C.2. Monitoring and Evaluation: This new sub-component will consolidate and build on the
monitoring and evaluation activities already carried out under SDF I. There are two main sets of
activities:
C.2.1. Monitoring:
i   continued support for the MIS with a special emphasis on improving the management of
information and adding indicators related to quality of works and services, sustainability and
social capital;
v support for a small unit with RSDF that would analyze the internal documents and
commission studies for M&E; and
financial audits;
C.2.2. Evaluation: commissioning a series of impact evaluations with a special emphasis on building
linkages with other Romanian institutions engaged in poverty reduction activities.
For clarification purposes, the table bellow is reflecting the SDF I and SDF II components, with new
components and sub-components in Italic.
SDF I components                                 SDF II components
A. RSDF Sub-projects                              A. RSDF Sub-projects.
A. 1. Financing sub-projects prepared by recipients in  A. 1. RSDF Sub-Project Development. Financing
poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups:  sub-projects prepared by recipients in poor rural
* small rural infrastructure (rehabilitate,  communities and disadvantaged groups, including
upgrade, build or equip);               youth at risk-
* community based social services;               * small rural infrastructure (rehabilitate,
* income generating activities and employment       upgrade, build or equip);
- 10-



opportunities.                                     * community based social services;
* income generating activities and
A.2. Training and technical assistance aimed at                 employment opportunities;
commnunity level capacity building for:                      0 follow-up activities.
participatory identification and prioritization of needs;    A.2. Building Community Capacity through
design, implementation and monitoring of sub-projects;    preparation, facilitation, appraisal, supervision of
use of cost-effective standards and appropriate       sub-projects and provision of training.
technologies for small infrastructure.
B: Knowledge Sharing and Partnership Building.
B. RSDF Institutional support                         C: Institutional Strengthening
B. 1. Strengthen the institutional capacity of the RSDF    C. 1. RSDF institutional support including
through training and technical assistance.            decentralized units.
B.2. Provide support to the overall management of the    C.2. Project monitoring and evaluation.
RSDF project.
A. RSDF Sub-projects:                Social Funds            25.86        90.2      19.52       97.6
A.I. Sub-Project Grants for:
(i) small rural infrastructure
(rehabilitate, upgrade, build or equip);
(ii) community-based social services;
(iii) income generation activities;
(iv) follow-up activities.
A.2. Building Community Capacity
through preparation, facilitation,
appraisal, supervision and provision of
training.
B. Knowledge Sharing and Partnership  Social Funds            0.26         0.9       0.20         1.0
Building.
C. Institutional Strengthening:      Institutional            2.54         8.9       0.28         1.4
C.1. RSDF institutional support;     Development
C.2. Project monitoring and evaluation.
Total Project Costs                       28.66      100.0       20.00      100.0
Front-end fee                        0.00         0.0        0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                         28.66       100.0      20.00       100.0
-1 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The principal policy and institutional refonn to which this program will contribute are: (i) building
responsive institutions; and (ii) improving local governance for more effective implementation of povert-v
alleviation programs. However, the relatively small size of the program makes it unlikely that it alone car
make a substantial country-wide difference, beyond the communities where it will have a direct impact.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits.
The expected project benefits are: (i) improved livelihood for project beneficiaries in poor rural
communities and from disadvantaged groups; (ii) increased social capital at local levels; and (iii) increased
civic engagement among beneficiaries. The project will improve infrastructure and social services through
sub-projects grants (thus supplementing and leveraging highly constrained local budgets). Income
generating activities will generate employment and revenues in very poor rural areas. More than 250
communities will benefit directly from the results of the Project. In addition, more active communities will
be able to articulate group interests and bring them to the attention of local government. It is expected that
local authorities involved in partnerships with CBOs and NGOs will increase their accountability and
become more open to consulting their constituencies. For evidence of.the positive impact of social capital
on sustainable development see: www.wor.d bnk org/poverty/scapital.
I'arget population. As a poverty-focused operation, the project addresses poverty reduction by targeting
poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups. The main targeting mechanism includes: (i) poverty
maps; (ii) eligibility criteria; (iii) definition of disadvantaged groups. Other targeting mechanisms are:
self-targeting by disadvantaged groups; acceptance of a clearly defined categories of sub-projects; ceilings
for grants.
(i) The poverty maps are used for identifying the poorest counties. Poor rural communities from these
counties are benefiting from bonuses awarded to sub-projects at the appraisal stage and from being
facilitated.
(ii) The eligibility criteria are used for defining communities that can submit sub-projects to RSDF. Poor
rural communities are defined as groups of poor rural householders facing the same problems and
obstacles, and having common interests. They can submit sub-projects if they meet the eligibility criteria
that were revised to include lessons leamed from SDF I and the recommendations made by two studies: Tlhe
Villages of Romania: Development, Poverty and Social Capital - Updating Targeting for RSDF (Sandu,
2000) and Study on Reaching Poor Communities and New Target Groups (Dancu, 2000). According to thie
revised poverty- related eligibility criteria, the RSDF considers a rural community to be eligible from a
poverty standpoint if it meets at least three of the following eight criteria:
1. Less than 50 percent of the village households have access to safe water in the courtyard or in front of
the courtyard.
2. More than 60 percent of the village households do not have access to electricity.
3. More than 50 percent of the children from grades 1-4 and/or grades 5-8 take more than an hour to reach
school by the usual transportation means.
4. Most of the inhabitants need more than 2 hours to reach a doctor by the usual transportation means.
5. There is no public transportation (bus or train) that pass at least once a day through the village or have
stops at a distance of no more than 2 km from the village.
6. The village is located more than 25 km from a city of 50 thousand inhabitants or more.
- 12 -



7. Less than 5 percent of the village households have functional telephone sets.
8. The only economic agents (private or state-owned) functioning in the village are small commercial units
(such as grocery).
(iii) under SDF n, in the disadvantaged groups, youth at risk will also be included.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The estimated period of implementation of the project is four years and a half, beginning in March 2002.
The proposed closing date is August 31, 2006.
RSDF. The project will use the same implementation arrangements as SDF I, i.e., the project oversight and
coordination will be done by RSDF, established in 1998 by Law 129 as an autonomous institution. The
RSDF operates under exemption of civil service regulations and pay schedules that allow competitive
wages and recruitment of highly competent employees. The RSDF is subject to strict control procedures
and auditing.
RSDF Steering Committee. The RSDF governance is assured by a nine-member Steering Committee
nominated by the Prime Minister and the President of Romania, and headed by a president. The Steering
Committee of the RSDF approves the annual reports to be submitted to the Prime Minister, which,
thereafter, become pub'ic documents. The Steenng Committee approves the RSDF's internal regulations,
strategy and policy, and the grants to be awarded to sub-projects upon recommendation of the sub-projects
appraisal sub-committee. The regulations, strategy, sub-project procedures and the standard grant
agreement are described in the Operational Manual. Any amendments made to the Operational Manual or
other legal agreements governing the RSDF, including the Law establishing the RSDF and the Subsidiary
Agreement between MPF and RSDF, must be agreed with the Borrower and the Bank before they are
adopted (see Annex 13 for details on RSDF Steering Committee).
RSDF Executive Unit. The daily activities of the RSDF are carried out by a small team of professionals
reporting to an Executive Director who manages the resources of the RSDF. The RSDF staff include a
professional financial manager and an accountant. Procurement and Management Information Systems
(MIS) specialists ensure monitoring and evaluation that leads to efficient implementation and
accountability. The Executive Director and key staff have been appointed after their qualifications and
terms of reference have been accepted by the Bank. Any changes in the personnel appointed to these
positions or the terms of their employment would be subject to prior Bank approval. The responsibilities of
the RSDF include, but are not limited to: (i) ensuring that the RSDF meets its objectives in an efficient and
effective way; (ii) maintaining the Operational Manual procedures and policies; (iii) reviewing all
applications and ensuring that the RSDF criteria are consistently applied (including the use of the checklist
and environmental review of all projects); (iv) presenting applications recommended for financing to the
Steering Committee; (v) supervising the progress of all approved projects; and (vi) building partnerships
with relevant institutions.
RSDF financial management system. The financial management system implemented under SDF I will
continue to be used under SDF II. The system meets the Bank minimum financial management
requirements in accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the Financial Management Initiative (FMI). Further
adjustments of the system will be performed, as needed, by RSDF staff. A detailed description of the
financial management system is presented in Annex 6.
RSDF monitoring and evaluation sub-unit. Based upon the lessons learned during the first phase, RSDF
- 13 -



will establish under the second phase a small sub- unit focused on monitoring and evaluation activities,
as well as the development of poverty-related studies based upon the data collected by RSDF staff and
consultants. In the first phase, the project relied exclusively on studies conmuissioned outside the
institution.
RSDF decentralization. RSDF will establish 2-3 decentralized regional branches. The decentralization
process will be a staged one. During the first stage, a pilot branch will be established, with coordination
responsibilities at regional level for IEC, facilitation and EAs training activities. After one year, the acti' ity
of the pilot branch will be evaluated and, if the results are positive, the branch will evolve to a second
stage, during which it will take over coordination responsibilities for supervision activities. In addition, 1-2
new, stage I regional branches will be established. In case the results of the evaluation are not positive,
RSDF will decide on the strategy to be pursued. Such a strategy could include provision of additional
capacity strengthening activities to the pilot branch. In any case, the second stage of decentralization will
not start until the operation of the first pilot is satisfactory. By the end of the Project it is envisaged that
RSDF will have at least 2 fully functional regional branches.
Sub-projects implementation. Sub-projects are implemented by a designated Executing Agent (EA). In the
case of rural communities, the EA is a Project Management Committee (PMC) elected by the community
(comprising a manager, secretary and treasurer). The community fully participates in: (i) identification and
prieritization of -.e.ds; (ii) _orntrbution (cash or in kind) to the sub-project; (iii) assistance to the appraisers
by providing the requested information; (iv) sub-project implementation, including procurement and
contracting, for achieving the agreed objectives; and (v) providing supervisors with the information needed
for the evaluation of the sub-project. The community is accountable and responsible for the efficient
implementation of the sub-project and participates in the operation and maintenance of the sub-project. It is
also encouraged to share experience with other communities and to disseminate good results, particularly
on strengthening the organizational capacity and building trust in order to achieve a multiplier effect. In the
case of sub-projects targeted at disadvantaged groups, the EA is an NGO, in partnership with the local
authorities.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Rationale for the Program. The Program alternatives considered and the reasons for rejection were
described in the PAD of the SDF I project.
Rationale for the APL instrument. The Social Fund approach was little known in the region at the time
when the SDF program was designed and its success in a former communist country was not evident. The
Romanian Government requested an APL because it wanted to see first if poor Romanian communities are
able to implement sub-projects and disburse funds, before agreeing to higher amounts of loans. In the
absence of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), the other two possibilities would have been: (i) providing
support to a social fund through an upfront bigger investment loan, and (ii) limiting support to a small size
investment project ($10 million) and seeking expansion through preparation of additional projects. The first
possibility was not favored by the Romanian Government since it would have implied larger financial
commitments and would have been faced with rigidities in the capacity to leam and adjust. The second
possibility would have prevented a longer term perspective on an important approach to development and
would have limited the leverage to support program expansion, under the same framework, in a flexible and
progressive way. The APL instrument offered the advantage of upfront agreement on a consecutive loan, if
benchmarks were fulfilled.
- 14 -



Rationale for the second phase expansion. For this second phase of the Program several project variants
were considered and rejected.
Limitation of the project to certain counties. The option of limiting the project to the poorest counties was
discussed and rejected. A nationwide approach versus the selected counties approach was favored, since
poor rural conmmunities are to be found in all counties, irrespective of their average poverty level.
Funding NGO strengthening programs. The option of funding NGO strengthening programs was rejected
due to the limited resources available and the need to respond to the main objective of the project, i.e.,
assisting poor, disadvantaged beneficiaries. The Project will fund sub- projects to provide
community-based social services to disadvantaged groups, to be implemented by NGOs.
Establishing a self-sustainable micro- credit scheme. Direct financing of investment in income-generating
activities through matching grants ("matching" implying co-finance of the investment by the grant
recipients) continues to be preferred to the establishment of a micro-credit scheme. The option was
preferred because: (i) financial services are still not available to facilitate savings and credit in poor rural
communities; (ii) the size of the RSDF is too small and the proposals for this category of sub-projects are
too few to justify complex activities required for setting up credit schemes; and (iii) income generating
productior units 5zoi;sdinptioU1 cooperative, agricultural company, association or foundation) alrcad-
established under SDF I may seek credits from commercial banks, for expanding activities.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                   (PSR).Ratings--
.___ ___ ___ ____ ___ _ _  '__  (Bank-financed,projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                       Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Strengthening the capacity of the   Employment and Social               S              S
Ministry of Labor and Social        Protection
Solidarity.
Rehabilitation of severely damaged  School Rehabilitation               S              S
schools, including schools in poor rural
areas.
De- institutionalization of children.  Child Welfare                    S              S
Development of rural financial services. Rural Finance
Decentralization, local govemment   Rural Development (Planned)
development.
Sustainable management of natural    Forestry (Planned)
resources.
Poverty alleviation.                Irrigation Rehabilitation and
Reform (Planned)
Poverty alleviation.                Rural Education (Planned)
Social Protection.                  Social Sector Development (Not
rated yet)
- 15 -



|Other development agencies
fPoverty                          UNDP Poverty Alleviation
Strategy
P'overty and gender               UNDP Economic
Empowerment of Rural Women
in Romania
Rural development                 Special Accession Program for
Agriculture and Rural
_____________________________     Development (SAPARD)
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Pilojects with similar objectives and targeted population. Two projects currently under preparation may
acdress the needs of the same population as the SDF.
(i, The Bank financed Rural Development project (RDP) is not targeting poor communities, but is
financing projects in selected rural communities from preselected counties. In order to avoid possible
cdplication or confusion created by different criteria and procedures, it was agreed that the RDP will have
a, ,pecial window (the 3rd window) implemented by the RSDF. In this way, communities for which the
SDF eligibility criteria apply will get funds through the same mechanism, i.e., the RSDF. In addition, the
PDP will take advantage of the social capital enhancement proccss promoted "'y the RSD'9, -iF wcll as of
trn institutional capacity built at local and county level.
(ii) The EU financed SAPARD program is still in the preparation stage. Discussions are continuing in
cirder to avoid duplication and confusion.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
(i) Lessons learnedfrom SDF I and incorporated in the design of SDF II.
The proposed second phase builds on the substantial experience accumulated during SDF I which was
carefully analyzed by the RSDF in its Evaluation and Monitoring report for year 2000, and by the
Beneficiary Assessment delivered in November 2000. A number of studies have also contributed to the
rationale for new activities to be included into SDF II.
Based on RSDF experience, lessons leamed can be grouped into: a) lessons learned on project
objectives; b) lessons learned on project components and outputs; and c) lessons learned on RSDF
procedures. The recommended changes are reflected in the changes considered for SDF II.
a) Lessons leamed on project objectives:
There is demonstrated potential in poor communities for civic engagement. Community empowerment
can go beyond needs identification and participation in problem solving; members of the community
who learned how to get out of passivity and participate in community projects become more engaged in
civic activities.
Under SDF I proposals were received for social services sub-projects addressing needs of youth at risk,
i.e.. groups of people who may not be already disadvantaged, but are at a high risk of falling into this
category. This category of population was not targeted in SDF I, but should be considered under SDF
Tl.
- 16-



There is increasing evidence that the RSDF approach is beneficial for sensitizing authorities to CDD.
SDF II should increase its impact on state institutions for advancing CDD.
b) Lessons learned on project components and outputs:
The self-organization process initiated by the SDF I needs to be reinforced. Communities that receive
RSDF grants want to communicate, share experience and eventually organize themselves in a network
that will promote CDD in Romania. Communities that completed sub-projects are the best promoters
of the RSDF. Consequently, SDF II will support such activities under the new component B.
RSDF needs to focus during SDF II on important aspects related to monitoring and evaluating its
activities, analyzing the poverty-related data which became available to it. Findings of such analyses
need to be disseminated to interested institutions. All these activities will be consolidated under
component C.3.
c) Lessons learned on RSDF procedures:
Community contracting that gave communities full control over sub-project implementation (including
managing funds, hiring contractors, procuring materials) proved to be the best learning by doing
method. Efforts should continue for: promoting effcetive con-=irmkiy participation, timely transfer of
funds to community accounts, support indepcndent project management by democratically elected
committees, reinforce transparency and accountability requirements, foster partnerships between
CBOs, local authorities, NGOs and contractors.
Transition societies lack usually a "maintenance culture". SDF I proved that communities are ready to
assume, in partnership with local authorities, maintenance responsibilities. Maintenance Committees
were established and users fees were collected. Under SDF II, RSDF will put more emphasis on
maintenance awareness, training and organization among members of communities. Maintenance
Handbooks will be developed for each category of small infrastructure from the menu. The Handbooks
will be given to communities at the time of the signing of the Grant Agreement.
Communities which have successfully completed sub-projects have demonstrated capacity to build on
their experience. At present, communities can apply for a second grant only after one year. In case
sufficient funds will be available to RSDF, the Steering Committee could decide to allow communities
to receive a second grant during the same year.
Communities often succeed in making savings under specific grant budget lines; communities should be
allowed to keep the savings and use them for increasing the scope of the initial project or for covering
additional needs.
Facilitation results in higher community participation and better quality of applications. Facilitation
was conducted by RSDF community facilitators as well as by voluntary facilitators. Since RSDF
received good applications from communities facilitated by volunteers, this approach should be
encouraged in SDF II. The volunteer facilitators may be trained and certified by RSDF.
Facilitation of projects can provide advantages to communities, even if no sub-project application
results. Local action and cooperation without the requirement for financial resources can lead to
solving local problems.
- 17 -



Sub-projects with better participation in the design phase also have better participation in the
implementation phase.
Promotion and networking is very effective. People respond to the success of their neighbors and learn
best from practical examples.
PMCs need substantial training for sub-project implementation; SDF II will pay increased attention to
develop the skills of PMC members, to provide more user-friendly guidelines on procurement and
accounting procedures.
Supervisor's reports show that some communities need additional facilitation to improve likelihood of
sustainability. Post approval and post appraisal facilitation need to be included in SDF II.
Sometimes, local authorities perceive sub-projects as negative competition; the IEC activities under
SDF II will address this issue for removing barriers to communication and promoting partnerships.
Communities which have partnerships with local governments or other institutions are most likely to
have successful sub-projects that are also sustainable.
Until now, RSDF did not have tihe timn. to focus JAt diisernitiating general information related to its
activity. Under SDF II, it will start issuing a Newsletter.
(ii) Lessons learned and international best practices incorporated in the design of SDF II.
Vulnerable groups are at the center of the newest thinking about poverty. In this context, a group is
vulnerable when there is a high probability that it will experience poverty. SDF II will broaden the
targeted population of disadvantaged groups to youth at risk, for which innovative community based
social services will be financed.
Table 3.1 below summarizes the key findings of studies undertaken both to monitor and evaluate SD)F
I activities and also to prepare SDF II.
Table 3. 1: Lessons learned and actions taken
The Villages of Romania:     RSDF geographical targeting    Revised poverty-related eligibility
Development, Poverty and Social mechanisms need to be improved criteria; a rural community is
Capital - Updating targeting for  so as to increase access for very  currently eligible for RSDF
RSDF, Sandu, 2000            poor villages from the plain  funding if it meets at least three
areas.                       out of eight criteria.
RSDF Beneficiary Assessment,  The local authorities need to be  A new component dedicated to
Metro Media Transilvania, 2000 sensitized on the RSDF values   knowledge sharing and
and approach to CDD given the  partnership building activities is
high level of satisfaction among  included in SDF II; local
sub-projects beneficiaries (more  authorities will be involved in
than 90%).                   partnership building activities
including training on
procurement, participation,
accountability, maintenance,
- 18-



sustainability.
Study on Reaching Poor      RSDF needs to address the needs Under SDF II, the menu of
Communities and New Target   of disadvantaged groups which  social services sub-project types
Groups, Dancu 2000          have not been covered, so far   is expanded to include activities
(youth at risk); and RSDF needs addressed to youth at risk. Under
to make application forms and   SDF II the number of Roma and
guides more accessible to ethnic Hungarian speaking appraisers,
minorities.                 supervisors and facilitators will
be expanded and the application
forms are being translated in
Hungarian.
RSDF Evaluation and         RSDF needs to focus more on   Under SDF II, a separate
Monitoring Report, 2000     monitoring and evaluating    sub-component will consolidate
activities, analysis and    monitoring and evaluation
dissemination of its findings.    activities.
SDF I Benchmarks Evaluation:  RSDF recognized the potential  Under SDF II, RSDF will have
External Review Mission Report, value of decentralizing some  2-3 local units to coordinate
Weissman, Barrientos, 2000    tasks without compromising  activities in the sub-project cycle.
sub-project quality and
- _administrative control.
Progress under the Small Rural  RSDF should investigate the    Under SDF H, a new
Infrastructure Component and   possibility to support already    sub-component is included for
Recommendations, Sinke, 2001  completed sub-projects and also  follow-up activities aiming at
reward successful communities  fixing problems occurring after
awarding a second grant. Also,  sub-project completion and also
more focus is needed on     awarding second grants to
qualitative monitoring indicators. successful communities for
specific sub-projects (e.g. waste
collection and disposal facilities).
SDF II will use a refined set of
qualitative monitoring indicators.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Govermnent, the poor communities and the NGOs remain strongly committed to the Program, as
evidenced by the commitment of public resources to RSDF, the flow of sub-projects submitted to RSDF,
the willingness of beneficiaries to contribute to sub-projects costs. A new Steering Committee was
nominated after the elections in November 2000. Two members from the former Steering Committee were
nominated in the new committee and the former President was invited to assume a consultative role. The
Prime Minister's representative in the Steering Committee is the state councilor in charge with the social
sector who also coordinates the Anti-Poverty and Social Inclusion Promotion Commission under the Prime
Minister.
The borrower participated in the joint review of SDF I benchmarks and concluded that SDF I and the
Program should continue with the second phase, SDF II. The Law 129/1998 that established the RSDF
(passed by the Parliament with no cons) was amended, to better reflect the lessons from SDF I included in
SDF II.
- 19 -



Government of Romania request for an increased loan for SDF II
[n light of the success of the first phase, the Govemnment of Romania has asked the Bank to increase the
loan amount for the second phase, from the originally planned $10 million to $20 million. The request is
justified for several reasons:
(i) the country's needs are significant, an impressive number of sub-projects proposals have already been
submitted and are waiting for funds to become available;
(ii) the possibility to cover these needs with funds from the CEB, has already been exhausted;
(iii) the remaining financial gap needs to be covered, in order to meet the expectations of the poor
communities and keep the positive momentum.
The increased loan amount will be accommodated within the existing overall CAS envelope, in both the low
and the high case scenarios.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank initiated the Program and agreed to its full implementation on the conditiut that benchmarks for
SDF I are satisfied. The first phase was successful and the Bank decided to continue its involvement in
order to carry on the transfer of intemational experience, and support the mobilization of additional
funding.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
As is the case with other social funds, the demand-driven character of sub-projects precludes the possibility
of undertaking an ex-ante cost-benefit analysis of the Project. However, basic cost effectiveness analysis
will be carried out during the appraisal of individual sub-projects according to procedures described in the
Operational Manual.
For SDF I, an ex-post cost analysis of small infrastructure sub-projects was carried out on a case-studies
basis (Progress under the Small Rural Infrastructure Component and Recommendations, Sinke, 2001). The
project-by project data collection and analysis confirmns that RSDF's small rural infrastructure sub-projects
are executed for less than two third (62.2%) of the cost of comparable non- RSDF works. The largest
variance with non- RSDF financed execution is found in the case of community centers rehabilitation
performed at 34% of the cost of non-RSDF financed projects.
Project design for RSDF small rural infrastructure sub-projects is contracted out at slightly over half
(52.3%) of the design cost of comparable non- RSDF financed projects. The largest variances with non-
RSDF financed projects are found among road projects at 50.4%.
In the area of site supervision, RSDF financed sub-projects are also substantially cheaper (57.3%) than
comparable non- RSDF projects.
- 20 -



It is difficult to quantify the benefits of RSDF financed sub-projects due to their qualitative nature. Benefits
include improved access to schools, health care units and markets, reduced likelihood of diseases caused by
polluted water or lack of drinking water, availability of jobs, improved business environment, availability
of social services to disadvantaged groups etc. SDF 11 will enhance its assessments of the benefits of both
individual sub-projects and the overall program through its program of monitoring and evaluation (see
Annex 2)
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial analysis of sub-projects. Financial analysis is carried out as part of each sub-project appraisal.
Communities and executing agencies are confirming their counterpart contribution when submitting the
sub-project proposal. The minimum levels of the contribution (in-kind or cash) are: 10 percent of the
sub-project grant for small rural infrastructure- 5 percent of the sub-project grant for community based
social services; 15 percent of the sub-project grant for income generating activities; matching grants or 5
percent of the sub-project grant for follow up sub-projects. The case-based analysis of SDF I infrastructure
sub-projects showed that the contribution percentage was exceeded in all cases. The average community
contribution stands at 11.7% of the grant amount. The contribution is made of both labor and cash,
although cash is minimum. For the 9 sample cases, the average number of beneficiaries per project is 586.
The average value of the contribution per beneficiary is the equivalent of $18 This i; 9 l'! value i:i
compared to the base minimum national gross wage, which stood at $52 per r.ouil as per iMiarch 2001. At
an average household size of 4-7 (depending upon the region), the per capita minimum income per month is
roughly between $7 and $12. The average value of the community contribution per beneficiary is
approximately twice of the beneficiary's monthly income. There was on average one active participant for
every 8.4 beneficiaries. Since the population of many poor rural communities is made mostly of elderly and
young children, the one participant per 8.4 beneficiaries represents the majority of the working age
population.
A quantitative estimate of the total recurrent costs is not possible since the Project is demand-driven and the
distribution of sub-project types is unknown. According to the amendments of Law 129/1998, the
maintenance of small infrastructure projects is the duty of the local authorities together with the sub-project
Maintenance Committee.
The recurrent costs generated by RSDF financed infrastructure sub-projects have two components: (i) cost
of regular operation and maintenance (preventive and curative) and (ii) cost of depreciation or replacement.
The sample-based analysis indicates that for the current investment, the real discount rate is low.
Therefore, only the cost of depreciation should be taken into account. The average maintenance cost as
percentage of the investment cost (new construction or rehabilitation) stands at 4.6%. Maintenance
requirements are highest for roads and lowest for bridges and the water supply systems (gravity fed). The
average maintenance cost per year per beneficiary is $6.53.
The average depreciation cost is 8.5% of the investment cost. This is mainly caused by the relatively short
life span expectancy for roads (10 years). The average replacement cost per year per beneficiary is $13.79.
The total yearly recurrent cost requirement per beneficiary is slightly over $20. Whereas the funding for
maintenance has to be raised by beneficiary communities and local authorities, the responsibility to reserve
funding for depreciation depends on the type of infrastructure and the degree of decentralization.
- 21 -



Financial management capacity of the implementing agency. RSDF's financial management capacity was
evaluated by the Bank under SDF I and was found satisfactory. RSDF has an accounting system linked to
a well functioning Management and Information System (MIS) and skilled staff who have been handling
financial responsibilities and accounting for three years. A cost accounting system will be integrated into
the upgraded MIS to strengthen monitoring and to ensure the cost/effectiveness of sub-projects under SDF
II. The flow of funds is described in the RSDF Administrative and Financial Procedures Handbook.
Fiscal Impact:
The main fiscal impact of the project will be the counterpart funding required from the Government,
estimated at $6.17 million (see above for a discussion of impacts of operation and depreciation) Under SDF
I, the government contribution in cash amounted to $5 million and was used for co- financing sub-projects
and the part of the initial costs of setting up the RSDF institution.
3. Technical:
Sub-projects cut across a range of sectors. In each sector, RSDF is complying with Romanian standards.
The experience of SDF I indicates that in the case of infrastructure, these standards are appropriate to
large-scale public works that use centrally designed technologies. RSDF has already promoted more
appropriate technologies that are basic and durable, match the skill available to beneficiaries, and are
within the communities' means to establish, operate and maintain works. Contractors under RSDF
sub-projects have already adopted least cost solutions. This apptzaz w,i.! entiniee to be supported under
SDF II. An analysis of local prices for labor, materials and equipment will be-completed and will serve as
basis for estimates of project costs to be used during sub-projects appraisal. Unit costs databases will be
used in order to rationalize the cost-effectiveness of the sub-projects.
Sectorial policies. The members of the RSDF Steering Committee that represent various sectors: public
works, labor and social protection, local administration, finance will continue to promote coherent links
between the RSDF policies that encourage community initiatives and the overall sectorial policies.
4. Institutional:
Implementation arrangements for SDF II will involve the same institutional roles for implementing entities
as currently performed under SDF I. The implementing agency for SDF II will continue to be the RSDF,
established by Law 129/1998, amended in 2000 and 2001. The condition for Board submission to have the
new amendment of the law passed by the Parliament extending the life of the institution and increasing the
government contribution to the Fund was fulfilled. Due to the importance of local authorities' actions and
attitudes seen under SDF I and in view of the changed political/administrative landscape, more emphasis
will be put on the role of local authorities in sub-project identification and implementation. LA
representatives will be invited to participate in the local meetings and in the prioritization process.
Partnership agreements between CBOs, NGOs and LA will be requested for the sub-project implementation
and post-project operation and maintenance. The updated Operational Manual and the facilitation,
appraisal and supervision Guides will reflect these changes.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The overall executing agency is the RSDF. Grant recipients will execute individual sub-projects. The grant
recipients are: CBOs, NGOs in partnership with LAs and community-based productive group associations.
4.2 Project management:
The RSDF will manage the project as a Project Management Unit (PMU), under the guidance of the
RSDF Steering Committee. As such, it will be respo nsible for project implementation and management in
the areas of: (i) procurement; (ii) financial managementt; (iii) liaison with ministries and agencies and (iv)
- 22 -



auditing.
RSDF will be responsible for preparing project budgets, updating the Operational Manual and various
Guidelines, preparing the Project Management Reports (PMRs) for reporting purposes and semi-annual
reports. It is agreed that:
*   any changes to the Law 129/1998, the Operational Manual and the Guidelines would require prior
Bank approval;
*   RSDF will submit semi-annual reports to the Bank;
*   a mid-term review will be held before April 30, 2004, based upon a mid-term report to be submitted to
the Bank by February 28, 2004.
Ahead of the mid-term review, RSDF will develop an action plan to strengthen project implementation and
sustainability so as to:
*   formalize the partnerships between communities and local authorities;
*   establish a more coherent link between community initiatives and overall sectorial policies;
*   establish control groups and define formal users committees and train them;
3   define an exit/transformation strategy going beyond the program period to integrate RSDF with the
Government's overall framework fo, pibLiz se',toi ieforms and decentralization.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A unique design feature of SDF is that it promotes a new approach to community development by
providing an opportunity for communities to effectively participate in the identification, preparation and
implementation of their own development projects in collaboration with LAs, NGOs and private
companies. SDF II, as SDF I, will provide direct financing to communities which will be responsible for
implementation of sub-projects, including procurement and contracting. While conmmunities retain
ownership of the entire process, appropriate mechanisms for encouraging transparent and accountable
management are ensured and overseen by RSDF.
Procurement arrangements under SDF II will utilize and build on the procedures established and the lessons
learned under SDF I. As in the preceding program phase, the exact mix of goods and services to be
financed will depend on the results of demand-driven sub-projects. PMCs and/or EAs will take primary
responsibility for procuring goods, services and civil works, but will receive overall support and guidance
from RSDF. PMCs and EAs will receive specific training in this area before project implementation, they
will also use the RSDF Operational Manual and handbook on procurement as guidelines.
Procurement at the community level will be guided by Community Participation in Procurement (para 3.15
of the Procurement Guidelines). RSDF will encourage community involvement and contribution in all
aspects of project implementation. Communities will manage sub-projects, hiring skilled contractors and
purchasing materials locally to ensure minimal delays and reduce inefficiencies due to losses during
transport and storage. Data bases with standard price lists will be maintained and updated regularly by
RSDF, and will guide conmmunities in their procurements. Project Management Committees and NGOs
will comply with the grant agreement and will follow the procedures detailed in the Operational Manual
and the Procurement handbooks. Agencies/contractors, selected based on strict criteria established in the
Operational Manual, will use whenever possible community labor and will purchase goods or materials
prescribed in their contract agreement signed with the community. Communities wili hire contractors of the
required skill level, using guidelines established in the procurement handbook, and Aill procure materials
- 23 -



by obtaining three quotes from three suppliers, when available, and selecting the supplier with the lowest
cost who fulfills their requirements. RSDF will disburse funds to the communities in tranches against
completion of tasks certified by supervisors.
Two RSDF staff have been trained in procurement and gained considerable experience during the
implementation of SDF I.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The established RSDF will be responsible for the overall SDF II financial management system and
reporting.
RSDF has already set up under SDF I a well functioning MIS that integrates financial management
components. The system is capable of providing accurate and timely information regarding project
resources and expenditures, including planning, intemal controls, accounting, financial reporting and
respond to external audit requirements.
The existing financial management information system will require a certain degree of customization and
adjustments to respond to the specifics of the new project (additional component, possible updated memn of
sub-projects). RSDF existing staff has already developed in-house a number of these adjustments. It was
agreed that all adjustments needed will be performned in accordance with the Financial Management Action
Plan. The financial inanapement Eyst=m was reviewed by a Bank Financial Management Specialit and
certified as meeting the Bank's minimum financial management requirements in accordance with the BanLk's
:)P/BP 10.02 and the Financial Management Initiative (FMI).
Recipients of the grants for the sub-projects must give an evidence to RSDF that they have opened a
sub-project account in a commercial bank. Supervisors are controlling the financial records of recipients
before agreeing with the release of a new tranche. Decentralized MPF structures are also undertaking their
normal financial controls.
A Special Account (SA) will be opened at a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank (this may be the
Romanian Commercial Bank - RCB, where the SA is held for the SDF I project, for economies of scale and
easiness of operation). Government contribution will be sent in a separate project account. The Governrrent
contribution for the SDF II Project will be allocated through the Ministry of Public Administration (MPA),
as opposed to the SDF I Project in which the Government contribution was allocated through the General
Secretariat of the Government.
The RSDF will have the project accounts audited (including all special and project accounts and all
statements of expenditures) in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, by independent
auditors acceptable to the World Bank. The cost of audits performed by private sector auditors will be
eligible for financing from the Bank loan.
The accounting software will be updated in order to be able to produce for the new project: specific chaits
of accounts; detailed financial statements; reporting formats and methods; set up internal control
procedures; disbursement and flow of funds arrangements. The RSDF staff have already performed some
of the adjustments needed by SDF II and will finalize all remaining steps in accordance with the Financial
Management Action Plan.
The RSDF will maintain the project accounts in accordance with Romanian Accounting Standards. The
RSDF will be responsible for preparing Project Management Reports (PMRs) and Statements of Expenses
'SOEs) and submitting them to the Bank.
- 24 -



The RSDF will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of funds by
source, summary of withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress achieved and the objectives for the
forthcoming quarter and semester.
Before submission of the SDF II project for Board approval, the RSDF was subject to a review and
certification process conducted by a World Bank Financial Management Specialist to confirm that its
Financial Management System (i) satisfies the World Bank financial management requirements as stated in
OP/BP 10.02 and (ii) produces, accurate and timely information on the status of the project as required by
the World Bank for PMR- based disbursements under the Financial Management Initiative (FMI).
The result of the above assessment was that the Financial Management System for the project meets the
minimum Bank's financial management requirements and the Annex 4-B FMI Certification was issued, as
it is the case with SDF I. The Project will use the traditional disbursement method (SOE-based). An
agreement will be reached with the Government on the remaining steps that are needed to strengthen the
Financial Management System as mentioned in the financial management action plan.
The Project faces the following major risks in the financial management area:
Country geu'er JX- rislu
The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Romania will be carried out during
2002-03. A summary of the main country generic risks is given below.
The banking system in Romania is still perceived as potentially sensitive to liquidity problems. Despite a
certain degree of restructuring and 'cleaning' of the banking sector, the systemic risk is still perceived as
significant, as some commercial banks are regarded as not very safe. The main problems reside in asset
quality, bad-loans percentage, relatively high foreign currency exposure, etc. It is perceived that by opening
the Special Account at the Romanian Commercial Bank (RCB), the biggest Romanian bank, the banking
risk is kept at an acceptable level. The Government is planning to privatize RCB during the next year.
Inflation and USD/ROL exchange rate evolution are remaining a major problem for Romania. In 2000,
inflation was 40%, while the devaluation was 42%. The Government has estimated a 25% inflation for
2001.The actual cumulated figure for the 8 months ended 31 August 2001 is 18.9%, while the USD/ROL
exchange rate has increased by 15.9% over the same period. The risk for this project is that all cost
estimations may be affected by inflation. This was tackled by using a stable currency for estimates (USD)
and updating the ROL equivalent amounts using the exchange rate at the time of payment.
During the recent past some concerns have been raised regarding fraud, waste and abuse of donor funds in
the region. Perceived corruption as reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement. The risk
that the Bank's funds will not be used as intended for financing the defined investment program is judged as
acceptable by introducing several measures: in principal the 'ring-fencing' of the project through the use of
the existing RSDF and the segregation of duties within RSDF; close monitoring and supervision of the
sub-projects implementation by the RSDF staff; proper supervision from the Bank's teams; and an
independent yearly audit of project funds by a reputable audit firm, acceptable to the Bank.
The SDF I Project has always received unqualified (clean) audit opinions and the reports were submitted to
the Bank in time. It is perceived that by appointing the auditors before each fiscal year's end and close
- 25 -



supervision, the project will be in compliance with audit covenants.
The Borrower (Government of Romania) had a few audit items overdue as at 30 June 2001 on a small
number of Bank projects and has agreed to remedy the situation during the second half of 2001. To date,
only one Bank Project has overdue audit reports.
Project specific risks
The Project faces two major risks in the financial management area:
The first risk is that the RSDF management will assume the authority and responsibility for every
aspect of the project, thereby exposing it to possible risks of collusion and corruption. To address this
risk: (i) all payment orders will be signed jointly by the director and finance manager and (ii) the
existing supervision and evaluation mechanism of the beneficiaries' activities and payments, done by
the RSDF representatives before the next tranche payments will continue to be made by the RSDF.
Moreover, the complete segregation of duties amongst RSDF financial-accounting staff members will
have to be achieved.
The second risk is that the project is exposed to delays in payments to beneficiaries: (i) due to the
7agaatules required on both Bank Loan funds and Goverunent cotitributiz.,3 arn (;,i). iLadeuuate
counterpart funds in the Government project accounts. The experience on existing projects indicate that
this risk is to a large extent contained by adequate supervision by the Bank and has not been a problem
recently. However, the risk of delays in payments from the Government contribution may be influenced
by two factors:
*     by implementing the recent change in the RSDF's Law, whereby the Government Contribution for
the SDF II Project will be allocated through the Ministry of Public Administration (MPA), as opposed to
the SDF I Project where the Government contribution was allocated through the General Secretariat of the
Government;
*     by the fact that, as the SDF II Project has not yet been negotiated and ratified by the date when the
requests for the 2002 budget were made, there is a risk that insufficient funds may be made available for
2002 from the Government.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
At the time the SDF I project was negotiated the environmental category F did not exist, and the project
was rated as a category B project. An environmental checklist has been developed in accordance with
Romanian standards that were included in the Operational Manual. Sub-project applications included
appropriate environmental checks and clearances that were checked during the desk and field appraisal.
The implementing agencies capacity to manage environmental aspects have been assessed and found
satisfactory based on the experience under SDF I. The same system will be maintained through SDF II.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
- 26 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Environmental impact is monitored under each sub-project as part of regular supervision and included in
relevant monitoring and evaluation studies.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Two social development outcomes are sought by the project: promoting social capital enhancement and
increasing civic engagement. The good experience of SDF I with building social capital at the community
level will be continued. SDF II will in addition promote individual civic engagement.
The key social issues considered during the preparation of the second phase of the APL were: (i) the ability
to target poor rural communities and (ii) the possibility of broadening the disadvantaged groups category in
order to address the needs of youth at risk. Regarding tue first ibsu, based or analyses of the coverage of
SDF I, the following recommendations were made and were incorporated in the design of SDF II:
*   modification of the poverty-related eligibility criteria, to allow applications from poor cornmunities
from plain areas (The Villages of Romania: Development, Poverty and Social Capital - Updating
Targeting for RSDF, Sandu, 2000);
-   translation of application guides and forms into the Hungarian language (Study on Reaching Poor
Communities and New Target Groups, Dancu, 2000);
*   recruitment of individuals who speak Roma or Hungarian to be trained and serve as facilitators and
appraisers/supervisors in communities with a majority of Roma or Hungarian population (Study on
Reaching Poor Communities and New Target Groups, Dancu, 2000).
Regarding the second issue, SDF II will continue to target disadvantaged groups, but will also target youth
at risk. NGOs will continue to be used as intermediaries for addressing the needs of these groups.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Social assessment was used in the design of the SDF program. It is playing an important role in
implementation of the Program and in the design of the SDF II. A beneficiary assessment commissioned by
RSDF helped document the perception of benefits and influenced the design of SDF II. A targeted social
assessment of zones which didn't submit proposals to RSDF led to recommendations for addressing the
specific needs of ethnic minorities. During the preparation of the Program, consultations were organized
with key stakeholders: inhabitants of poor rural communities, local authorities (LAs) representatives and
local NGOs. The key stakeholders were involved in the implementation of the first phase and will continue
to be involved in the second phase.
Poor rural communities. The procedure used under SDF II will be the same as the one developed under
SDF I: poor communities will organize public meetings and decide, in a transparent and participatory
manner on their priority problem. The community will elect a three persons PMC. The members of the
PMC will register a CBO with the local mayor office, presenting the minutes of the public meeting signed
- 27 -



by participants. According to Law 129/1998, the CBO receives thus juridical status for its relationships
with RSDF. RSDF will continue to support building the local organization capacity by sending facilitators
to poor rural communities in the poorest counties (identified from the poverty maps).
Local authorities. Although local authorities are not direct recipients of grants, they have a key role, as
partners to the CBOs (in the case of rural infrastructure) and to the NGOs (in the case of community based
social services sub-projects). In SDF II, LA will be involved in the process of establishing community
priorities. Whenever possible, local authorities will contribute to the project costs, especially by financing
the feasibility study for small infrastructure projects. The sub-project maintenance committee must also
establish a partnership with the LA, in order to agree on the maintenance responsibilities. NGOs submitting
proposals must give evidence of a partnership agreement with the LA for ensuring the sustainability of th,
community-based social service.
l,ocal NGOs. Local NGOs are direct applicants and implementation partners for the community based
social services. Following lessons leamed from SDF I, RSDF will provide support for increasing the
capacity of local NGOs to submit sub-projects especially in counties in which structures of the civic society
are still very weak.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs will continue to be directly involved in the SDF II project, as implementing partners for the
community- based social services. Under SDF II's new component "Knowledge Sharing and Partnership
Building", RSDF will support networking activities of the newly created CBOs (meetings, newsletter, etc.)
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
(levelopment outcomes?
The institutional arrangements have been designed under SDF I (SDF PAD 1998) and have proven
successful.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The performance monitoring indicators include social indicators that will be evaluated. Beneficiary and
stakeholders assessments are planed, in order to evaluate the project impact on the inclusiveness,
satisfaction, trust and self-organization capacity of beneficiaries. The planned small monitoring and
evaluation unit to be established under SDF 11 will contribute to focusing activities and using feedback ior
fine-tuning program implementation.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followinT safeguard policies asly to the groiect?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*          0 Yes 0 No
- 28 -



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental issues are discussed under Section 5.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability would be addressed at two levels:
a) The sustainability of project benefits is likely to be high, based on the experience of SDF I, with no
significant risks. As regards technical sustainability the evidence from the first post -completion
assessments is positive in terms of the quality of construction and the maintenance of the infrastructure and
services. To confirm this, a special quality assurance review will be carried out by an independent audit
(similar to a technical and service audit). Social aspects are also scoring high given the participation of
communities in sub-project identification and implementation in SDF I. The Beneficiary Assessment found
a great sense of ownership and satisfaction with the results which also assure sustainability.
As regard institutional and financial sustainability, each sub-project proposal will continue to contain an
operational and maintenance plan, which include financial and institutional arrangements such as written
commnitment of local authorities to continue financing the service, and/or proof that a comununity- based
operation/maintenance committee has been established. However, such plans are not going to be enough to
assure the institutional aspects. Therefore the SDF II will also address sustainability through:
*   development of specific monitoring indicators for supervision and post-implementation assessments
that will enable RSDF management to spot potential problems early on;
*   implementation of the recommendations of an intemational expert review (see Sinke 2001);
*   enhancing the emphasis of the capacity building activities under the Project on sustainability, especially
towards the end of the implementation of a sub-project;
*   assuring the continued formal status of the PMCs so that they can continue to manage funds as
users/maintenance committees;
*   setting up, where appropriate, of a maintenance fund by the communities; and
*   using of appropriate technologies (now tested in the field during SDF I) that will lead to reduced
operation and maintenance costs, making them more affordable.
b) Institutional sustainability of RSDF beyond the life of the Program is currently discussed by the
government and the Steering Committee. Exit/transformation strategies include variants with and without
Bank and donor financing and with and without being mainstreamed into government functions. Currently,
three possibilities are envisaged:
(i) Enhancing RSDF's role as a national level institution that finances projects initiated by grass roots,
community based organizations. RSDF could use public funds, as well as funds from international funding
agencies (EU, private investment funds, the World Bank).
(ii) Transforning RSDF into a center of excellence in CDD. RSDF staff and experienced consultants could
be engaged in three categories of TA: facilitation, appraisal and supervision activities for new projects,
poverty monitoring and evaluation, poverty alleviation measures.
(iii) Link the RSDF up closer with the decentralization program, possibly merging it with other agencies
that finance local activities.
- 29 -



It is important to note that internationally very few successful social funds have been closed down,
Governments finding them a useful tool complementing the regular top-down approaches.
At mid-term review the Government will present and discuss with the Bank and other stakeholders a
strategy for the future of RSDF.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
isk                     RiskRating;             Risk M itigAtion Meaisure
From Outputs to Objective
The Government is no longer committed        S          Continued dissemination of social capitzl
to social capital formation and shifts the             research including local research and RS:DF
emphasis towards simply improving                      evaluation studies and emphasis given to both
infrastructure and services.                           objectives in IEC activities which will target
more clearly other government agencies than
those targeted under SDF I.
Local authorities are not interested in      M         Promotion activities will be organized tco
establishing partnerships with CBOs and                sensitize local authorities, involving
NGOs.                                                   beneficiaries and local authorities from a [ready
completed sub-pro!wcts
Danger of the project being captured by      S         The RSDF will increase its appraisal, as well as
local interest groups.                                 monitoring and evaluation of the role played by
local interest groups in sub-project identification
and implementation. IEC activities will De
guided towards clarifying the relevant role of
different actors, and "remedial" facilitation will
be made available to PMCs that are showing
signs of lower levels of community engagement.
Sub-projects services are not sustained      S          See sustainability section above.
leading to a reversal in social capital built.
From Components to Outputs
Counterpart funds are not available in       S          The experience gained in SDF I has led to the
time.                                                  minimization of this problem, since RS)F is
considered as one of the most successful
extemally funded program. MPF representatives
will be invited to the inauguration ceremonies of
RSDF financed sub-projects and Steering
Committee members will be more active in
making sure that the State Budget provides
sufficient funds.
RSDF is not capable to function as an        M          The life of the RSDF was extended by ari
autonomous institution and to retain/hire               amendment of Law 129/1998 and the Steering
highly qualified staff.                                 Committee will continue to offer competitive
salaries to RSDF staff.
Contractors are not able to provide          M          RSDF will procure standard modules fcr the
designs for works using least cost,                     most frequently used designs and will give them
appropriate technologies.                              to conmnunities.
Poor and disadvantaged groups are            M          Through promotion and networking people will
- 30 -



passive and do not get involved in solving           see that similar communities have improved
their problems.                                      their infrastructure or services by becoming
active in managing their own development.
Facilitators and promoters (including PMC
members from successful PMCs) will assist
communities to get organized, identify and
prioritize demands and prepare sub-projects.
Implementation of sub-projects is          M         Use of remedial facilitation.
hampered by conflicts in communities.
Other projects operating in the same areas  H        The Government and the Bank will coordinate
do not require community organization                projects, making sure that the RSDF approach
and contributions.                                   is not hampered by other approaches.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
In most countries supporting empowerment of poor communities is controversial, however this is likely to
be minimal iTi the case of Romania due to the perceived success of SDF I.
The inclusion of youth at risk into the category of disadvantaged groups may cause controversy as relates
to ethnic minorities.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
The following are conditions for project effectiveness:
* The Subsidiary Agreement between the RSDF and the Government has been signed.
*   The Steering Committee has selected a region and a host institution for the pilot RSDF local unit,
acceptable to the Bank.
*  The Operational Manual, including the standard Grant Agreement and the various guidelines, has been
amended to reflect changes agreed during negotiations.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement:
No withdrawals shall be made for any category until the Front End Fee of 1 percent of the loan has been
paid by the Borrower to the Bank.
For Sub-project Grants no disbursement should be made unless a Grant Agreement has been concluded
between RSDF and the grant recipient in accordance with the Operational Manual.
Dated Covenants:
*   Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation unit within RSDF structure with the resources, staff and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, by September 1, 2002.
*   Establishment of an RSDF regional branch in the region selected upon agreement with the Bank, by
September 1, 2002.
- 31 -



*   In preparation of the mid-term review RSDF will submit a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities to the Bank no later than February 28, 2004 and conduct a
mid-term review with the Bank no later than April 30, 2004; thereafter, RSDF will take all measures
required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the
objectives based on the conclusions and recommendations of the report and the Bank view on the
matter.
*   Contracting auditors for year 2002 audit by November 30, 2002.
*   Preparation, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and submission to the Bank no later
than six months after the closing date of a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the
objectives of the Project and the Program.
*   Provision of evidence satisfactory to the Bank that an updated management information system has
become operational and it has included a revised set of qualitative and quantitative indicators, by April
30, 2002.
Ongoing:
*   RSDF annual work program for the project will be submitted for Bank review and concurrence by
March 31 in each year.
*   RSDF semi-annual reports on progress of project implementation based on indicators set forth in the
Program will be submitted to the Borrower and the Bank, not later than 45 days after the end of each
second and fourth calendar quarter, commencing on August 5 , 2002.
-   RSDF will be maintained with an organizational and management structure, staffing and resources
adequate to enable RSDF to effectively implement the Project and acceptable to the Bank.
-   Prior Bank approval will be obtained for any changes in the personnel appointed for the positions of the
RSDF executive director, financial manager, accountant and procurement and management information
system specialist and the terms of their employment.
?   The RSDF Steering Committee will be maintained with a composition and terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
*  RSDF will ensure that sub-projects will be selected, approved, carried out and evaluated in accordance
with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual and will provide financing on the
basis of a standard Grant Agreement (agreed upon by the Bank) concluded between RSDF and each
recipient.
e   Prior Bank approval will be obtained for any amendments to the Operational Manual, including the
standard Grant Agreement.
*   Prior Bank approval will be obtained for the first three sub-projects from the category of "Follow-up
activities".
*  Prior Bank approval will be obtained for the first three contracts for services under sub-projects.
*   Prior Bank approval will be obtained for the contracts for audit services.
*   RSDF will submit quarterly PMRs starting with May 15, 2002.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
K 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
- 32 -



[1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Ana Maria Sandi                  Annette Dixon                     Andrew N. Vorkink
Team Leader                      Sector Director                   Country Director
- 33 -






Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ROMANIA: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND II (PHASE II APL)
More informnation on Logframes
Sectr-reatedCAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Bettr aces toopportunity   Poverty rate.          Government economic and    Poverty alleviafion is a key
(viapromtionof social  Level of social capital.   social statistics and reports.   objective of the Governrnent.
capital through                                                                 Development agenda includes
community-based                                                                 strengthening social cohesion.
development, rural
development and economic
and social equity for women).
Institution building to   Level of accountability of  Bank sector studies.      Decentralized governmental
strengthen the rule of law (via local authorities.                              structures use consultations
decentralization of                                                             and participatory approaches.
government and local capacity
building).
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program lndicators- Program reports:           (from Purpose to Goal)
Contribute to poverty      Level of satisfaction of  Beneficiary Assessments.   Government applies SDF
alleviation through       beneficiaries with                                    principles and approach to
community driven          community-level project                               other local level development
development (CDD) and     outcomes.                                             efforts.
enhanced social capital.
Extent of transparency and    Studies on Local Authorities.
accountability within the local
decision making process of
participating communities
Level of social capital and
civic engagement in
communities.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
Improve livelihood of project  80% level of satisfaction  Beneficiary Assessment  The Government will
Beneficiaries in poor rural    among project beneficiaries.  RSDF reports       continue to apply SDF
communities and from                                 Supervision missions reports  principle and approach to
disadvantaged groups.                                                           local level development
efforts.
Promote social capital    Level of trust within and
enhancement and civic     outside communities is
engagement among          increased.
Beneficiaries.
300 CBOs active.
-34 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. I . 1. Poor rural       A. 1. 1. More than 250 small  Supervision mission reports   Poor and disadvantaged
communities have access to  infrastructure sub-projects    and Implementation     people are actively involved in
improved infrastructure.   financed in poor rural     Completion Report.          solving their problems.
communities.               RSDF reports (semiannual).  Local authorities are willing
Survey reports on awareness  to establish partnersbips with
among target groups (baseline CBOs and NGOs.
and periodic updates).
A. 1.2. Disadvantaged groups  A. 1.2. More than 60
have access to improved    community-based social
community-based social     services established.
services.
A. .13. Improved opportunities A. 1.3. More than 75 income
for income generation and    generating activities created
employment among target    in poor rural communities.
population.
A. 1.4. Improved           A. 1.4. More than 25
environmental situation in    sub-projects fixed aind ,'r
small poor villages and    innovative sub-projecis
corrected potential problems  implemented.
of SDF I sub-projects.
A.2. Increased local capacity  A.2. More than 1/3 of   As evidenced by the
for raising and managing   surveyed beneficiary        post-implementation
resources to solve priority  communities are mobilizing   sustainability study.
problems.                  resources other than SDF
funds.
A.3. Improved situation of    A.3. 10% of sub-projects
poor women (heads of large   address poor women's issues.
families, elderly widows with
no family support, women
victims of violence,
unemployed women).
B. I. Increased awareness  B. I. Evidence of active
among stakeholders of: (i)    participatory involvement of
participatory and inclusive    poor people in local
approaches to local        development.
development; and (ii) the
importance of sanitation and
environmental issues for
poverty reduction.
B.2. Linkages and          B.2. About 300 sub-projects
partnerships established at   involving more than one
local level among          stakeholder group.
communities, NGOs, local
authorities and private sector.
B.3. CDD better reflected in   B.3. Evidence of increased use
development and anti-poverty of CDD approaches.
strategies and programs.
C. 1. RSDF is operating in a   C. 1. Cost/effectiveness of
- 35 -



cost-effective manner. -IFT77-....
higher than cost-effectiveness
of activities financed from
other sources.
C.2. RSDF is operating as a    C.2. MIS is operational and
learning institution.           providing useful data;
evaluations are carried out,
disseminated;a4nad    s  . ,
.  -  .....  imp rovee.3            -
- 36 -



Project Components I         Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-com ponents:             component)                                                Outputs)
A. RSDF sub-projects.        A. $25.86 million               * Progress reports.          * Timely availability of
A.l1. Financing grants for                                   *  Disbursement reports        counterpart furnds.
sub-projects prepared by                                       (quarterly).               * The life of the R.SDF
recipients in poor rural                                     *  Audit reports (annual).     will be extended by
communities and                                                                             amending Law
disadvantaged groups:                                                                        129/06.30.1998.
* A. I. 1. small rural                                                                 * The RSDF will continue
infrastructure                                                                         to operate as an
(rehabilitate, upgrade,                                                                autonomous agency,
build or equip);                                                                       able to retain/hire highly
* A. 1.2. community-based                                                                 qualified staff.
social services;                                                                    * Designs for works use
* A. 1.3. income                                                                          least cost, appr.priate
generating activities                                                                  technologies
* A. 1.4. follow-up
activities
A.2. Building communitv
capacilt Otbrough preparation,
facilitation, appraisal,
supervision of sub-projects
and provision of training.
B. Knowledge sharing and    B. $0.26 million
partnership building.
C. Institutional strengthening: C. $2.54 million
* C. 1. RSDF institutional
support;
* C.2. Project monitoring
and evaluation.
- 37 -



Addendum to Annex I
Trigger Indicators Performance under Phase I
Since the RSDF is a new institution with an innovative approach, the Government requested an APL with
two phases. According to the APL concept, financing of the second phase has to be determined based on an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the first phase. Five key actions were proposed as triggers for proceeding
to the APL 2 as outlined in the tables below. The evaluation of the trigger indicators has been carried out
by two independent consultants and a Joint Review Meeting of the GOR and the Bank team in December
2000. Also, during regular supervision missions, a learning by doing approach has been encouraged,
allowing for adjustments and identification of risks; this is actually consistent with the APL concept and
should enhance the effectiveness of project implementation.
The table below provides the status of the project triggers, an assessment of their performance, including
recommendations and corrective actions. In general, it is felt that the key characteristics underpinning the
strategy of the program are sound and warrant its expansion. The program also introduces important new
elements related to: (i) networking and experience sharing activities across communities; (ii) refining
eligibility criteria; (iii) increasing the number and scope of the community sub-projects; (iV) conducting
monitoring and evaluation activities at RSDF level and disseminating results to governmental institutions
a-nd to the public.
1. Well functioning RSDF      RSDF organization:              * Decentralization measures are
institution. Experience from Phase  * Steering Committee: 9      necessary in order to shorten
I must demonstrate that the RSDF  members                        the period between
staff and administrative        * Executive Management: 2        sub-project submission and
arrangements permit effective and  persons                       grants approval;
timely implementation of the    * FuPl me staff 24persons     * Administrative procedures
Project.                      The RSDF  is adequately staffed    need to counteract
and has been able to launch the   unnecessary bureaucratic
program, establish administrative  requirements.
and financial procedures and
sub-project monitoring and
evaluation systems. The
sub-project cycle described in the
social fund operational manual has
been tested and implemented. The
progress made and achievements
of the RSDF compare favorably
with many other social finds and
exceed the initial accomplishments
of most.
2. Poor rural communities and    * 25facilitators;            * Selection, training and
disadvantaged groups manifest    * 77 appraisers and supervisors  coordination of additional
interest, organize and participate  * 1,747applications received  facilitators, appraisers and
in Project activities. Experience    * 386 rural communities are  supervisors;
from Phase I must demonstrate      mplemennng sub-projects    * Training for post-submission
Effective promotion and
- 38 -



that an effective promotion and                                  a i '  ,,,nd post-appraisal
communication campaign is in    undertaken and facilitators worked  facilitation;
place, and that the Project   on community organization and   * RSDF decentralization under
facilitates community organization development. The presence of  SDF II is expected to have a
and development; RSDF  should    promoters and facilitators in poor  positive impact on retaining
have available: (i) facilitators    prral comomunities is highly  its facilitators, appraisers ancl
trained in commuunity development; appreciated. People from      supervisors, who are offered
(ii) appraisers trained in field  c nmuities that have already I    obsby other institutions
Appraisa;hand                                 have suprvisor
appraisal; and (iii) supervisors   implemented sub-projects are also  replicating the SDF
with capacity to train members of ready to act as promoters of the  approach;
Project Management Committees  project.* Informal promotion and
(PMC). As a result of the RSDF,  Appraisers are skilled in formative  facilitation will be
about 1,000 sub-projects      field appraisal.                   encouraged under SDF II.
applications should be received    Supervisors play an important role
and implementation should occur
inabout 335 rural communities   
but also n advsing the
communities during sub-project
implementation.      -
3. Sub-projects are financed and  0 264 Bank-financed grants -   Poverty eiigibliiiy criteria
implemented. Experience from the Small rural infrastructure: 167  have been refined;
first phase must demonstrate that  126 rural roads            * Maintenance Handbooks will
grants were made to at least 200          ;                       e deeloed under SDF II.
ank financed projects of whic
about 60 were completed.      5 community centers
2 other works
Social Services: 41
17 day care centers
5 home care centers
5 information and counseling
8child care centers
2 week-time shelters
I night shelter
Income generating activities: 56
45 processing raw materials
6 handicrafts
0 .-;                :- ~~~~~~3,solart_                  ,        -        
2 commuty bakenes
* 82 completed sub-projects
Communities have established
Maintenance committees to ensure
sustainability of sub-projects; new
sources for income generation and
emplovment have been created.
$-~~~~~~~~~~~~" . 'and.a                          J- .   ert- :....... ional Manual And
4. Agreed monitoring and        0 A monitoring and evaluation    * Operational Manual and
- 39 -



beneficiary assessment are        system has been developed     procedures have been
carried out. The monitoring and   and implemented. The          adjusted.
assessments will provide          Management Information
information on Project outcomes in    System (MIS) is providing  * A network-based monitoring
terms of quantitative and        infonnation in terms of        system will be developed to
qualitative indicators, and the   quantitative and qualitative  reflect RSDF upcoming
beneficiaries' perception of its  indicators.                   decentralization.
effectiveness. These activities are    * A Beneficiary Assessment
to be carried out before the fist  was carried out by an
joint review of Project          independent organization in
imnplementation in mid-November   October- November, 2000.
2000*. RSDF shall prepare, under  The methodology and quality
terms of reference satisfactory to  of the assessment were sound
the Bank, a report integrating the  and responded well to the
results of these monitoring and   agreed terms of reference and
assessment activities during the  the requirements of the RSDF
preceding period, and furnish this  program. The assessment
report to the Bank no later than  confirmed a high level of
September 15, 2000**.             participation by beneficiaries
and broad-based sippo.i for
the social hfnd program at the
village level.
* The RSDF prepared and
* rescheduled to December 15,     submitted to the Bank a fully
2000 (by Amendment to the Loan    satisfactory Monitoring and
Agreement)                        Evaluation report, as
** rescheduled to November 15,   requested.
2001 (by Amendment to the Loan
Agreement)
5. At least 60 percent of the A-PL   0 65 percent of APL Ifunds    * CEB funds are currently
I funds allocated to sub-projects  allocated to sub-projects are  being allocated and will
are disbursed.                    disbursed.                    ensure continuity in financing
new sub-projects until SDF H
All Bank funds have been          effectiveness.
allocated ($9.20 million).
CEB funds were available with
one year and a half delay.
-40 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ROMANIA: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND II (PHASE II APL)
By Component:
Project Component I - US$25.86 million
RSDF Sub-Projects
This component will have two sub-components: Sub- Project Grants and Building Community Capacity.
1.1. Sub-Proiect Grants
Under this sub- component more than 2,200 sub-project applications are expected to be received from
communities and disadvantaged groups. Of these proposals, about 540 sub-projects are expected to be
awarded grants to be implemented by the recipients, and to be supervised by RSDF. The sub-projects are
of four categories:
1.1.1. small rural infrastructure (about 330 sub-projects);
1.1.2. community-based social services (about 80 sub-projects);
1.1.3. income generating activities (about 100 sub-projects);
1.1.4. follow-up activities (about 0 0sub-projects).
These estimates are based on the SDF I experience and on the objective to increase the scope and coverage
of sub-projects.
Sub-projects approved under SDF I after January 1, 2001, will be eligible for continuing financing under
SDF II.
1. 1. 1. The small-scale infrastructure category is targeted at poor rural communities and will be continued
along the lines of SDF I. The only modification is for SDF II to encourage the development and use of
standard design modules.
The sub-project menu includes small rehabilitation/repair, upgrading, and construction, as well as the
provision of related services (e.g., preparation of designs) and small quantities of equipment for: (i) social
infrastructure (such as local water supply/piping, artesian wells, sewerage systems, community centers; and
(ii) economic infrastructure (such as rural roads, bridges).
A detailed description of this category is provided in the table below.
Objectives     * Increasing the access of poor rural communities to markets, education, health
services, improving the hygiene conditions related to safe drinking water; providing
opportunities for a better social life within the rural communities.
* Strengthening the capacity of poor rural communities to function in a market oriented
environment.
Grant Ceiling   * $75,000.
* An average size of sub- projects grants of $60,000 is expected.
Beneficiaries   A minimum contribution of 10 percent of the sub-project grant is expected from
Contribution   recipients (cash or in kind, such as: materials, labor, feasibility studies, equipment).
Executing Agent The Project Management Committee
-41 -



Examples of    * Rehabilitation, upgrading or construction of community small-scale: piped water
Sub-Projects      system, water storage tanks, pumping station, treatment units.
* Rehabilitation or construction of hand dug wells, drilled wells, drilled and dug wells,
small scale sewage systems, including low technology treatment units.
* Rehabilitation or refurbishment of community centers.
* Rehabilitation, upgrading or construction of earth-surface or gravel-surface rural
roads.
* Road surface covering (only with gravel).
* Rehabilitation or construction of rural bridges, culverts, drainage ditches.
Negative List   * Household connection to infrastructure.
* Purchase or lease of land.
* Rehabilitation or construction on private land.
* Recurrent and operating costs.
* Individual latrines.
* Rehabilitation or construction of sewage systems where there is not a sufficient
supply of household water.
Development of Standard Design Modules
Based on the SDF I experienee, stan&ird design nmodules will be prepared under SDF II aiming at
simplifying the design stage of small infrastructure sub-projects. In most of the RSDF sub-project menu
components, standard modules (in terms of design, technical specifications and cost per unit) can be used.
The approach will be to divide the project into standard modules (to the extent possible), and adapt them to
site-specific conditions, thereby significantly reducing the cost of design work. Certain menu components
are more suited to be standardized by means of modules than other ones. For example, water supply
systems can be almost fully covered by standard modules, whereas road projects, especially for roads
through difficult terrain, will continue to have a substantial amount of purposely designed parts with
additional standard components.
Standard modules will be procured by the RSDF Infrastructure Department on the basis of existing
(national) standard specifications, as far as these are appropriate for the RSDF's purposes and
beneficiaries. Specialized guidelines will be produced to accompany the standard modules.
1.1.2. The community-based social services category of sub-projects will continue to address
disadvantaged groups as in SDF I, expanding the eligible beneficiaries to include youth at risk. For this
sub- category, prevention and awareness raising sub-projects will be favored. A detailed description of this
category is provided in the table below.
Objectives    * Increasing the access of the targeted disadvantaged groups including youth at risk to
services that respond to their needs.
* Strengthen capacity of NGOs and Local Authorities to respond to the evolving needs
of the disadvantaged groups, including youth at risk.
Grant Ceiling  * $20,000.
* An average size of sub-project grants of $17,500 is expected.
Beneficiaries   The applicant should make evidence of commitment and interest through cash or in-kind
Contribution   contribution of 5 percent of the sub-project grant; the contribution should come from the
N_GO, the community or any other partner in the project.
-42 -



Executing Agent Specialized NGO in partnership with local authorities
Examples of      * Day care centers (minimum 20 beneficiaries)
Sub-Projects     * Family planning (minimum 50 beneficiaries)
* Projects for disadvantaged elderly (minimum 30 beneficiaries)
* Shelters (minimum 15 beneficiaries)
* Increasing the access of the poor to existent entitlements (minimum 200
beneficiaries)
* Clubs for youth at risk (minimum 100 beneficiaries)
* Probation centers for young delinquents (minimum 50 beneficiaries)
Not to limit the creativity of organizations trying to meet the needs of their beneficiaries, other projects that
fall into the RSDF principles can be discussed on a case by case basis.
1.1.3. The income generating activities category of sub-projects is targeted, as in SDF I, at poor rural
communities.
The sub-project will be proposed by a productive group (minimnum 10 persons). After grant approval, thl
productive group has to register as a consumption cooperative, an agricultural company, an association 0o
a foundation in order to manage the grant. During its irnplementation and afterwards the sub-project has to)
produce benefits tor a iarge number of beneficiaries including employees, local suppiiers, customers, etc. -,
detailed description of this category is provided in the table below.
Objectives         *Strengthening capacity of rural productive community-based groups through:
technical assistance, institutional support, business skills training, network
building and strengthening.
* Increasing local employment opportunities and additional income sources for
=________________  direct and indirect beneficiaries.
Grant Ceiling      *$20,000.
Beneficiaries      A minimum contribution of 15 percent of the sub-project grant from the productive
Contribution       group.
Executing Agent    A consumption cooperative, agricultural company, association or foundation.
Examples of        * Processing and marketing milk, wood, wool, fruit, vegetables.
Sub-Projects       * Producing and marketing handicrafts.
* Rehabilitation of rural markets and storage facilities.
* Solar tents, greenhouses.
_  Conmmunity bakeries.
Eligible Applicants   Community-based productive group from villages meeting the poverty criteria.
1. 1.4. The Follow-up activities will provide funds for: (i) fixing small problems that may appear in
sub-projects already financed by the RSDF, within the ceiling of $10,000 per grant, on a matching basis,
according to the Operational Manual conditions; and (ii) second grant for an innovative sub-project (e.g.
waste collection and disposal activities) in communities that have already successfully completed a
sub-project, within the ceiling of $45,000 per grant. A detailed description of this category is provided in
the table below.
- 43 -



Objectives         * Overcome unforeseen technical and/or other problems in already completed
sub-projects.
* Strengthen and reward communities by providing a second grant for an
innovative sub-project.
Grant Ceiling      (i) $10,000 for fixing small problems in all types of sub-projects already financed
by RSDF:
(ii) $45,000 for a second grant for an innovative sub-project.
Beneficiaries      (i) Grants for fixing small problems will be awarded on a matching basis.
Contribution       (ii) A minimum contribution of 5 percent of the sub-project grant is expected from
recipients for innovative sub-projects.
Executing Agent     LAs in partnership with CBOs and NGOs.
Examples of        i) Fixing small problems in all types of sub-projects already financed by RSDF:
Sub-Projects       * unforeseen technical deficiencies;
* unforeseen technical omissions;
* damages resulted from incomplete/inadequate design or force majeure.
ii) Second grant for an innovative sub-project:
* appropriate, small scale rural garbage disposal pits of various capacities,
including affiliated works.
Negative List      0 Purchase or lease of land.
* Rehabilitation or construction of waste facilities on private land.
* Recurrent and operation costs.
*Individual request for waste or other facility.
Eligible Applicants    CBOs, NGOs, implementing RSDF funded sub-projects.
EAs which have successfully completed an RSDF funded sub-project in
partnership with Local Authorities.
Eligibility Criteria (i) For fixing small problems in all types of sub-projects already financed by RSDF:
sub-projects which have already been financed by RSDF and encounter
unforeseen problems preventing the community to complete and/or benefit from
the sub-project; the grant would not exceed the ceiling of $10,000 and will be
awarded on a matching basis.
(ii) Second grant for an innovative sub-project:
communities would be entitled to get a second grant, upon successful completion
of the first sub-project;
local authorities must give evidence of supporting and enabling the community to
implement the RSDF project;
*local authorities must make available the land of a suitable size and location, if
needed;
the applicability of one of the standard modules (e.g. for a garbage disposal
facility) of the RSDF menu must be confirmed by a feasibility study;
local authorities and beneficiary community must jointly guarantee to maintain
basic environmental and public hygiene standards at and around facilities such as
the waste disposal pit.
Application Package (i) For fixing small problems in all types of sub-projects already financed by RSDF:
Special application form.
Technical details.
* Estimated costs, including matching funds available.
-44 -



(ii) For innovative sub-projects:
* Official Application Form (adequate presentation).
* Required Technical documents (completed according to a "Check List").
* Required Legal documents (completed according to a "Check List").
Sub-Project Cycle
The criteria for approval of sub-projects and the procedures to be followed for targeting, facilitation, initial
screening, appraisal, approval, implementation and supervision of sub-projects are detailed in the
Operational Manual. The sub-project cycle includes the following sequence of activities.
Facilitation
Rural communities from the poorest counties will benefit from a special type of IEC activities, performed
by facilitators. The role of a facilitator would be to coach and enable a community to get organized, to be
able to define and prioritize demands in a participatory way and to prepare sub-projects.
identification and Preparation
Sub-project generation will be demand-driven and participatory as in SDF i. In the case of poor rural
communities, their members are expected to decide eventually with the assistance of facilitators, in a
participatory manner, the needs they want to address. Participation of LAs representatives and women's
involvement in the process will be monitored. The RSDF will require proof that the sub-project was
originated in a participatory manner (e.g. minutes from the community meeting signed by participants,
including representatives of the LA). The community must designate an EA. The EA will be an elected
PMC for non- social services sub-projects, which is registered at the mayor's office. Women's
representation in the PMC will be emphasized. The RSDF would encourage the establishment of
partnerships between communities, NGOs and LAs. In the case of disadvantaged groups, the sub-project
will be prepared by an NGO, in consultation with potential recipients and in partnership with LAs.
The proposals for sub-projects will go through a selection process. The RSDF will publicly announce
deadlines for applications, as well as the tranches of available funds. Upon registration of an application,
the RSDF will pre-screen the proposal to ensure conformity with the following eligibility criteria:
*   poverty level of the comrnunity and/or disadvantaged status of the group;
*   type of intervention and amount requested;
*   proof of community participation in needs identification; and
*   complete application package.
RSDF will consider a community to be eligible from a poverty standpoint if it meets at least three of the
eight criteria specified under section C.3.
If the proposal does not meet the eligibility criteria, it can be rejected or it can be sent back with
recommendations for improvement. Accepted applications will be assigned to a teamn of 2-3 appraisers.
Appraisal and Approval
All accepted applications will be subject to a Desk Appraisal. The criteria and weights for rating
sub-projects are detailed in the Operational Manual. Criteria are both quantitative and qualitative (technical
- 45 -



quality, likelihood of sustainability and level social capital). The qualitative indicators will continue to be
monitored throughout the project cycle (see description of MIS below). Proposals that fail to meet a
qualification threshold will not be accepted. The proposals, which pass the threshold, will be subject to a
Field Appraisal which will check the conformity of the written documents with reality. Appraisers will offer
assistance to communities and disadvantaged groups whose applications merit consideration but need to be
improved to meet the standards of RSDF. If a sub-project is rated "unsatisfactory" or less on the social
capital criteria, remedial facilitation can be used (see 1.2.1.). Sub-projects will be ranked according to the
scores received during appraisal. A final ranking of the sub-projects, based upon appraisal reports, will be
made by the Technical Department of the RSDF and recommendations for approval will be submitted to
the Steering Committee with the scores and risk ratings. The number of sub-projects approved would be
limited by the funds available for a particular round of competition. Applications which meet the appraisal
qualification threshold, but which were not considered for financing due to funding limits, will be given
another opportunity to compete for RSDF funding in subsequent rounds of competition.
Contracting
For approved sub-projects, a Grant Agreement will be signed between the RSDF, and the EA, on behalf of
the recipients. The Grant Agreement will include:
3   grant amount;
*   scope and description of the sub-project;
*   implementation period;
* monitoring activities;
* community's contribution and participation;
*   agreements with local authorities;
*  procurement procedures (as agreed with the Bank);
*   disbursement conditions;
a   financial reporting requirements;
*  bookkeeping and accounting standards/requirements; and
*   compliance with environmental norms.
Implementation, Procurement, Disbursement
The EAs will vary depending on the category of sub-project. In the case of small infrastructure
sub-projects, the EA will be the PMC, that may contract the works entirely, or in part (with the community
executing the other parts). Community based social services sub-projects will be implemented by NGOs. In
the case of the income generating activities, as well as in the case of follow-up activities, the EA will be the
PMC. In some follow-up activities the EA could be a LA in partnership with a CBO or an NGO. The
grant recipients manage funding and procurement in accordance with the procedures for procurement
stipulated in the Grant Agreement. As in SDF I, the RSDF will continue to assign supervisors during SDF
II to visit sub-projects to monitor sub-project quality and progress.
Disbursement of grants for sub-projects will be made in tranches, as in SDF 1. Upon approval of the Grant
Agreement, an advance of a maximum amount of 40 percent will be disbursed. Subsequent disbursements
would be made against completion of previously agreed and defined parts of the works or of certain
activities, as certified by RSDF supervisors.
Completion of sub-projects will be judged from three points of view: (i) all agreed activities are
successfully completed; (ii) all funds are accounted for; and (iii) legal documents are signed. Upon
-46 -



completion of the sub-project, a closing fonn will be prepared by RSDF attesting that the sub-project is
satisfactorily completed and that provisions are in place for future operation, maintenance and
sustainability of the sub-project. With this certification, ownership will be transferred to recipients.
1.2. Building Community Capacity
Under this sub-component, the project will support capacity building at community level through
preparation, facilitation, appraisal, supervision of sub-projects and provision of training for facilitators,
voluntary facilitators, appraisers, supervisors, EAs, etc.
1.2.1. Facilitation
Facilitation is a key element of the RSDF success. The facilitation process is the tool used for increasing
the access of poor rural communities from the poorest counties to RSDF funds. The facilitation efforts
focus on transfer to the communities of knowledge, abilities and information needed to stimulate the
involvement, participation and community organization. During SDF I, RSDF has worked on the
community facilitation contents and refined the facilitation guide. Based on this experience, facilitation by
RSDF recruited facilitators will continue, but voluntary facilitators will also be encouraged.
New types of facilitation under SDF II include post-ar,prasa' ,J post approval "remedial" facilitation for
communities that are identified through appraisal or supervision as having low levels of social capital. In
addition, the RSDF will expand the number of Roma and Hungarian speaking facilitators in accordance
with the recomnmendations of the study on targeting (Dancu, 2000).
1 2.2. Appraisal and Supervision
Sub-projects will be appraised as discussed above under sub-project cycle.
Sub-projects will continue to be supervised at critical stages of project implementation by RSDF recruited
supervisors. Under SDF II, the RSDF will refine the supervision and monitoring system in order to improve
the early identification of problems, and therefore to assure better quality and progress of sub-project
activities.
Specific steps are being taken: (i) the site technicians overseeing works have to produce weekly reports
submitted to RSDF supervisors; (ii) supervisors grouped by regions will be coordinated by a lead
supervisor.
In SDF II supervision will focus more on social aspects, e.g., whether women participate in the process,
whether the PMC is reporting to the community on a regular basis and is accountable etc.
1.2.3. EAs Training
Under SDF II, EAs will continue to receive: (i) initial training on accounting, procurement procedures,
implementation procedures and project management (before signing the Grant Agreements); and (ii)
training focused on managing on-going sub-projects with the participation of EAs, contractors and site
technicians.
The objectives of initial training are:
- 47 -



*   to get the members of EAs familiar with procedures;
*   to transfer knowledge and abilities to EAs in order to initiate and manage sub-project
implementation;
*   to assess the training needs of the beneficiaries for subsequent development of additional technical
assistance and support in implementation.
The objectives of training focused on managing on-going sub-projects are:
*   to transfer specific knowledge and abilities to EAs for easier sub-project implementation;
*   to respond to specific needs and requests from beneficiaries;
*   to facilitate experience sharing between communities.
Such training programs, guidelines and handbooks would continue to be improved and refined based on
participants feedback and identified needs.
Under SDF II, RSDF will expand the number Roma and Hungarian speaking appraisers and supervisors in
accordance with the recommendations of the study on targeting (Dancu, 2000).
Training for sub-project sustainability
The costs of training for: operation/maintenance, fund raising and community development (e.g.
preparation of community action plans) will be covered from the grant funds.
Project Component 2 - US$0.26 million
Knowledge Sharing and Partnership Building
While SDF I focused on the promotion of the concept of the Program, SDF II will focus more on IEC
activities to underscore the principles of community-driven development and clarify in more detail the
RSDF procedures.
The RSDF will provide clear and useful information about the Fund, its activities, principles and rules to
targeted beneficiaries; raise awareness and support for social capital development; stimulate local
initiatives; stimulate public interest for partnership building, participatory approaches and community
development. An IEC strategy will be developed including: radio programs, videos on successful local
initiatives, information materials (leaflets, posters a.s.o.), articles, caravans, special events (launching a
project in a poor community, closing ceremony), specific promotion and education activities etc.
Monitoring of the IEC strategy and its coordination with the other activities of the Fund will continue to be
followed-up by the specialized department of the RSDF.
Under this new component "Graduating" villages would be encouraged to network and get organized into a
coalition of "Graduating" villages to stimulate a more active civic engagement among beneficiaries. The
key linking element will be the common interest and a willingness to participate and share experience. For
example, in the case of IGAs, this linking element may be the same area of economic activity, in the case of
social services and infrastructure, the development of sustainability mechanisms.
The sub-projects provide real lessons for future initiatives, within and outside the RSDF. Therefore, under
SDF II, the CBOs, productive groups and NGOs would be encouraged to include dissemination and
promotion in their sub-project activities. To enable this, new eligible costs would be introduced allowing
CBOs, productive groups and NGOs to draw financial support for promotional, networking, dissemination
- 48 -



and partnership building activities.
A number of activities would be developed, to be managed by the RSDF itself, that will encourage
dissemination of sub-project benefits.
Some examples of basic activities include:
* facilitating the formation of links and associations between CBOs, productive groups, NGOs,
businesses with common interests, for example for IGA groups operating in the same sector;
* identification of best performing sub-projects and communities of particular interest to others
because of the creative or highly effective measures undertaken. These will provide the raw
material for the development of sub-project case studies and promotional materials, offering
opportunities for learning based on real community action;
*   encouraging networking between CBOs, productive groups and NGOs in the same geographical
area, especially those which belong to the same local government;
The RSDF is also expected to encourage promotional initiatives such as the preparation of a brief quarterly
RSDF newsletter highlighting best practice and success stories for distribution to interested parties. The
newsletter would provide a more accessible perspective on the Fund, at the same time making it more
visible-
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.54 million
Institutional Strengthening
This component will have two sub-components: RSDF Institutional Support and Monitoring and
Evaluation.
3.1. RSDF Institutional Support
This sub-component will continue the support initiated under the first phase of the program. The capacity
of the autonomous RSDF to manage resources will be further developed including RSDF decentralization.
The support to the RSDF will cover: (i) provision of training and technical assistance to enhance the
agency's operational capacity and improve internal procedures, and support to the overall management of
the project; (b) operational and administrative costs; (c) further procurement of office equipment for the
central office and for the decentralized regional branches.
Institutional changes to be considered during SDF 11 consist of the following:
3.1.1. Decentralization
RSDF will decentralize some of its activities through 2-3 regional branches. This arrangement is expected
to improve the responsiveness of the Fund to local requirements. A county would be selected to host a
"pilot regional office". RSDF's regional units' responsibilities would be gradually increased from promotion
and facilitation activities to appraisal and supervision of sub-projects.
RSDF's regional units could be hosted by other organizations that are prepared to promote and disseminate
information on the RSDF as part of their activities. This would allow the dissemination of the skills and
knowledge required to identify, facilitate and advise on suitable sub-project applications. More immediate
advantages include the wider regional coverage and lowering the pressure on the core team in the central
- 49 -



office.
3.1.2. Development of strategic management capacity within RSDF
Under SDF I1 it is expected that RSDFs place within the national poverty alleviation and rural
development policy be defined, as well as its contribution to the European integration. The RSDF Steering
Committee will have the policy making responsibility.
3.2. Project monitoring and evaluation
This new sub-component will consolidate and build on the monitoring and evaluation activities already
carried out under SDF I. There are two main sets of activities:
Monitoring activities will include:
continued support for the MIS and adding indicators related to quality of works and services,
sustainability and social capital;
support for a small M&E unit with RSDF that would analyze the intenal document4 and commission
studies; financial audits.
Evaluuticzi ativiti : wifl include:
coni,tussioning a series of impact evaluations with a special emphasis on buildig linkages with other
Romanian institutions engaged in poverty reduction activities.
3.2.1. Monitorin
The MIS system was established under SDF I and indicators are collected and disseminated. Due to the
start-up nature of SDF I most of the indicators were of an input, process and quantitative output nature
(see Annex 12 for results under of SDF I). The current indicators can be grouped as follws:
sub-project cycle:
* number of communities facilitated (by county and by RSDF or non-RSDF facilitators)
* number of sub-projects applications received (by county and type of sub-project)
*  number of sub-project applications received from facilitated communities
* number of eligible/screened sub-project applications (by county and type of sub-projects)
*   share of eligible/screened sub-projects compared to received sub-project applications (by county
and type of sub-projects)
*   number of projects desk-appraised (by county and type of sub-projects)
* number of projects field appraised (by county and type of sub-projects)
*   share of desk and field appraised sub-projects compared to received sub-project applications (by
county and type of sub-projects)
*   approved sub-projects (by county and type of sub-projects)
*   share of approved sub-projects compared to received sub-project applications and compared to
number field appraised (by county and type of sub-projects)
*   number of projects with first disbursement (by county and type of sub-projects and as share of
number of projects approved)
*   number of projects with second disbursement (by county and type of sub-projects and as share of
number of projects approved)
*   number of projects with third disbursement (by county and type of sub-projects and as share of
number of projects approved)
- 50 -



*   number of physically complete projects (by county and type of sub-projects and as share of number
of projects approved)
* number of projects financially completed (by county and type of sub-projects and as share of
number of projects approved)
* number of projects with post-implementation sustainability assessments (1 year after completion)
(by county and type of sub-projects and as share of number of projects approved)
* list of projects with delays of more than 60 days compared to plan, with reasons for delay
* list of projects stalled or in suspension with reasons for stalling or suspension
*   number of projects canceled and reasons for cancellation (by county and type of sub-projects and
as share of number of projects approved).
process indicators:
* average time elapsed from sub-project submission to desk appraisal, field appraisal, approval (by
type of sub-projects) and list of projects in top 10% of distribution (most delayed);
* average time elapsed from approval to first disbursement (by type of sub-projects) and list of
projects in top 10% of distribution (most delayed);
* average time elapsed from justification of payment to payment made (by type of sub-projects ancl
tranche) and list of projects in top 10% of distribution (most delayed).
* number of beneficiaries (direct and indirect, by type of sub-prujects, by gender);
* number of jobs created in income generating sub-projects;
* cost per beneficiary and per job created;
o community-contribution by type of sub-projects (total and as share);
- number of CBOs created;
* number of women beneficiaries.
outputs indicators:
l length of roads rehabilitated;
* number of water supply systems rehabilitated;
- number of projects initiated by CBOs on their own, after "graduation" from RSDF;
* number of CBOs still active in 2 years after "graduation" from RSDF by the amount of post-RSI)F
investment.
In addition, the MIS will include qualitative indicators for assessing: the quality of infrastructure and
services; sustainability; and social capital. A simple scoring of highly satisfactory, satisfactory,
unsatisfactory and highly unsatisfactory will be used and will be tracked all through the project cycle
(appraisal, supervision and post-completion sustainability). In addition, the RSDF is considering including
a risk rating for the same three aspects. The system will automatically "flag" projects that: (i) score
unsatisfactory or highly unsatisfactory on social capital (since this is a leading indicator for the two other
aspects); (ii) show a deterioration in scoring during implementation and post-implementation; (iii) score
highly unsatisfactory on any aspect. This will trigger remedial facilitation and/or additional technical
assistance to communities as appropriate. Quarterly reports will be produced showing the distribution of
sub-projects across the different scores as well as changes in scores (trends) since previous quarter.
The monitoring and evaluation unit will make better use of the large amount of data on poor
communities, needs and priorities and changes in social capital available in the sub-projects documentation
or with facilitators, appraisers and supervisors. This data cannot be captured by the MIS, but is very
important both for the management of the RSDF, as well as for broader poverty reduction policies and
- 51 -



strategies. In addition, small studies or reviews of e.g. why one village seems to do much better than other,
could significantly improve the management of the RSDF and may help shed light on broader issues of
poverty reduction. To this end a small unit (2-3 persons) will be established to carry out such studies and
coordinate the commissioning of the evaluation studies.
The financial audit reports are discussed in the financial management sections.
3.2.2 Evaluation
It is important for RSDF to consider the national and European policies for poverty alleviation and rural
development in defining its operational strategy in the future. This allows RSDF to contribute effectively to
the development of other initiatives. RSDF should share its findings with all interested parties, such as the
recently set up Anti-Poverty and Social Inclusion Promotion Commission. To this end a series of impact
evaluation studies will be commissioned:
Beneficiary Assessment (including new baseline)
The Beneficiary Assessment concluded under SDF I has greatly helped in improving operations of
SDF I and guiding SDF II (see section on lessons learned). Under SDF II an updated baseline
study would be undertaken and a staged Beneficiary Assessment carried out before closing of the
project. The objectives are to measure changes in social iapilal, .;.aludii.` trust indicators within
and outside beneficiary groups, quality of services and infrastructure supported and perceptions of
changes in livelihood - as far as possible this will be coordinated with the Rural Development
Program to gain comparators with similar types of sub-projects but with different implementation
arrangements.
Institutional impact assessment
This would include an assessment of the project impact on a number of stakeholders: local
authorities (including county- level), contractors (both design and implementation) and NGOs. As
far as possible comparator projects would be identified.
Survey-based impact assessment
Quantitative econometric estimates of benefits in terms of livelihood, access to services, social
capital etc. will be assessed by adding questions as well as over-sampling beneficiary and
comparator communities to an already existing household survey. The methodology will be based
on the methodology developed under the Social Funds 2000 six-country comparative study (see
social funds web-site) and the social capital assessment tool (see
http://www.worldbank.org/poverty/scapital/library/surveys.htm). The results will be available for
the mid-term review at which point it will be decided whether to add another assessment at the end
of the project.
Quality and sustainability evaluations
Ex-post technical "audits" of sustainability of services and infrastructure and smaller studies
reviewing and summarizing the findings of the post-implementation sustainability assessments of
sub-projects.
Other smaller evaluation studies
To be identified and agreed with the Bank based on implementation experience.
- 52 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ROMANIA: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND It (PHASE 11 APL)
RSDF Sub- Projects                                                22.70           3.16           25.86
Knowledge Sharing and Partnership Building                         0.26           0.00            0.26
Institutional Strengthening                                        2.32           0.22            2.54
Total Baseline Cost                                               25.28           3.38           28.66
Physical Contingencies                                            0.00           0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                                               0.00           0.00            0.00
Total Project Costs                   25.28           3.38          28.66
Front-end fee                         0.00           0.00
Total Financing  Required                  25.28            3.38          28.66
Goods                                                       |        f.07            2.90            2.97
Works                                                               20.06            0.07          20.13
Services                                                             4.54            0.29            4.83
ITraining                                                            0.60             0.13   _       0.73
Z                            ~~~~~~~~~~Total Project Costs'  25.27          3.39          28.66
Front-end fee                         0.00           0.00
Total Financing Required,        25.27             3.39   _      28.66
The Front end fee will not be paid out of the loan proceeds. The Borrower will pay it upfront.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 415 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 24.51 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing raTio is 81.6% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 53 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
ROMANIA: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND 11 (PHASE 11 APL)
As is the case with other social funds, the demand-driven character of sub-projects precludes the possibility
of undertaking an ex-ante cost-benefit analysis of the Project. However, as it was done in SDF I, a basic
cost effectiveness analysis will be carried out during the appraisal of individual sub-projects according to
procedures described in the Operational Manual. Both the desk and field appraisal cover technical
feasibility, econornic analysis, financial soundness, institutional assessment of executing agencies,
community and beneficiary participation, environmental impacts and sustainability.
The ex-ante appraisal will be conducted for all RSDF sub-projects. The appraiser first determines if the
proposed sub-project effectively addressed the identified problem and whether the best alternative solution
was chosen. Afterwards, the following elements would guide the economic analysis:
*   Cost-benefit analysis would be conducted on sub-projects where benefits could be measured.
Where benefits could not be quantified, cost effectiveness and least-cost analysis would be applied.
As the sub-project selection process would be competitive, sub-projects with a high level of
perceived benefits (quantifiable and not quantifiable) would be given an "economic impact" bonus
in the scoring system. RSDF would develop ranges for cost per beneficiary and cost per unit
delivered (kilometer of road rehabilitated, metel of -well or pipes, attendee at a training program,
grant recipient). At first, in SDF I these ranges were based on existing experience in Romania.
Over time, based on RSDF field experience these unit costs were refined, setting new examples of
lowering unit costs by using appropriate technologies and community management of works.
*   The economic analysis of all sub-projects is underpinned by strict budget controls on sub-project
costs, based on the establishment of a unit cost data base of major sub-project inputs. This will be
updated at least quarterly during SDF II to adjust for the unstable price environment in Romania.
*   Economic analysis would include sustainability and institutional arrangements for operations and
maintenance required after the investment, according to each applicable type of sub-project.
Statements regarding the financing of all recurrent costs generated by RSDF investments would be
required at the ex-ante appraisal stage.
Economic soundness of RSDF sub-projects will continue to be monitored through: (i) the Management
Information System, which is providing standard reports on the number of beneficiaries, costs per
beneficiary, cost per unit delivered, and other key performance indicators; and (ii) independent technical
audits and beneficiary assessments which would be conducted on a sample of sub-projects ex-post, and
among other indicators, would confirm the cost effectiveness, benefit level, and/or economic impact
depending on the type of sub-project, as well as observed sustainability.
Summary of benefits and costs:
It is difficult to quantify the benefits of RSDF financed sub-projects due to their qualitative nature. Benefits
include improved access to schools, health care units and markets, reduced likelihood of diseases caused by
lack of water or polluted water, availability ofjobs, improved business environment, availability of social
services to disadvantaged groups etc. SDF II will enhance its assessments of the benefits of both individual
sub-projects and the overall program through its program of monitoring and evaluation (see Annex 2). On
the costs side, the minimum level of beneficiaries' contribution (in kind or cash) are: 10 percent of the
sub-project grant for small rural infrastructure; 5 percent of the sub-project grant for community based
- 54 -



social services; 15 percent of the sub-project grant for income generating activities; and 5 percent and/or a
matching grant for follow-up activities. . A case-based analysis of the SDF I infrastructure sub-projects
showed that the contribution percentage was exceeded in all cases, the average community contribution
standing at 11.7%.
Main Assumptions:
Sub-projects cut across a range of sectors in which RSDF is complying with Romanian standards.
However, such standards are appropriate, for example, for large scale public works using centrally
designed technologies. RSDF is promoting more appropriate technologies that are basic and durable, match
the skill available to beneficiaries, and are within the communities' means to establish, operate and
maintain. As in SDF I, contractors under RSDF sub-projects are expected to adopt least cost solutions.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
For SDF I, an ex-post cost analysis of small infrastructure sub-projects was carried out on a case-studies
basis (Progress under the Small Rural Infrastructure Component and Recommendations, Sinke, 2001). The
project-by project data collection and analysis confirms that RSDF's small rural infrastructure sub-projects
are executed for less than two third (62.2%) of the cost of comparable non- RSDF works. The largest
variance with non- RSDF financed execution is found for building rehabilitation (community center) a'
34% of non-RSDF costs.
Project design or RSL'F small rural infrastructure sub-projects is contracted out at slightly over haif
(52.3%) of the design cost of comparable non- RSDF financed projects. The largest variances with non*
RSDF financed projects are found among road projects at 50.4%.
hi the area of site supervision, RSDF financed sub-projects are also substantially cheaper (57.3%) than
comparable non- RSDF projects.
- 55 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ROMANIA: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND 11 (PHASE 11 APL)
Years Ending
December 31
Year I     Year 2  | Year 3       Year 4     Year 5| Year 6         Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             0.7         6.0        6.7         6.7        6.7        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.1         0.5         0.5        0.5         0.5        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs            0.8         6.5        7.2         7.2        7.2         0.0       0.0
Front-end fee      0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing                0.8         6.5        7.2         7.2        7.2         0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    0.5         4.5         5.0        5.0         5.0       0.0         0.0
Govemment                   0.2         1.4         1.5        1.5         1.5       0.0         00 
rentral                                                                          0.0n       I.)
Provincial               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0         0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1       0.0         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.1         0.5         0.6        0.6         0.6       0.0         0.0
Others                      0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing       0.8         6.5         7.2        7.2        7.2        0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
There will be a start-up phase where sub-projects will be committed, then three years of full implementation
and a last year of gradually disbursing to the sub-projects already approved.
Recurrent costs include operating costs of the RSDF and a small share of the social services projects where
operating costs for up to six months are eligible for financing with an agreement by local authorities.
- 56 -






Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ROMANIA: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND 11 (PHASE 11 APL)
Procurement
6.1.   The RSDF will have responsibility for overall procurement management and will ensure that
procurement procedures, criteria and documentation agreed with the Bank are satisfactorily complied with.
This will include procurement under sub-projects implemented by the Recipients of the Project and their
intermediaries, such as NGOs. These responsibilities are described in Annex 2 and developed in further
detail in the Operational Manual. Grant agreements between the RSDF and the recipients would stipulate
these procurement responsibilities and procedures. The RSDF is staffed with an in-house Procurement
Specialist supported by procurement assistants. A Project Launch Seminar scheduled for March 15, 2002
will include a procurement refreshment workshop for RSDF personnel. Beneficiary representatives will get
procurement training before sub-project implementation.
6.2    The procurement methods and arrangements applicable to the various expenditure categories under
the Project are summarized in Table A and described in more detail in the RSDF Project Operational
Manual. Sub-projects approved for grants under the second APL would be financed by the World Bank
with contributions by the Romanian Government and the Recipients. Bank Guidelines: Procurement Under
LERD hx.ns and IDA Credits - January 1995, Revised Januarly andl .August i 996. Sopic?nbee 1997 and,
January 1999(Procurement Guidelines for works and goods), and Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers - January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999
(Consultant Guidelines), would apply in awarding contracts presented for Bank financing. Project activities
not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the national regulations or the co-financing
institutions' procurement regulations. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents would be adapted to suit
the Project needs for procurement. A General Procurement Notice will be published in the United Nations
Development Business at the time of project negotiations and will be updated annually for all outstanding
procurement.
6.3    The procurement of sub-projects, which consist of Small Works, goods and services and
procurement for RSDF, which consist of goods and services would be undertaken in accordance with the
Procurement Plan shown in Table B. The Procurement Plan would be updated annually and reflect any
changes in the scheduling of procurement process, which could significantly affect the timing and
successful implementation of the Project. The annual Procurement Plan would be agreed with the Bank's
prior review to its implementation. The procedures used for each type of procurement would be consistent
with those described in the Loan Agreement and in the PAD for procurement under the sub-projects as well
as with the stipulations of the Operations Manual. The summary of procurement activities is shown on
Table C.
- 57 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Proect Costs b  Procurement Arran ements
Expenditure Category                      ICB          NCB         Other      N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Sub-Projects (Community                                         24.71                     24.71
Participation in Procurement)
(18.88)                  (18.88)
2. Goods                                                           C.11-                     C.115
._______________________________       (0.097)                   (C.097)
3. Consulting Services & Training                                   1.64        0.25          1.89
(1.03)                   (1.02)
4. RSDF staff salaries                                                          1.70          1.70
5. Operating Costs                                 I                            0.25          0.25
Total                                                              26.46        2.20         28.66
(20.00)                  (20.00)
Note:
Figures may not add-up due to rounding.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IBRD.
aNBF- Non Bank Financed
L Sub-projects will consist of Works, Goods and Services up to an aggregate amount of US$ 24.71 equivalent.
Small Works (SW) contracts of less than $100,000 per contract will be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained
from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. Goods contracts under $50,000 pe:r
contract will be procured through National Shopping and sub-project services under $50,000 per contract will be
awarded through a competitive selection process.
Goods for RSDF central and field units consisting of furniture, computer and office equipment as well as vehicles
will be procured through International and National shopping.
Consultant services comprising individual consultants selected in response to an advertisement and comparing
CVs (aggregate $0.86). Audit assignment per Least Cost Selection ($0.070). Studies and Surveys as well as
consulting services and training for building community capacity may be procured under Selection Based on
Consultants Qualifications. Actual costs of training including travel, accommodations, etc. for participants as well
as premises rental with prior agreement with the Bank.
Local personnel, including Steering Committee fees and RSDF staff, recruited in accordance to Steering
Committee and Government of Romania agreed procedures.
Non salary expenditures of RSDF procured according to normal Romanian procedures.
W Consultant Services and Training financed by DFID under their procurement regulations.
6.4    Procurement under Sub-Projects. Works, goods and services under sub-projects will be procured
according to the provision for Community Participation in Procurement (CPP) (paragraph 3.15 in the
Procurement Guidelines) and according to the applicable procedures described in the Operational Manual.
The nature and composition of sub-projects financed under the Project is described in Annex 2. All projects
- 58 -



are demand-driven initiatives (aggregate amount US$24.71 equivalent). Poor rural communities throughout
Romania are expected to submit proposals for grant funding using resources provided under the Project.
Sub-projects would consist of proposals for: (a) small-scale infrastructure/small works sub-projects; (b)
community-based social services sub-projects; (c) income generating activities; and (d) follow-up
activities. In the interest of certain specific social objectives of the Project, it is desirable to call for the
participation of local communities and NGOs, increase the utilization of local know-how and employ
labor-intensive and other appropriate technologies as stated in paragraph 3.15 in the Procurement
Guidelines. About 2,200 sub-project proposals are expected to be received and processed by RSDF during
Project implementation. Of the proposals received, about 540 sub-projects are expected to be approved for
grant funding (comprising 330 infrastructure grants, 80 social services grants, 100 income generation
grants and 30 follow-up grants). The criteria for the preparation, appraisal and approval of these
sub-project grants by the RSDF are described in Annex 2. The grant amounts are estimated at under
US$75,000 (in exceptional cases, up to US$100,000 maximum). Sub-project proposal may include small
works, small quantities of goods, minor technical expertise/services, or any combination of these elements.
The composition, dispersed origin and implementation timing of the approved sub-projects do not make it
feasible or practical to aggregate or consolidate the small procurement items in these grants into large
packages suitable for Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) or National Competitive Bidding (NCB) by
a centralized procurement unit. Small works may be procured under lump sum fixed-price or unit rates
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic
contractors in r( sponz~ tv a k ;ittn ii.vitation. The contract will be awarded on the basis of price as long as
the lowest priced bidder has the capacity and resources to complete the contract. There will be instaices in
which the community will contribute with labor/technical knowledge and for which materials and goods
will be procured under the grant. Goods packages may be procured through National Shopping procedures
and awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three domestic suppliers in response to a
written invitation. In exceptional cases, goods up to an amount of US$5,000 equivalent per grant may be
procured through direct contracting with prior agreement with RSDF; if value of direct contracting is above
US$5,000 it will require Bank's prior review.
Minor services contracts under sub-projects would be procured using competitive selection procedures.
Sample bidding documents developed in the ECA Region would be adapted for these procurement
procedures. These procurement procedures for sub-projects are described in detail in the Operational
Manual, and will be set forth in the Grant Agreements between the RSDF and the Recipients.
6.5    Goods. Goods procured for the RSDF and used for its operations would be fimanced by the Bank.
These items consist of a limited quantity of office equipment, computer/MIS hardware and off-the-shelf
software, and vehicles, as well as miscellaneous supplies. Such procurement would be undertaken as
follows: (a) International Shopping for equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies packages estimated at
less than US$100,000 based on quotations solicited from at least three suppliers from two different
countries; and (b) National Shopping for materials (including training materials for local training
activities), as well as supplies of less than US$50,000 per package and operational expenditure items
required by RSDF consultants in connection with their facilitation, appraisal and supervision of
sub-projects financed by the Bank.
6.6   Training and Consultant/Specialized Services
a.  Training: Training refers to (i) fees for consultants, including educational or other institutions and
organizations, that provide training services; and (ii) cost of study tours, cost of workshops, and related
travel expenditures, and boarding, lodging and per diem allowances of training participants. Training
contracts under the capacity building initiatives of the Project financed by the Bank would be procured in
- 59 -



accordance with procedures stipulated in the Bank Consultant Guidelines. Training would consist of:
(l) in-country training/seminars for community level capacity building, Information, Education and
Communication, CBOs networks and Partnership Building as well as RSDF support for which travel,
accomodation and meals expenses would be paid in accordance with the rates agreed with the Bank;
(2) training abroad for RSDF, including participation in conferences and workshops; and
(3) study tours and other related training and expenses will be funded by DFID and will be procured as
per their own regulations.
b.  Consultant Services: Bank-financed consultant services consist of expertise to help build the
institutional capacity of the RSDF and recipients for Project management and implementation, beneficiary
assessment, community development; information, education, communication; facilitation and appraisal of
sub-projects, and supervision of sub-projects under implementation. Services will also include baseline
studies, beneficiaries assessments and other surveys. The consulting packages would be below US$1 00,I}0O
each and may be contracted to qualified local firms using the Selection Based on Consultants
Qualifications (SBCQ) process described in the Guidelines. NGOs are expected to express interest in
assisting in ProjectlProgram management and implementation. In such cases, NGOs would compete on
equal basis as any consulting firm, and the assignment would be awarded on a SBCQ procedure in
accordance with the Bank Consultant Guidelines. The contract for independent audit services would be
awarded to a firm on the basis of Least Cost Selection. In about one half of the cases (aggregate financing
le TS^' u6illion), the required expertise would be best suited to Lrdivid-iai cons;.art.s.   c
individual consultants would be selected on the basis of their Qualifications for the Assignment
comparing CVs in response to an advertisement. Before the issuance to consultants of any requests for
proposals, the RSDF would furnish the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project t:i
the Bank for its review and approval.
6.7    Salary and Operational Costs. Contracts for the RSDF personnel, the RSDF Steering
Committee, and operational costs would be Government financed and procured through regular
Government of Romania procedures.
6.8    Custom Duties and Taxes. All goods specifically imported for the project will be subject to the
payments of custom duties and local value added taxes (VAT) normally equivalent to 20 of the CIP costs
Works contracts are likewise subject to VAT (20 percent built into the contract price). Consulting firmns
and individual consultants are also liable for the applicable taxes. The aggregate value of taxes under the
project is estimated at US $4.2 million. All duties and taxes are paid from the Government contributions
6 9    Action Plan for Strengthening the RSDF Capacity to Implement Procurement. Based on the
analysis of both the agency's procurement capacity and the information gathered, the following
recommendations are made to improve RSDF capacity to carry out procurement under the project.
*   The procurement officer of the RSDF has attended training on procurement at ILO. The procuremen t
assistant will attend similar training in the early stages of SDF II. The procurement team should
present a comprehensive proposal for training required in order to fulfill their duties as procurement
officers for this project.
*   At project launch workshop, a full day procurement seminar shall be held for all project related staff as
well as other participating agencies. RSDF staff will be presenters at the workshop to describe the
procedures and processes followed during the implementation of a World Bank financed project and
Commnunity Driven Development projects.
* The RSDF will set a reference library containing all the WB procurement related documentation,
including the updated versions of the Guidelines, templates for Procurement Notices, standard bidding
- 60 -



documents (SBDs) (RFPs), standard evaluation forms, check list and Memorandums, as well as
required forms for input into the WB system.
*   The project Operational manual, which includes key elements regarding procurement (e.g. Terms of
reference (TORs) as well as regulations and criteria for the development of sub-projects) shall be
updated and agreed with the Bank during negotiations. The project Operational Manual should also
include eligibility criteria as per Bank guidelines for Government owned/supported agencies.
*   The procurement plan included in the Project Appraisal Document must be adhered to and updated
periodically.
*   Upgrade the MIS system that provides for the tracking and monitoring of all contracts. The MIS shall
have the capacity to record the amount of small contracts under the sub-project component. The MIS
will also include a database for unit prices and labor rates for sub-project. Samples from other WB
financed projects shall be obtained in order to design the most appropriate system that will enable
updates and linkages to the financial management system for the project.
*  The outreach and dissemination of information to the communities, contractors and authorities will
need to be improved as per the lessons leamed from the SDF I. The community training goes beyond
procurement and project management, the recipients need to be exposed to sub-project preparation,
coordination, banking systems, estimating costs, management of funds, accounting and record keeping,
works timetable, technical aspects, storage of materials, monitoring of contracts and reporting to RSDF
in addition to proper maintenance of completed works. It will be a challenge for RSDF staff to tailor
the different training to the various communities. T4-aining i-;GUul . hodd be eisigned to cover all the
topics mentioned above.
-   The RSDF will need to screen the communities that propose to carry out sub-projects with their own
labor force. RSDF must determine which types of project are suitable to be implemented entirely by the
community. As was reported in SDF I, without qualified contractors to construct complex works, the
community was not able to handle the technical aspects, coordination of the different building trades
and the quality of the works. More importantly there is a Quality of Construction Law (no. 10/1993)
that does not permit building without qualified staff (engineers, masons, carpenters, electricians, etc.)
*   RSDF must match the field supervisor's experience and expertise to the type of community and the type
of project.
-   The Grant Agreement must stipulate the procurement procedures to be followed in the text of the
Agreement. Presently the Community Handbook (procurement procedures) is a separate document but
given as part of the Grant Agreement and experience has shown that in many instances the bidders and
local authorities ignore it, Provisions (penalties) on how to deal with cases of mis-procurement should
also be stated in the Grant Agreement.
*   Sample bidding documents used under SDF I should be updated/modified to incorporate/reflect lessons
learned from the first phase.
Table A 1: Procurement Plan
- 61 -



Description   Type   Proc. Proposed Estimated   Invitation  BID Docs/  BidlRFP       Contract    Contract
Method Yumber  Total Cost   GPN/SPN  RFP           1. opening    signing     complete
of      (US$         Local ad  1. prepar.   2.evaluation
Packs.   millions)              2. Docs.    3.Recomm
Issued      for award                _
Sub-Projects
Small Rural   SW    Para.  several    20.70    GPN: 1/02 Demand driven sub-project. Schedule is determined by the
Infrastructure  Goods  3.15   ( under            Local: at  ub-project cycle as described in the Operational Manual.
&    of the $100,000)            each start
Services Guide-                       of the
lines                        project
cycle
Community                              1.41
Based
Social
Services
Income                               2.07
Generating
Follow up                             0.54
Activites
G oods            _ _ _  _ _  _                                       _ _ _ _  _   _  _ _ _      _ _  _
RSDF goods    G       IS               0.075               In.'iAii6n bo    May 2002    June 2002   July 2002
Quote
April 2002
Field unit   G      NS                0.040              Invitation to   July 2002    Aug. 2002  Sept. 2002
goods                                                      Quote
June 2002                     _-
- 62 -



Description   Type   Proc. Proposed Estimated   Invitation  BID Docs/   Bid/RFP         contract    contract
Method Number  Total Cost   GPN/SPN  RFP             1. opening     signing     complete
of       (US$         Local ad  1. prepar.   2.evaluation
Packs.   millions)               2. Docs.    3.Recomm
Issued      for award
Services   ___                       _                                 _              _
Facilitation    CS   Individ.  several  0.86                        As required per the sub-project cycle
Sub-proj pre-       Consult.
paration
Appraisal
Supervision
CS   SBCQ   Several       0.05     _
Proj.Mgt.    TRG                       0.15                 Actual Costs, program administered by RSDF based on
Committees                                                                     agreed budget
Capacity    TRG                        0.084                Actual Costs, program administered by RSDF based on
Building                                                                     agreed budget
Information  CS/TRG                     0.083                Actual Costs, program administered by RSDF(individual
Education &                                                  consultant or firm under SBCQ for campaing in villages)
Communicatio io
RSDF       TRG   SBCQ       2         0.070                 5/2002        6/2002       7/2002      12/2004
workshop   __    A                                _                                          _
CBOs       TRG                        0.040               Actual Costs, program administered by RSDF bused qrn
network          I                                                           agreed budget
Local     TRG                        0.050                Actual Costs, program administered by RSDF based on
Authorities                                    _                              agreed budget
Nat'l     TRG    NBF                 0.020                DFID funded. Program schedule as agreed with RSDF &
Commission                                                                       Borrower
Poverty                                                  L
RSDF       TRG                        0.038               Actual Costs, program administered by RSDF based on
Inst. SuDort                                                                   agreed budget
NBF                0.090                DFID funded. Program schedule as agreed with RSDF
Beneficiary    CS   SBCQ       2        0.060                 05/2002  |  06/2002  |  07/2002  |  04/2006
Assessment                                       l         l            l_l_l
Post implem.   CS    NBF                 0.020                OFID funded. Program schedule as agreed with RSDF
sustainability    _                              l          l
lnstitutuional   CS   SBCQ     1        0.040                  12/2005      1/2006       2/2006   |  4/2006
Impact      _                                 l          l            l_l_l
Project Audit   CS    LCS      1        0.070                         Yearly for the duration of the proiect
Quality     CS    NBF                 0.025                 DFID funded. Program schedule as agreed with RSDF
Assurance     _                                 l          l
Household    CS    NBF                  0.100                DFID funded. Program schedule as agreed with RSDF
Survev                                         l         I
MIS upqrade   CS    NBF                 0.025                 DFID funded. Program schedule as agreed with RSDF
Other                                         i          i
Staff salaries        NBF                 1.70                            For the duration of the project
Operating           NBF                 0.25                           For the duration of the project
Costs                                         l         l
SW= Small Works; G= Goods; CS consulting services;
IS = International Shopping; NS =National Shopping; ; QCBS=Quality- and Cost-based Selection; FB = Fixed Budget;
SBCQ= Selection Based on Consultants' Qualification; IC =Individual Consultant, LC = Least Cost,
NBF = Non bank fmnancing
- 63 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Summary of Procurement Activities and Prior Review Thresholds
Sub-proiects                                                                                   Para.3.15 of
Procurement                                                                                    Guidelines.
thresholds                                                                                     Sw under $I100,000
Indlividual and                                                                                Goods under
aggregate                                                                                      $50,000
Services under
$50,000
Aggregate:
$ 24.71 million
Goods
Procurement                                   Below $100,000   Below $50,000
thresholds:
ndividual and                                Aggregate: $0.1   Aggregate: $0.05
aggregate                                     million          million
Pnor Review                                   First contract   First contract and All contracts  First 3 Grants under
all contract for   above $100,000  the "Follow up
Sub-projects above              component"
$50,000                         And the first 3
Direct contracting              contracts for
for goods above                 servi_- - .ioTr tne
I.  I________________   i _____________   L                                                     sun.przjeu.s    j   ________-___$5,000  _
|Consultants                   _               _               Aggregate: $0.070 Aggregate: $0.22                Aggregate
million         million                          $0. 86 million
Prior Review                                                   Full review     All TORs                          All TORE
TOR,                            TOR,qual iiications
qualifications and               and contra.ct for all
contract for all                 assignmenit contracts
assignments                      above $50,000
Above $100,000                   l
|Ex-post Review                                        Ex-post review mechanism: Review carried out in accordance with P-ara. 4 of
Appendix I of the Bank's Guidelines and reviews during supervision missions
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
Brief statement
Overall responsibility for Project management and coordination will res
with the Romania Social Development Fund. The RSDF has implemented
the First SDF under Bank financing. RSDF is supported by Technical
Assistance consisting of: Procurement Specialist and assistants, Financial
Management and/Information Systems Specialists. RSDF staff will
continue the task of providing procurement and operational training to the
Grant Recipients and communities.
Country Procurement Assessment Report for Romania was Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the frst year
completed in August of 1999. This project is a            ready by negotiations ? Yes[ I         No [X]
Community Driven Development Project, all procurement This is a demand driven program. Sample bid documents are inc luded in
activities are to follow the Loan Agreement, Guidelines    the Operational Manual
and Operational Manual.
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop: March 2002
- 64 -



Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice: By project
negotiations.
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development
Business: Yes     No X
Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes    No  X
Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable: Yes   No [X]
Retroactive financing: Yes    No
[X]                                   Explain:
Advance procurement: Yes     No [X]
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires Bank's prior review will be cleared by Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and
relevant technical staff. No packages above mandatory review thresholds by RPA are anticipated. The RSDF will maintain complete
procurement files which will be reviewed by Bank's supervision missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated semi-annually.
Procurement information will be recorded by the RSDF and submitted to the Bank as part of the quarterly and annual progress reports.
This information will include: revised cost estimates for the different contracts; revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts; as well as compliance with aggregate limits (within
15%) on specific methods of procurement. A Management Information System (MIS), with a procurement module will help the RSDF
monitor all procurement information.
IC-fnancing:. Yes, UK Department for International Development (DFID) _  _        __M__           _ _
Section 4: Procurenient Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team
responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name: Evelyn Villatoro       Ext: 3-2486
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: There
is no procurement capacity at the Resident Mission in Bucharest.
6.10    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions. Prior Bank review would be required before
final decisions on contract awards are made on Bank-financed items, for the following procurement actions:
a. Sub-project grants: Under SDF I the first three grants awarded by RSDF to recipients in each of the
three categories of sub-projects (small infrastructure, social services, income generation) was subject to
prior review. Under SDF II the first three grants under the new component "follow-up sub-projects" will be
subject to prior review. Under all sub-projects, the Bank will also conduct a prior review of the following
contracts procured by the grant recipients:
(i) small works: any works contracts above US$100,000.
(ii) goods: any goods contracts above US$50,000 per contract, as well as goods procured through
direct contracting above US$5,000.
(iii) consultant services: the first three contracts.
b.  Procurement by the RSDF:
(i) training: the proposed annia spending program for training .
(ii) consultant services: (a) all contracts with firms of US$100,000 and above; (b) all contracts with
individuals of US$50,000 and above; and (c) full review of RFP, technical and financial evaluation and
- 65 -



the contract for the provision of audit services selected in accordance with Least Cost selection method.
Terms of Reference for all assignments will be subject for prior review regardless of value.
(iii) goods: (a) the first contract procured through International Shopping; and (b) the first contract
procured
through National Shopping.
6.11   Ex-post review of all other contracts will be carried out by Bank supervision mnissions. Table B
summarizes applicable procurement procedures and review requirements. Ex-post reviews on a random
basis would also be undertaken by the RSDF Unit and the Bank, of the procurement carried out by the
Recipients in the process of implementing their sub-projects.
- 66 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1. Sub-project Grants                       18.88                         84%
2. Goods for RSDF                           0.10           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
84% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
3. Consultants' services                    0.50                          55%
(a) for community capacity building
(b) for studies and audits                  0.30                          84%
4. Training                                 0.14                          84%
(a) for community capacity building
(b) for partnership building                0.04                          84%
(c) for RSDF                                0.04                100% of foreign expenditures
Total Project Costs                         20.00
Front-end fee         0.00
Total                                       20.00
Note. Consultants' services for community capacity building is to be contracted to individuals (subject to income tax
of 45%), while consultants services for studies and audits is to be contracted to companies (subject to VAT of 19%
of the net amount, equivalent to 16% of the gross amount). The disbursement percentages reflect this difference.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The following SOE thresholds apply:
(i)    Sub-projects:                      Contracts amounting to less than US$100,000 equivalent;
(ii)    Consulting services - firms:      Contracts amounting to less than US$100,000 equivalent;
(iii)   Consulting services - individuals:       Contracts amounting to less than US$50,000
equivalent;
(iv)   Goods and training:                All contracts.
All supporting documents would be retained by RSDF for a minimum period of two years and
made available to the external auditors as well as the Bank staff during supervision missions.
Special account:
6.12   To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would establish in a
commercial Bank a Special Account (SA). The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be
US$2.0 million based on the fact that this loan of US$20 million is the second phase of a $30 million
overall loan for the Program. This SA will be operated by the RSDF institution under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly and will be fully
documented, including bank statement and reconciliation statement, except for expenditures which may be
claimed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). The Special Account would be audited annually
- 67 -



by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
6.13   Project account. The borrower will provide its contribution through the General Secretariat of the
Government and, subject to the amendment of Law 129, through the Ministry of Public Administration
(MPA). The yearly contribution will be based on the planned disbursements communicated by the RSDF
Steering Committee. The RSDF would request regular payments into its own local currency accounts.
6.14   Accounts and Audits. In accordance with the provisions of OP/BP 10.02, accounting,
procurement, disbursement and audit are linked for effective financial management, so that the Bank can
receive accurate and timely information on the Project and, at the same time, reduce administrative burden
and ensure better client services. The RSDF would be staffed with qualified accountants, procurement
officers and MIS specialists to ensure accountability for Project funds, maintain timely records, maintairn
internal controls, report on the use of funds, facilitate verification of reports by independent auditors, and
provide information to the Bank as required. Accounting and MIS staff have been selected and hired to set
up an accounting system, establish a chart of accounts and prepare the outline of financial reports.
6 15   The Special Account as well as the Project Account will be audited in accordance with auditing
standards acceptable to the Bank consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
RSDF will provide the Bank, within six months of the end of each Government fiscal year, with: (a)
certified copies of the ZrranziAl stateifients for such year as so audited; and (b) an opinion on such fbwanci,-a'
statements, records and accounts and an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request. With respect to expenditures for which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the
basis of SOEs, RSDF will maintain records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures until at
least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Loan Account was made. RSDF will ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are included in the annual audit and that the
audit report contains a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the SOEs submitted during each
fiscal year, together with the procedures and intemal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
upon to support the related withdrawals. RSDF will enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records.
Financial Manal!ement
6.16   Project Accounting. The RSDF is fully in charge of all financial management aspects of the
Project. The existing financial management and information system (FMIS), used under SDF I will also be
used for SDF II and includes accounting, reporting, planning, budgeting, auditing and proper internal
control systems.
The Bank has defined a time-bound financial management action plan (see 6.26) to specify the steps
necessary for further strengthening of procedures before effectiveness and during implementation. The
development of the FMIS will be monitored by the Bank before effectiveness, during the first supervision
missions and throughout project implementation.
The financial - accounting department of RSDF comprises the chief of department, a principal accountant
and a cashier - accountant. It is envisaged that, if needed, an additional accountant is to be hired after
effectiveness to help with the increasing workload.
The RSDF will maintain all documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in
accordance with sound accounting practices. The financial - accounting department of RSDF will continue
- 68 -



to be responsible for keeping the accounting records of the Project, in charge of all payments, operating the
accounting software, handling both the Special Account (SA) and the Project Account (PA - Government
contributions), reporting both to the Bank and the Government, planning, budgeting, disbursement and
auditing aspects.
The financial - accounting staff are responsible for the planning, budgeting, consolidation and reporting
aspects, handling all financial accounting records, ensure that accounting records are kept up to date within
the accounting software and petty cash anrangements. The chief of department will continue to keep
permanent contacts with the beneficiaries, the Bank, accounting departments of the relevant ministries,
auditors and the Ministry of Public Finance. If needed, another accountant may be hired later, as the
project activities will get more intense.
Following the Bank missions' previous recommendations, recently, two additional staff members were
hired, both reporting to the SDF director, a "Grants Financial Specialist" (an accountant) and a "Grants
Technical Specialist" (an engineer) to improve the internal controls and monitoring of the sub-projects.
Ex-post controls are carried out by these staff members.
In principle, it is considered that with the above additional accountant and a certain internal reallocation of
tasks, the existing FM staff structure is adequate to handle in a proper manner the SDF II.
The Project Management Committee (PMC) comprises three members (a president, a treasurer and a
secretary). In the case of sub-projects that lack qualified persons, an accountant is also employed. In line
with the Romanian regulations, a chief of works (engineer or technician) is appointed for the small
infrastructure sub-projects. These persons are firstly accountable to the community group (an association
with legal status, established by at least 10 members of the local community). On a wider scale, they are
accountable to the whole community (village or communa) where the respective sub-project is
implemented.
The PMC keeps all accounting records relating to the sub-project. The accountant must be registered with
the local financial authorities to receive the right to keep simple accounting entries for the sub-project
(accounting is kept using the single-entry principle). The accountant thus receives the pro-forma journal of
receipts and payments for the sub-project which is kept up to date with all sub-project transactions.
The segregation of duties at the PMC level is achieved by allowing only two persons to sign and operate on
the bank accounts of the sub-project, the president and secretary/treasurer. In addition, beneficiaries
representatives from the community are nominated in the technical offers evaluation's committees.
The chief of works must certify that the goods delivered, works done and services rendered are in
accordance with the technical specifications and the terms of reference, before any payment is made by the
PMC.
The other EAs will keep the accounting records according to the Romanian legislation in force (based on
double-entry).
6.17   FMI software system. The Financial Management Information software system used has two
main components: the accounting package (Ciel, provided by Ciel Romania - a subsidiary of Ciel France,
one of the most popular accounting package on the Romanian market) and the management accounting
system, created in Access database by the internal RSDF Information Technology (IT) team.
- 69 -



The accounting software used (Ciel, version 4.21 for Windows) provides the main features of modem
accounting software packages, producing usual reports such as: trial balance, general ledger, balance sheet,
income and expense statement, journal, petty cash register, suppliers' ledger, etc.
Each entry includes the date, the codes, sequential number, budget code, sub-project code, the accounts'
numbers, the payment order I voucher number, amount in ROL, amount in foreign currency, exchange rale
and short description. The daily accounting entries are recorded only once, in Ciel, based on the Romanian
Accounting Standards and regulations. SDF uses the chart of accounts for 'not-for-profit-organizations'. as
required by the Romanian legislation. Data is automatically exported in Access database where it can be
processed and it is fed into the PMRs. Currently 9 out of the 12 PMRs can be produced by the system. The
same Access database is used for monitoring and evaluating the progress of each sub-project.
A transition to a competitive database, using Microsoft Server Query Language (SQL) is currently under
way, thus obtaining a much faster solution and cheaper than other classic similar systems. To this end, the
IT specialist is now working towards implementing such a system allowing for a competitive client-server
network with several access/operation levels.
It is perceived that, with a limited number of additional customization and adjustments, the existing FMI
;J S'., .iiii c used for the SDF II. Some of these adjustments were already j.e W f&rne -1?heuse b/ the
RSO)F staff, with the remaining steps to be done in accordance with tie attached tinancial management
action plan.
6.18   Project Management Reports. Only 9 PMRs can be currently produced by the FMI system.
The internal SDF IT specialist is currently working so that the full set of PMRs will be produced soon and
he is currently working on designing the remaining reports and linking these to the accounting records. It is
envisaged that a full set of PMRs will be produced by SDF II Project.
6.19   Government Contribution to the Project. Overall, so far sufficient funds were allocated by
the Government. In principle, the amounts requested as Government contributions were received in full,
with only a few minor reductions. The amounts are received monthly, on a timely basis, sometimes with
minor delays.
- 70 -



However, the State budget approval process remains a risk to the project due to past experience. One
twelfth of the previous year's allocated amounts are received until the current year budget is approved
(which usually happens in April-May). This limits to a certain extend the contribution received in the first
months of the year. Later in the year, the situation is partially corrected with the amounts received monthly
and additional amounts are allocated in the budgetary rectifications (that happen in September, October,
November and/or December). Sometimes, the rectified amounts are received very late and the RSDF team
had to struggle to use these amounts in the respective calendar year. For 2002, the Parliament is aiming to
have the Budget Law passed before January 1, 2002.
The exchange rate used by the Government has a negative influence in calculating the equivalent US$
amount. This is due to the difference between the exchange rate at which the Government accounts for
when the monthly amounts are allocated in the beginning of the month and the exchange rates at the dates
when the amounts are actually used, i.e. payments are made. The differences are now becoming minor, as
the ROL depreciation vs. the US$ is much lower than in the previous years.
However, despite these small differences, the cumulative effect of such variations (i.e. the time value of
money) may be more significant and, say at the end of SDF I, there may be material differences between
the equivalent allocated amounts (as considered by the Government) and the actual equivalent US$
amounts (as considered using the actual exchaange rate.. at the >a.c wien paymlents were made).
The Government funds for 2002 were earmarked in principle, as the RSDF management is aware that the
SDF II is to become effective in very early 2002 and they have announced the relevant bodies. However, as
the SDF II Project has not yet been negotiated and ratified by the date when the requests for the 2002
budget were made, there is a risk that insufficient funds may be made available for 2002. This has to be
carefully monitored and followed up, to be sure that sufficient amounts as Government contribution will be
included in the 2002 State budget.
By implementing the recent amendment of the RSDF's Law, whereby the Government contribution for the
SDF II Project will be allocated through the Ministry of Public Administration (MPA), as opposed to the
SDF I Project, where the Government contribution was allocated through the General Secretariat of the
Government, it is perceived that the risk of delays in payments relating to Government contribution is kept
at a moderate level. Thus, the yearly Government contribution to the SDF II Project will be received on an
annual basis, as part of the yearly budget exercise. The amount will be shown a separate sub-line in the
MPA's yearly budget.
6.20   Special and Project Accounts. SDF I uses a Special Account (SA - for loan funds) and a
Project Account (PA - Government contribution funds), both opened at the Romanian Commercial Bank
(RCB), the biggest bank in Romania. It is perceived that by opening the accounts for SDF II at the same
bank, certain economies of scale and easiness in operation can be achieved.
Signing procedures are put in place, allowing the RSDF director and the financial -accounting chief of
department (plus two back-up persons from RSDF's staff) to jointly sign when operating the above
accounts.
6.21   Flow of funds. The RSDF has full signature rights on operating all the above-mentioned bank
accounts. This ensures an uninterrupted flow of funds and allows the RSDF to account for and consolidate
all the financing sources of the project. The RSDF pays tranches to the selected EA (there are on average 4
- 71 -



tranches per sub-project). Tranches are released subject to a satisfactory evaluation report by RSDF staff.
The evaluation report contains a review and analysis of all the invoices received by the beneficiary and all
payments executed by the beneficiary for the respective sub-project. If there are no issues signaled in the
evaluation report, the RSDF executes the tranche payments from each financing source in accordance with
the grant agreement and the percentages for each source.
The beneficiaries' contribution to the sub-projects is in kind contribution (mainly labor, sometimes
materials, transportation means, etc.) for the large majority of the sub-projects. RSDF staff has the
responsibility to check the in-kind contribution and to make sure that the equivalent monetary value of the
in-kind contribution reaches the percentage agreed for sub-project.
Other fnancial sources to the sub-project that are critical to its implementation need to be provided upfront
through a bank statement or a legally binding document. Supervisors will continue monitoring that in-kincd
or cash contributions are provided in time during sub-project implementation.
The in-kind contribution is also accounted for at the PMC level. In quantifying the in-kind contribution in
monetary terms, the local market prices are taken into account. For labor, for example, an average of the
labor-day values for various types of activities relevant to the sub-project is being calculated (for digging
ditches, for building and for other similar activities). The PMC estimates the average equivalent cost of
labor-day. A list of the cftinmated labor days irewded is created and as local citizens participate in the
process, another set of iecords for the actual participation of each citizen is kept. The participation is
voluntary and not paid. However, local citizens do take part in the process, as they realize from the very
beginning that this is to their own benefit. The project records are available to the community members and
the whole process acts as a catalyst in building social capital, as citizens feel 'obliged' to become involved
in the process, especially when they hear that another fellow citizen already did so.
In order to cope with the other activities at the local level, the experience with SDF I Project showed that
citizens have less time to dedicate to in-kind contribution to the sub-projects during the season of
agricultural activities. To avoid delays, the calendar of each sub-project is developed to take into account
these aspects.
6.22   Internal controls. A detailed operational, financial and administrative procedures manual is
available for the SDF I Project and it will be also used for the SDF II Project, subject to revision. This
manual documents in detail the following main areas:
* the financial-accounting system of the SDF, with its characteristics and components;
* the financial resources of the RSDF (Bank, CEB, Government contributions - state and local
budgets);
* specific conditions of IBRD and implications for the SDF Project;
* budgeting, planning, monitoring, evaluation, progress reports, sub-projects' fiches;
* procurement (including selection, contracting, reception and payment for goods, works and
services);
* accounting records (including chart of accounts, detailed entries, procedures for recipients);
* audit (internal and external) and internal control procedures;
* administrative procedures (including organizational structure, personnel aspects, internal
regulations, etc.).
- 72 -



The RSDF supervisors are performing the sub-projects supervision in accordance with the internal
regulations of RSDF. On average, a sub-project is subject to 6 supervision missions during its life and a
compulsory final supervision mission at the end. The supervision is done on site and its objectives are to
provide the technical assistance needed and the control of the sub-projects. The result of each supervision
mission is a supervision report documenting the implementation status from the financial, technical and
social point of view. Through these reports the supervisors certify the progress of the sub-projects in
accordance to the objectives and activities mentioned in the grant agreement, and the observance of the
RSDF's procedures and regulations and recommend whether or not the next tranche is to be made available
(at the moment when less than 25% of the previous tranche remains to be spent).
The supervision report is presenting information about the physical progress of the sub-project activities,
contracts signed, data regarding the suppliers selected, procurement progress, the community's participation
in the sub-project, local contribution, any issues identified during the implementation, any recommendations
to improve the activities, and a detailed analysis on the way the funds were spent for the sub-project.
The release of the next tranche is done, subject to satisfactory supervision reports, on the basis of the
tranche request filled in by the local community. The request must be checked and signed by the supervisor
and counter signed by the sub-project coordinator and the RSDF financial accounting staff. In addition. to
Ate si ub  rojt;t .,td :,.mnnity details (names, bank account, etc.), the request must contain >-n. a-ac:mcn
with the total amounts received to date (RSDF funds, local contribution, interest), total payments made to
date, bank account balances and a copy of the receipts and payments journal.
The RSDF internal control functions at central level are ensured by the sub-project coordinators,
procurement and financial accounting departments that perform their duties in accordance with the RSDF's
"Sub-projects Internal Control Procedures".
The on site RSDF internal control procedures require the RSDF's internal grant financial and technical
specialists to perform ex-post reviews at the sub-projects sites. The on site internal control has the
objectives to check whether the internal RSDF financial-accounting and procurement procedures were
respected, the physical progress and quality of the activities and the technical and economic indicators for
the sub-projects.
In respect of PMC records, all relevant documentation (journal of receipts and payments, contracts,
invoices, receipts, tax records, salaries' records, labor contracts, budgets, conversion in USD of each
expense, eligibility details, etc.) are kept by the accountants of the sub-projects. The PMC submits on a
regular basis to RSDF reports on the financial-accounting progress, procurement progress and technical
aspects relating to the sub-project. In addition, the supervisors' reports present similar information at the
date of the supervision mission. Data is fed from these reports into the RSDF MIS.
In addition, the community participation and implication in the sub-project is analyzed. This is divided into
a general framework (i.e. what was the evolution of the relations among citizens, between citizens and the
mayor and how was the perception of the sub-project impact on the citizens' life), a PMC diagnosis (what
was their involvement, how did personal skills such as technical, procurement and accounting abilities
improve, transparence of the process, etc), the community members' and local authorities' involvement.
6.23   Audit. So far, the SDF I Project audit reports were received on time. Both FY 1999 and 2000
audit reports gave an unqualified (clean) opinion on the Project financial statements. Overall, both the 1999
and 2000 audit reports and management letters were accepted by the Bank.
- 73 -



The management letters mention a number of relatively minor issues, that were agreed with the RSDF
management and actions to correct these were already taken during 2000 and 2001, respectively, for issues
relating to the 1999 and 2000 audits.
The RSDF will have the SDF II Project financial statements audited (including special and project accounlts
and all statements of expenditures) in accordance with ISA - Intemational Standards on Auditing, by a fzm
of independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank.
RSDF will continue to select and hire independent auditors before the end of the fiscal year being audited
The audit reports will have to be submitted to the Bank before the 30 June of the year following the end o,f
the fiscal year being audited.
The auditors are also requested to audit the records at the PMC level on top of the RSDF accounting
records. To date, the auditors appointed for the previous fiscal years have performed the audit of the on
site records using relevant samples of sub-projects. It is envisaged that this practice will continue for the
SDF II Project.
6.24   World Bank financial management certification. Prior to World Bank Board presentaticri,
.1re finanrcial management system of the project was subject to iV detaillu Yv;vieW  _ a;sessment by a World
Bank accredited FM specialist, in accordance with OP / BP l1.02 and FMI requirements. The result of th_e
assessment was that the FM system for the project satisfies the minimum World Bank FM requirements.
It was agreed that the project will use traditional disbursement procedures (SOE) and produce PMRs for
reporting and management information only and not for disbursement purposes.
6.25 Financial Management Action Plan
Adjustments to the financial management system
Final changes to the existing accounting manual documenting the  RSDF staff   02/28/2002
SDF II Project's accounting and internal controls procedures
Finalize adjustments needed for the full SDF II customization of the  RSDF staff  12/15/2001
accounting software system and linkage to the PMRs
Completion of training to RSDF financial - accounting staff  RSDF staff       01/15/2002
Audit arrangements                                                                _-
Send RFP for no-objection to the Bank                      RSDF               09/01/2002
Confirm no-objection to RFP                                Bank               09/15/2002
Send RFP to short listed auditors                          RSDF               10/01/2002 _
Submission and opening of the offers                       RSDF               11/01/2002
Final evaluation and recommendation for selection          RSDF/ Bank         11/15/2002
Conclude contract with selected auditors                   RSDF               11/30/2002
Certification of financial management arrangements
Bank Financial Management Specialist to visit project prior to projec Bank FMS  Completed
board presentation to confirm adequacy of project's financial
management arrangements and, if appropriate, to issue the FM
certificate 'Annex 4-B'
- 74 -



Project Management Reporting
Agree upon the final formats of the quarterly Project Management   Bank / RSDF staff  Completed
Reports (PMRs)
Final customization of the remaining PMRs, full linkage with the  RSDF staff  12/15/2001
accounting system, PMR training provided and test run
Produce first set of PMRs as at March 31, 2002 and quarterly  RSDF            5/15/2002
thereafter                                                                   I
- 75 -






Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ROMANIA: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND 11 (PHASE 11 APL)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       10                            12
First Bank mission (identification)              10/09/2000                    10/09/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      06/21/2001                    06/21/2001
Negotiations                                     10/15/2001                    10/22/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    02/28/2002
Prepared by:
Ana Maria Sandi, Senior Operations Officer, ECSHD
Mariana Doina Moarcas, Operations Analysts, ECSHD
Preparation assistance:
Jennifer Manghinang, Program Assistant, ECSHD
Raluca Banioti, Team Assistant, ECCRO
Bank staff who worked on She project included:
Name          ..                             ). i5-
Ana Maria Sandi                    Task Team Leader
Mariana Moarcas                    PAD Coordinator
Steen Jorgensen                    Quality Assurance
John Innes                         Program Team Leader
Evelyn Villatoro                   Procurement
Bogdan Constantinescu              Financial Management
Rita Klees                         Environmental Specialist
Irna Kichigina                     Legal Specialist
Raluca Banioti                     Team Assistant
Jennifer Manghinang                Program Assistant
- 76 -






Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ROMANIA: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND 11 (PHASE 11 APL)
A. Project Implementation Plan
PIP for SDF Il.do
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Poverty and the Social Protection System, Tesliuc et. al., 2000.
The Well- Being of Nations. The Role of Human and Social Capital, OECD 2001.
Government Accountability in East Central Europe, Mungiu (coord.), 2000.
Rural Development Project Preparatory Study, World Bank, 2000.
The Villages of Romania: Development, Poverty and Social Capital- Updating Targeting for RSDF,
Sand,, 2000.
Study wL Reaching Poor Communities and New Target Groups, Dancu 2000.
Progress under the Small Rural Infrastructure Component and Recommendations, Sinke, 2001.
*Including electronic files
- 77 -






Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ROMANIA: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND If (PHASE If APL)
November 2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA                 GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P008783        2001 SOC SECT DEV (SSD)                                50.00       0.00                  .oo       coo       s0.W        0.W        0.W
P056891       2001 RURAL FIN (APL #1)- RO                             80.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      80.00       1.60       0.00
P043B82        2000 AGR SUPPORT SERV.-RO                               11.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      10.66       1.52       0.00
P056337        2000 MINE CLOSURE                                      44.50       0.00                  000       0.00      41.68      21.11       0.00
P008797        2000 HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                              40.00       0.00                  0.00      0.D      31.83       7.63       0.00
P065041        2000 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                      17.10      0.00                  0.00      000       15.18       -1.86      0.00
P049200        1999 SDF (APL #1)                                       10.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00       1.11       1.11      40.02
P039251        1999 PIBL                                              25.00       0.00                  0.00       1.10     14.60       8.37       0.00
P044176        1999 BIODIVERSITY (GEF)                                 0.00       0.00                  5.50      0.00       4.12       2.18       0.00
P05B2S4        1999 CULTURAL HERITAGE -RO                              5.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00       4.19       3.93      -0.10
P044614        1998 SCHOOLS REHABILITATION                            70.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      45.39      32.09     -11.28
P034213        1998 GENL CADASTRE - RO                                25.50       0.00                  0.00      0.00      23.15      11.82       0.00
P055495        1998 CHILD WELFARE REFORM                                5.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      Z77        2.44       0.00
P008780        1998 TELECGCMMUNICATION                                30.00       0.00                  0.00      7.00      15.73      21.92       9.29
P008778        1997 BUCHAREST WATER SUPP                              25.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00       8.33       8.33       0.00
P039250        1997 SECOND ROADS                                      150.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     22.90      -19.60      0.00
P0087'         1L97 H!O'3"ER  ;PUCATION                               50.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00 n.o             18.- 0      0.37
> '?flf        . hA-                                               120.00       0.00                 o0no        0.0      i7 n'      ,i.0,       0.00
P008794        1996 POWER SECTOR REHAB                                110.00      0.00                  0.00      33.50     58.66      92.16      68.81
PO08776        1995 EMPLYMT & SOC PROTECTION (ESSP)                   55.40       0.00                  0.00       0.00     32.33      32.33       0.00
PDW8777        1994 PETROL SECT REH                                   175.60      0.00                  0.00       0.00     77.86      77.86     -46.59
P008784        1994 EDUCATION REFORM                                  50.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      10.75     10.75       6.29
Total:     1149.10       0.00                5.50       41.60      606.68     371.14     26.77
- 78 -



ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994/98/01         Romlease                       4.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    1.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Small Bus. Loan                0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.02    0.00
1999               Ambro                          7.89    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.26    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Banc Post                      0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00
2001               Banca Romaneasca               5.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.92    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Bilstein Compa                 1.57    0.00    0.00    1.57    1.57    0.00      0.00    1.57
1996               Danube Fund                    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Demir Romania                  3.57    3.20    0.00    0.00    3.57    2.55      0.00    0.00
1997               Efes Brewery                   6.87    0.00    0.00    5-00    6.87    0.00      0.00    5.00
1998               FCR Fund                       0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Garanta                        0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30      0.00    0.00
19"?               Krupp Compa                    5.24    0.00    0.00    2.25    4 14    0.00      0.00    1.77
'S1,,u00           Mobil Rom                      6.43    0.0   -  .09    8.57    2. ;-    0.00    0.00    2.86
1997               Ratnbox                        1.24    u.00    2.00    0.00    1.24    0.00      2.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        42.73    15.80    12.02    17.39   28.71   14.85    12.02   11.20
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001              ICME                              12.94     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Kronospan Rom                   30.20      0.00      0.00     45.73
Total Pending Commitment:       43.14      0.00      0.00     45.73
- 79 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ROMANIA: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND II (PHASE II APL)
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central   middle-
Romania       Asia  Income        Development dlamond
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                        22.4       475      2,046                  Life expectancy
GNI Per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    1.670      2,010     1.140
GNI {Atlas method, US$ billions)                       37.4       956      2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                          -0.2       0.1       1.0
Labor force ()                                          1.2        0.6       13      GNI                               Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1994-00)                                capita              /         enrollment
Poverty {% of population below national poverty fine)    41
Urban Dopulation (% of total population)                 56        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         70        69         69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 19        21         32
Child malnutrition (I% of children under 5)                                  11            Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (S% of population)    58        90         80
Illiteracy (N of population ape t5+)                      2         3         15
Gross Drimary enrollment (% of school-aqe population)    96       100        114              Romania
Male                                                   96       101       116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 95        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                                     38.3       35.2      36.7
i ross domestic investmenVGDP                 39.8     30 2       17.2       1.4o
Exports of goods and services/GDP             35.3     1d.7       29.0      S4 is
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                    35.0     20.8       12.8      13.6
Gross national savings/GDP                             21.5       13.5      15.1
Current account balance/GDP                            -4.7       -3.7      -3        Domestic       /
Interest pavments/GDP                                   0.0        1.4       14 4      v                          le      n
Total debt/GDP                                          3.0       26.6      29:3      savigs              /
Total debt servicelexports                    12.6      0.4       31.3      15.7
Present value of debt/GDP                                         22.7      27.4
Present value of debt/exports                                     79.5      60.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  0.5      -0.7     -2.3        1.6       40          -     Romania
GOP Per capita                       0.1      -0.4     -2.1        1.8       4.3               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                 8.5      10.8       23.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(9% of GDP)                                                                          20
Agriculture                                            20.3       15.0      12.8
Industry                                        ..    50.0        35.9      36.3     1D
Manufacturing                                                   26.7      27.0
Services                                               29 8       49.1      50.9      0
96                    00
Private consumption                           59.9     65.9      74.4       73.9    -10
General government consumption                 5.0     13.3       12.7      12.5               -     GDI       GDP
Imports of qoods and services                40.1      26.2       33.4      39.9
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000       Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                            -0.6        3.4     -15.9    40 T
Industrv                                               -0.8       -1.6       6.2    30 - -
Manufacturing                                        -2.8       -7.1       6.2    20
Services                                               -0.5       -4.6       6.7    1is
Private consumption                                     1.2       -3.6       1.4 o
General govemment consumotion                           1.1       -9.4       4.2    10       95   96   97   gs   99   DO
Gross domestic investment                              -5.2       -5.3      10.9             -Exports        -0lmports
Imports of ooods and services                           6.4      -1.1       29.1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) comoared with its income-group averaqe, If data are missinqg the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 80 -



Roma.nia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990       1999     2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                       200
Consumer prices                                       5.1      45.8     45.7     "i
Implicit GOP deflator                        0.6    13.7       48.7     45.3    roo
Government finance                               r:
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                               ..    39.5       32.1     31.4             95   96   97   98   99   (,0
Current budget balance                        ..      8.5       0.0     -0.6             -GDP deflator    0 CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                       ..      1.0      -3.7     -4.0
TRADE
1980    1990       1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                 5,770     8,487   10,367    15.000
Textiles                                     ..    944      1.310    1,658
Metals                                      ..   1,136        502      822          -*
Manufactures                                ..   3,428      5,697    6,984
Total imports (cif)                           ..   9,202    10,557    13,055            _                 l  _i
Food                                        ..   1,211        795      932      s-_
Fuel and energy                             ..   3.896      1,251     1,830
Capital goods                               ..   1,958      2.903    3,767
Export price index (1995=100)                  .      97        Qs       ic-
Import price index (1995=100)                  .     105      1l11      -,0                   * Exports     a Imports
Terms of trade (1995= 100)                    ..      93        97        98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             i980    1990       1999      2000     Current account balance to GDP(%l
Exports of goods and services             12,087    4,295     9,870   12,133      o
Imports of goods and services             13,730    6,065    11.381    14,071         _
Resource balance                          -1,643   -1,770    -1,511    -1,938    -2
Net income                                 -777  -140  -411  -285  -4   liii..
Net current transfers                         0      107       626       860        .
Current account balance                   -2,420   -1,803    -1,296    -1,363
zinancing items (net)                      2,174     157      1,469    2,291
Changes in net reserves                     247    1,646       -173     -928     10 -
memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..    877       2,493    3,397
Conversion rate (DEC, locaUS$j1               ..    22.4  15,332.8  21,708.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999     2000
I US$ millions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       9,762    1,140     9,367   10,740
IBRD                                      806        0      1,662    1,898
IDA                                                                G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: 1,081   A ,9
IDA                                         0        0         0         0
Total debt service                         1,529      18      3,138    1,953
IBRD 1O10                                                              15C 5
IDA                                         0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flowsos                                                                               10
Official grants                             0        3       17        19                                     0 1,c94
Official creditors                        613       19         14      467
Private creditors                        1,360       4       -327    1,068E:7
Foreign direct investment                                   1,025    1,009          F: 5.442
Portfolio equity                            0        0       -715      110
World Bank program
Commitments                               240        0       380        68     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             239        0       315       384     B-IDA    D- Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       22        0        83        91     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                 217        0       233       293
Interest payments                          59        0        88       104
Net transfers                             158        0       145       189
Development Economics                                                                                             9110I01
- 81 -



Additional
Annex 1 1
Summary of the Beneficiary Assessment
ROMANIA: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND I
The Beneficiary Assessment Report was prepared by an independent institution, Metro Media Transilvania,
in October-November 2000. The report was based on case analyses covering both RSDF supported and
not-supported communities and disadvantaged groups in rural and urban areas, in three historical provinces
of the country. The main conclusions reached on the efficiency of the RSDF activity are as follows:
*   The RSDF financed interventions were aimed at solving fundamental problems of the recipient
communities. Without the funds provided by the RSDF, most of those projects would not have been
accomplished (this is particularly true for the rural infrastructure projects and for the income
generating activities).
* The RSDF funded projects had an immediate, direct and positive impact on the quality of life of all
inhabitants of the community (social infrastructure projects) or on certain important categories of
beneficiaries from those communities (the elderly, the children, and the Roma a.s.o.). Nevertheless, the
indirect impact and the positive influence ofthese projects encompass, either effectively thirough tlwr
small infrastructure projects, or potentially, all the inhabitants of those communities.
* Both the investigation data and the interviews show an increase of the social capital in the RSDF
supported communities. The positive impact of the projects on all the dimensions considered as social
capital components is reflected in the trust in "the neighbor", trust in the authorities and in the social
interaction. The positive influence of the projects can be seen in the emerging interaction structures and
the collective participation of the community members in the project activities, and in the actual
outcomes of the projects: increase of the economic opportunities and social interaction opportunities.
On the long term, another positive effect of the project consists in higher expectations at community
level, directly influencing new attitudes, approaches for finding solutions to other community problems.
In most cases, new initiatives came up as an effect of social capital increase. The lack of such
initiatives in not-supported communities points out at a causative relation between the RSDF and this
kind of activism.
* No project could have been accomplished without the participation of the local communities. In many
cases, the local contribution (money, material and work) exceeded the contract obligations.
* Projects sustainability is ensured either institutionally, through the participation of the local authorities,
or through community participation.
*   The implementation of the project (funds, expenses and activities) has been transparent. The financing
data were made public and, in most cases, there were no suspicions of fraud or corruption.
*   The relation with the RSDF is appreciated in positive terms and the synthetic definition is very
favorable. The communities' expectations are first of all related to the financial support availability on
a timely basis, getting advisory support at the application submission stage, higher flexibility regarding
eligible costs. The dissatisfactions are very few and they refer mainly to the delay in releasing tranches.
-82 -






Additional
Annex 12
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
Note: The key perfonnance indicators in the table below reflect SDF I progress taking into consideration
only World Bank financing (US$10.0) while CEB funds were not included due to delay in availability.
Level ofsatisfaction among  1             ~~~90%1                         75%
Nurnber of new CBOs created                               1671                          16
Number of small infrastructure                            167                             150
works operational in poor rural
anmmuirties         _                                          ____|    __ __
Numnc, of community based                                  41                             42
social services created
Numnber of income generating                               56                             42
activities created in poor
communities
Number of partnerships                                     88                             100
established between local
authorities, CBOs and NGOs
Community contribution/allocated
amount (%) per type of
sub-project:                                           15.64%                            10%
small rural infrastructure                             22.97%                            15%
income generating activities
Number of potential beneficiaries
per type of sub-project:
small rural infrastructure                             81,245                             n/a
income generating activities                              766                             n/a
social services                                        16,002                             n/a
Unit cost per beneficiary per
sub-project type
small rural infrastructure                         US$ 137.00                             n/a
social services                                     US$ 70.00                             n/a
Cost per job created by income                                                            n/a
generating activities                               US$ 1,654
Total number of beneficiaries                          98,013                             n/a
- 83 -






Additional
Annex 13
Romanian Social Development Fund
Steering Committee
Background information
The Romanian Social Development Fund (RSDF) is a public interest institution aiming to contribute to
poverty alleviation and to community driven development through improving the livelihood of project
beneficiaries in poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups and increasing the local organizational
and self-help capacity.
As per Law 129/1998 on establishing the RSDF, its organization and operation, the RSDF is governed by
a nine-member Steering Committee (SC) and has the following TORs and functioning regulations.
SC Membership
The RSDF SC includes:
r    repi ,sentative of the Prime Minister;
2. a representative of each of the following ministries: Ministry of Labor and Social Solidarity; Ministry
of Public Finance; Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Housing; Ministry of Public
Administration;
3. four widely recognized personalities in the civil society which are not members of NGOs involved in
the Fund activity and which will be nominated by the President of Romania.
The SC mandate is for four years; SC members mentioned at points I and 2 above are nominated by
Govermnent Decision. At the first meeting of the appointed SC, its members decide on their proposal for
the president position of the SC, to be submitted to the Prime Minister for approval.
The SC members may be revoked by the nominating authority, under the following circumstances:
(i) if they committed a crime and were irrevocably sentenced or did anything that may affect the Fund's
authority;
(ii) if they are in a conflict of interest situation;
(iii) if they fail to promote the Fund's principles.
The Prime Minister's representative and the representatives of the ministries may also be revoked by the
nominating authorities in case they are no longer in the position that represented the grounds for the
nomination.
SC Terms of Reference
The SC coordinates and controls the Fund's activity having the following responsibilities:
*  to define the Fund's strategy and policies;
*  to ensure that the Fund's strategy and policies are consistent with and complementary to the national
sectorial policies on poverty alleviation;
- 84 -



*   to adopt the Fund's regulations;
*   to approve the Fund's annual budget and activity report as prepared by the Executive Director; to
submit it to the Prime Minister and order its issue in the Official Gazette;
*   to ensure complementarity of the financed sub- projects with other projects initiated by other
organizations and to avoid duplicating their activities;
* to appoint external auditors for the Fund's financial statements and to receive reports;
*   to approve the establishment of regional branches of the fund;
*   to appoint 3 members sub-committees in charge of approving sub-projects following the appraisal
process;
*   to take any other measures in order to achieve the Fund's objectives.
The SC members will provide all necessary assistance and will help obtain all needed support of the
authorities they represent.
SC Functioning Regulations
The SC meets quarterly and whenever necessary upon request of its president or upon request of one third
of its members.
The SC meetings are chaired by the President or by a Fi  i spjdnte.; by the President if he/she is
unavailable.
The SC makes its decisions with a quorum of at least seven attending members, one of which shall be the
president or a SC member nominated by the president to replace him/her.
Should a conflict of interest occur for a SC member when a decision is put to vote, the respective member
shall refrain from voting; failing to do so may lead to his/her revoking and cancellation of the decision
made.
The SC approves its own organization and operation regulations.
F'or participation in the SC meetings, its president and members are entitled to a monthly fee of maximum
25% of a secretary of state gross salary level.
- 85 -



MAP SECTION






21    -24\                                                                                x6                                             28,          ROMAINIA
v2< as.s ,7 ~~~~~~UKRAINE                                                                                               SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
48'  t''sx   ty                                    t.t                  } _,CBOrSAt                                                     ~~~FUND PROJECT
> ' '-/AT 1 i .  M A  A .M k, '\, _>CEAIV                                                                    -                         -  0 POOREST COUN71ES
HUNGARY                    ,!Bpg    .-  aia Mare (<-;                                          <S                       @      .X<mvoEcurE
,!   iN   7  >  r  <  815TR1>>    >         .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   >   X          <       It7                     c    S~~~~~~~~ELECTED CITIES
..   -   t   .  S  A L A DvjFN < * XSUAIIST,ITA'                                                       se,._+8)\sCOUNITY (JUDET) CENTERS
,   _Orcidea          ',     vu 1                 eqSitia.   'S                           ;     A       E        M      a                  r<     >- COUNXY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
~~ 1R  ;  1S  6\ _;  -   *>>to  t-I B; # <#    g  -    0        *      X     t           v          1  z 0 \        _, _  ~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'   .  . -n.,   {i, ! /    7    '                     ''         V t F   ;    > ;t S                    $3it  
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                             c re      Ciuc(>/                                                          l     f  0  2S  t   }0  v tj   z27~  I.OD 1/  
v       wd,s                                                           i          t^ t          @                                                                                                     e  
F ED.                                                                                                                              RE P.    OF    S  gr  S   ;     s}    -   FSFin I 4 > t X Jr - + BUC>AREt;T - - - - * >5C,) I/avuav , '  40  50  ~
YtJGOSlAVIA          9   ~~~~~~~~Al.-4  suli.vxS   <\o.t                          -.-            )<            t          ctiAJ                    < j;rn/ O4vdr
>~~~~~~~1 TrmieboarSe sQa,anmaoeno                                                                                                                  y      lem siv 4 -A  /3  FocG;Tjr,sUtrc Jtss_wnit C.E4 2
sbDwn an yhle mop >2v rol sAply an t>APan of lI;e lAJorA;81Ak t3,njinSa Brc4t6
2~~~~~~~~~~~V                                                                      LR .=..                                     A   A H2  l_  )



