                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000538




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IBRD-46450)




                                    ON AN

                         ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION


                                      TO

                                  ROMANIA

                                    FOR A

       PROJECT IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE SOCIAL
                        DEVELOPMENT FUND PROGRAM




                                 August 15, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2006))

                    Currency Unit = Romanian New Leu (Plural Lei)
                        RON 1.00 = US$ 0.42
                         US$ 1.00 = RON 2.36

                              FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1 ­ June 30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBO     Community-Based Organization
CBSS    Community Based Social Services
CDD     Community Driven Development
CEB     Council of Europe Development Bank
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
DFID    UK: British Department for International Development
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
EU      European Union
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IEC     Information Education and Communication
IGA     Income Generating Activity
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS     Management and Information System
NGO     Non Governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
QAG     Quality Assessment Group
RSDF    Romanian Social Development Fund
SA      Special Account
SCAPSI  Social Capital, Poverty and Social Inclusion
SDF     Social Development Fund
SDSMC   Social Development Scheme for Mining Communities
SRI     Small Rural Infrastructure
USAID   United States Agency for International Development

                          Vice President:       Shigeo Katsu
                        Country Director:       Anand K. Seth
                         Sector Manager:        Hermann von Gersdorff
                      Task Team Leader:         Ana Maria Sandi
                    Primary ICR Author:         Mark Woodward

                                  COUNTRY: ROMANIA
        PROJECT IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE SOCIAL
                        DEVELOPMENT FUND PROGRAM




                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS

Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 23
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 30
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 32
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR......................................................................... 37
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 48
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 49
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Social Development
Country:                Romania               Project Name:         Fund 2 (APL #2)
                                                                    (SDF2)
Project ID:             P068808               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-46450
ICR Date:               08/15/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:             ROMANIA
Original Total
                        USD 20.0M             Disbursed Amount:     USD 19.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Romanian Social Development Fund
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
UK-funded DFID


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/09/2001    Effectiveness:        05/16/2002        05/16/2002
Appraisal:             09/25/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/20/2001    Mid-term Review:                        04/08/2004
                                     Closing:              08/31/2006        02/28/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                       Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agro-industry                                                  21                 21
Other social services                                          29                 29
Roads and highways                                             25                 25
Water supply                                                   25                 25


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                       Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                            Primary          Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                             Primary          Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                          Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                     Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Anand K. Seth                    Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:           Hermann A. von Gersdorff         Michal J. Rutkowski
Project Team Leader:      Ana Maria Sandi                  Ana Maria Sandi
ICR Team Leader:          Ana Maria Sandi
ICR Primary Author:       Mark C. Woodward



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To contribute to poverty alleviation and community driven development through: (a)
improving the livelihood of Beneficiaries from poor rural communities and




                                             ii

disadvantaged groups; and (b) promoting social capital enhancement and civic
engagement among project Beneficiaries.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   80% level of satisfaction among project beneficiaries.
Value
quantitative or 0%                         80%                              83.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/16/2002                   08/30/2006                       05/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %        104.5% achieved
achievement)
                Level of trust within and outside communities is increased (% of community
Indicator 2 :   members that declare an improvement in the level of trust, as compared to the
                beginning of sub-project implementation).
Value
quantitative or 0%                         30%                              31%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/16/2002                   08/30/2006                       05/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %        103.3% achieved
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Number of active community-based organizations (CBOs) in communities with
                Project interventions.
Value
quantitative or 0 CBOs                     300 CBOs                         300 CBOs
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/16/2002                   08/30/2006                       05/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %        100% achieved
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of poor communities benefiting from small rural infrastructure.



                                                iii

Value
(quantitative  0                         250                               286
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/16/2002                 08/30/2006                        05/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %       114.4% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Number of community-based social services established.
Value
(quantitative  0                         60                                70
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/16/2002                 08/30/2006                        05/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %       116.7% achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  Number of new income generating activities developed in poor rural
               communities.
Value
(quantitative  0                         75                                65
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/16/2002                 08/30/2006                        05/24/2006

Comments       86.7% achieved. The initial IGA ceiling of US$ 20,000 was increased to

(incl. %       US$40,000 because new EU regulations increased costs. Consequently, a

achievement)   smaller number of grants could be awarded, although total amount allocated
               remained the same.
Indicator 4 :  Number of sub-projects fixed and/or innovative sub-projects implemented.
Value
(quantitative  0                          25                               16
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/16/2002                 08/30/2006                        05/24/2006
Comments       64% achieved. Given the novelty and complexity of this type of sub-project,
(incl. %       applications were fewer than expected. Also difficulties were encountered due
achievement)   to EU requirements for waste collection sub-projects (innovative category).
Indicator 5 :  Percent of sub-projects that address poor women's issues.
Value
(quantitative  0%                        10%                               20.5%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/16/2002                 08/30/2006                        05/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %       205% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Percent of sub-projects that address poor women's issues.
Value
(quantitative  0%                        10%                               20.5%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/16/2002                                                   05/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %       205% achieved.



                                              iv

achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Number of sub-projects involving more than one stakeholder group.
Value
(quantitative  0                          300                               378
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/16/2002                  08/30/2006                        05/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %       126% achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :  Evidence of increased use of CDD approaches.
                                                                            CDD approach now
                                                                            embodied in:
                                                                            IBRD-financed
                                                                            rural development,
                                                                            mine closure, and
                                                                            social inclusion
Value                                                                       projects; EU-
(quantitative  n/a                        n/a                               financed PHARE
or Qualitative)                                                             2002 & 2006 and
                                                                            programs under EU
                                                                            structural funds;
                                                                            county and national
                                                                            level antipoverty
                                                                            plans; and national
                                                                            Roma strategy.
Date achieved 05/16/2002                  08/30/2006                        05/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Fully achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 9 :  Cost/effectiveness of RSDF financed activities is higher than cost-effectiveness
               of activities financed from other sources.
                                                                            Average cost/sqm
                                                                            of RSDF
                                                                            rehabilitated rural

Value          RSDF's SRI sub-projects                                      road is US$ 3.13 as

(quantitative  are executed for 62.2% of  n/a                               compared to US$

or Qualitative)the cost of comparable                                       7.39 (under Rural
               non-RSDF projects.                                           Development
                                                                            project) or US$
                                                                            13.67 (under
                                                                            SAPARD)
Date achieved 05/16/2002                  08/30/2006                        05/24/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Fully achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 10 : MIS is operational and providing useful data; evaluations are carried out,
               disseminated and used to improve the RSDF operation.
Value          Original MIS fully                                           MIS is fully
(quantitative  operational.                n/a                              operational,



                                               v

or Qualitative)                                                             including new
                                                                            indicators under
                                                                            phase 2, providing
                                                                            all necessary data
                                                                            for reporting and
                                                                            informed decision
                                                                            making.
                                                                            Evaluations and
                                                                            studies done and
                                                                            disseminated,
                                                                            including on the
                                                                            RSDF site.
Date achieved 05/16/2002                 08/30/2006                         04/08/2004
Comments
(incl. %       Fully achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 11 : MIS is operational and providing useful data; evaluations are carried out,
               disseminated and used to improve the RSDF operation.
                                                                            MIS is fully
                                                                            operational,
                                                                            including new
                                                                            indicators under
                                                                            phase 2, providing

Value                                                                       all necessary data

(quantitative  Original MIS fully        n/a                                for reporting and

or Qualitative)operational.                                                 informed decision
                                                                            making.
                                                                            Evaluations and
                                                                            studies done and
                                                                            disseminated,
                                                                            including on the
                                                                            RSDF site.
Date achieved 05/16/2002                                                    04/08/2004
Comments
(incl. %       Fully achieved.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                         IP                 Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     03/22/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     10/21/2002          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.50
  3     05/21/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       1.31
  4     11/05/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       2.33
  5     04/22/2004      Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                    5.39
  6     10/27/2004      Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory                    8.67



                                             vi

  7   04/15/2005      Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory    11.85
  8   10/26/2005      Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory    14.91
  9   06/02/2006      Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory    18.27
  10  01/22/2007      Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory    19.79



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vii

1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
1.1 Context at Appraisal

The post-communist transition process proved more difficult in Romania than elsewhere in
Central and Eastern Europe. A largely ineffective gradualist and piecemeal approach to reform in
the 1990s resulted in the share of the population living below the national poverty line doubling
in the second half of the 1990s (from 20 to 41 percent). In mid-1999 the Government embarked
upon an ambitious program of macroeconomic stabilization measures and structural reforms. As
a result, in 2000 the economy began to recover after three years of negative growth rates.
However, at the time this project was appraised (September 2001), the Government was having
trouble sustaining the reforms and poverty remained a significant problem. In particular, the
poverty profile reported in the Country Assistance Strategy of 2001 noted that 60 percent of
farmers were still poor, as were 70 percent of households headed by the unemployed, and 90
percent of Roma-headed households.

The Social Development Fund (SDF) Program, of which this project was the second phase, was
designed to contribute to poverty alleviation through community driven development (CDD) and
enhancing social capital.     Social capital is defined as relationships, networks and norms
facilitating cooperation either within or between groups. Social capital was (and is) particularly
important for countries like Romania, since its transition success depends to a large extent upon
the capacity of communities and individuals to get out of passivity, engage collectively and
individually in action, quickly anticipate changes and adapt to them, learn and share knowledge,
reduce negative social capital (related to corruption, clientele interests, etc.).  The Program
offered to poor communities the opportunity to be empowered through a "learning by doing"
process, by articulating priorities for assistance and participating in the design and
implementation of demand-driven sub-projects. The Program aimed at implementing the social
fund approach in two phases, over a period of about 7 years. The first phase (SDF I) was
approved by the Board on January 19, 1999, and was under implementation when the second
phase was appraised. The second phase (SDF II) was intended to consolidate and build on the
positive experiences gained during the implementation of the first phase.

The SDF Program and its first phase were included in the CAS approved on May 9, 1997. The
subsequent CAS, discussed by the Board on June 19, 2001, set out five Bank assistance priorities
for Romania, two of which were addressed by the Project: greater access to opportunity (through,
inter alia, rural development, outreach to ethnic groups, and promotion of social capital through
community development), and institution building to strengthen the rule of law (through, inter
alia, effective policy implementation).     SDF II was identified as an instrument for these
development objectives both in the low case and in the high case scenarios. Furthermore, as
Romania was one of four CDD focus countries in ECA, the Project was designed in line with the
regional and Bank's CDD principles.

The PAD indicated that the main sector issues were: poverty, unaccountable institutions, and low
levels of social capital. More than 44% of Romanians were living below the poverty line, local
authorities lacked capacity and incentives to work in partnership with local communities, and
levels of social capital in Romania were low.       As for the Government's strategy, poverty
alleviation was included as a priority in the Government's Program. An Anti-Poverty and Social
Inclusion Promotion Commission under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister was established
in May 2001. The Romanian Parliament decided to use the principles and mechanisms of a social
fund for poverty alleviation and social capital enhancement in 1998, when it passed Law 129,



                                              -1-

which established the Romanian Social Development Fund (RSDF), which was to implement the
SDF Program. After the joint review of the first phase of the SDF Program (December 2000), the
Government decided to continue this Program.

Given that the SDF I was one of the first two adaptable program loans (APLs) in the Europe and
Central Asia Region, the concept package for the SDF II was reviewed by the World Bank's
Operations Committee (OC). At that time the Borrower requested that the size of the Loan be
doubled (from US$ 10 million to US$ 20 million), which was agreed with the consequence that
the Project required full presentation to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

PDO: To contribute to poverty alleviation and community driven development through: (a)
improving the livelihood of Beneficiaries from poor rural communities and disadvantaged
groups; and (b) promoting social capital enhancement and civic engagement among Project
Beneficiaries.

PDO Indicators: level of satisfaction among project beneficiaries (as a proxy for livelihood),
level of trust within and outside communities, and number of active community-based
organizations in communities with Project interventions.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. The key performance indicators were not formally revised either.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main Project beneficiaries were to be poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups.
Poor rural communities were defined as "groups of poor rural householders facing the same
problems and obstacles and having common interests". Disadvantaged groups were defined as
including the poor elderly with no family support, the homeless, women victims of domestic
violence, poor women, poor parents with dependent children, street children, poor pregnant
teenagers, and youth at risk.


1.5 Original Components

The SDF II Project, representing the second phase of the Program, was designed to primarily
support the continuation and extension of activities supported under the first phase. However,
some activities were modified and a few new activities added. The new or significantly revised
activities are indicated in italics below.

Component A: RSDF Sub-Projects (US$ 25.86 million)

A. I. RSDF Sub-Project Development. The Project was to give grants to sub-projects prepared by
recipients in poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups, from the following categories:
    A. 1.1. Small rural infrastructure: rehabilitate, upgrade, build or equip rural roads, water
             supply (small scale piped water system), small bridges, community centers, small-
             scale flood defenses, etc., within the ceiling of $75,000 per sub-project grant.



                                                -2-

    A. 1.2. Community-based social services: social services for disadvantaged children (day
            care centers, life skills development and post-institutionalization assistance for
            orphans and abandoned teenagers, shelters for street children), shelters for the
            homeless, home care for disadvantaged elderly, etc., within a ceiling of $20,000 per
            sub-project grant. SDF II was to add community-based social services to youth at
            risk, such as youth gangs and Roma youth.
    A. 1.3. Income generating activities: activities such as milk processing, wood processing,
            wool processing, sun flower seed processing, honey and auxiliary products
            production, solar tents, greenhouses, community bakeries, handicrafts, resin oil
            production, fish nurseries, fish packing and selling, etc., within the ceiling of $20,000
            per sub-project grant.
    A.1.4. Follow-up activities: fixing small problems that may appear in sub-projects already
            financed by RSDF, within the ceiling of $10,000 per grant, as well as second grants
            for innovative sub-projects (such as waste collection and disposal activities) within
            the ceiling of $45,000 per sub-project grant, in communities that had already
            successfully completed a sub-project.
A.2. Building Community Capacity.         The Project was to support capacity building at the
community level through preparation, facilitation, appraisal, and supervision of sub-projects and
the provision of training.

Component B: Knowledge Sharing and Partnership Building ($0.26 million)

The SDF II's new component was to have three main sets of activities:
     information, education, and communication (IEC) activities to underscore the principles
        of community-driven development and clarify the RSDF procedures.
     building "bridging" social capital by creating networks of "graduating" community-
        based organizations (CBOs) and facilitating continued partnership between local
        authorities and CBOs, especially in the area of sustainability.
     building linkages with other national poverty reduction agencies and with projects with
        similar set-ups in the Region, including with the network of social funds for Eastern
        Europe and Central Asia.

Component C: Institutional Strengthening ($2.54 million)

The Project was to finance activities under two sub-components:
    C.1. RSDF institutional support, including establishment of 2-3 decentralized regional units
            and publishing of the RSDF Newsletter;
    C.2. Monitoring and Evaluation: There are two main sets of activities:
            C.2.1. Monitoring:
                 continued support for the MIS with a special emphasis on improving the
                     management of information and adding indicators related to quality of works
                     and services, sustainability, and social capital;
                 support for a small unit within RSDF that would analyze internal documents
                     and commission studies for M&E; and
                 financial audits;
            C.2.2. Evaluation: commissioning a series of impact evaluations with a special
            emphasis on building linkages with other Romanian institutions engaged in poverty
            reduction activities.




                                              -3-

1.6 Revised Components

None.

1.7 Other significant changes

The only significant change was an extension of the closing date by six months. This was due to
a case of force majeur. In 2005 Romania suffered unprecedented flooding and landslides. This
resulted in 15 sub-projects being delayed and subsequently requiring revisions. The closing date
was, appropriately, extended to allow these sub-projects to be completed.

After four years of implementation, RSDF determined that more resources were needed for
supervision of sub-projects. This required a reallocation. Although from the perspective of the
Romanian Government this is a significant change requiring amendment of the Loan Agreement
and a Government Decision, from the perspective of the World Bank this was not significant and,
indeed, such reallocations are to be expected over the course of Project implementation.

Finally, in 2004, in view of the European standards and rules for running a business, the grant
ceiling of $20.000 per income generating activity sub-project grant was increased to $40.000.
This had a significant impact on funding allocations for such sub-projects but was not a
significant change to the Project as a whole.


2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

This review concurs with the finding of the Quality Assessment Group's (QAG) Quality of
Supervision Assessment (November 2006) that quality at entry was satisfactory, noting an
"innovative, strong approach to social capital building" but with somewhat "limited attention to
technical aspects of local infrastructure design and quality assurance". In many respects the
Project Appraisal Document is exemplary in addressing social development issues. It specifically
identifies two social development outcomes sought by the Project: promoting social capital
enhancement and increasing civic engagement. Furthermore, these outcomes are specifically
included in the Project's Key Performance Indicators. The Project drew upon a Beneficiary
Assessment as well as several other assessments and studies carried out in the year prior to
appraisal, resulting in several significant enhancements to the approach piloted during the first
phase of the Program (see above).          And the approach is highly participatory, involving
beneficiaries in all stages of the sub-project process. However, as a project in which a majority of
sub-projects was expected to be for small rural infrastructure, it would have been well advised to
include engineering expertise in the Task Team to facilitate better attention to ensuring
appropriate design and sustainability of infrastructure. This was not done (in line with standard
practice at that time) because the first phase had been evaluated by an infrastructure specialist
who had not raised any significant concerns and, therefore, this was not deemed necessary.

Lessons from earlier operations: As noted in the PAD, the Project drew on the substantial
experience accumulated during the first phase of the Program, which had been carefully analyzed
by RSDF in its Evaluation and Monitoring Report for 2000 and Beneficiary Assessment the same
year. In fact the PAD lists eighteen lessons divided into three categories of lessons on: project
objectives, project components and outputs, and RSDF procedures. Particularly noteworthy are
the conclusions that youth at risk should be addressed by the Project and that a stronger focus is


                                                -4-

needed on monitoring and evaluation, including the dissemination of findings. The PAD also
drew a lesson from international best practice that vulnerability is a critical dimension of poverty.
This reinforced the decision to add youth at risk to the target population.

Risks: The risks identified in the PAD are those one would expect for a social fund project,
including the risks: of lack of government support at both the national and local levels;
community passivity or conflicts; elite capture; lack of sustainability; and delays in availability of
counterpart funding. The risk mitigation measures were appropriate. Many of them focus on
strengthening RSDF's technical capacity and its outreach activities. In retrospect the risk ratings
(the overall rating was "substantial") were probably overestimated. The Program had already
developed the confidence and support of communities and governments at both the local and
national levels. And the only risk that materialized in a significant way was that relating to the
availability of counterpart funds (which was effectively mitigated through the Government
support that had already been developed). However, overestimating the level of risk encouraged
RSDF to seriously undertake the risk mitigation measures envisaged, which it did successfully.

Participatory Processes: As noted above the Project design drew upon social and beneficiary
assessments and consultations were held with inhabitants of poor rural communities, local
authorities, and local NGOs.       In implementing a Community-Driven Development (CDD)
approach, the Project design is fundamentally premised on participatory processes.


2.2 Implementation

At all times during implementation the Project has been rated, both with respect to the project
development objectives and implementation, either satisfactory or highly satisfactory.            The
Project has never been considered to be at risk.

The Loan Agreement became effective 4 months after signing, which was within the agreed
deadline of 120 days. Then about four months later (September 2002) the Bank's Task Team
became concerned that RSDF was focusing too narrowly on delivering its intended outputs and
ignoring the broader impact on development that it could have through demonstrating the
effectiveness of community-driven development and social capital building. Furthermore, the
Bank was concerned that RSDF was becoming overly bureaucratic, making it difficult for
beneficiaries to interact with the fund. For these reasons the project ratings were downgraded
from highly satisfactory to satisfactory. Eight months later the Bank supervision mission reported
that the recommendations made the previous September had been fully addressed and indeed
complemented RSDF for responsiveness to these recommendations. A year later (April 2004) the
PDO and implementation ratings were upgraded to highly satisfactory, where they remained for
the rest of the life of the Project. The issue of excessive bureaucracy did come up again, in
September 2004, but this did not affect the project ratings.

The mid-term review, carried out in April 2004, focused on assessing the extent to which the
PDOs would be achieved. The assessment was based on both monitoring by RSDF and an
independent assessment contracted to a local firm. The mid-term review concluded that the
Project's expected outcomes and objectives would be achieved. Therefore it did not make any
significant recommendations for project changes.

Two of the innovations under the second phase of the overall Program were slow to take off:
innovative sub-projects addressing the issue of solid waste disposal and sub-projects for youth at
risk. In the former case, new legislation in 2003, an interpretation of the EU environment



                                              -5-

directives, appeared to prevent the development of appropriate solutions to the solid waste issue
in mandating an overly centralized approach to solid waste management. Regarding youth at
risk, progress was initially slow, despite an urgent need, due primarily to lack of knowledge and
mistrust among stakeholders. But by March 2005 these problems had been overcome through
information, communication, facilitation activities involving potential applicants and sub-projects
in these areas were well under way.

In sum, although there were some initial difficulties in implementation stemming from both the
need to adapt to innovation and the bureaucratic pressures and procedures common in Romania,
RSDF adapted successfully and in general implementation proceeded well and without major
difficulties.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

As noted above, one of the conclusions of the first phase of the Program was that monitoring and
evaluation, and dissemination of M&E results, should be reinforced. Consequently the second
phase (i.e., this Project) included a new sub-component specifically for this purpose, which
included the establishment of a Studies, Analyses and Synthesis Unit/Monitoring and Evaluating
Unit (henceforth M&E unit) within RSDF to generate and analyze data as well as to commission
independent studies.       This M&E unit collected and disseminated a tremendous amount of
information. As an example, one can note that the RSDF website summarizes 37 internal and 2
external reports. The PAD described the M&E system in some detail as including three types of
activities: monitoring through an updated MIS; the production of a variety of specialized studies
to address issues not captured through the MIS; and a program of impact evaluation, including
(inter alia) beneficiary and impact assessment. Ideally the new baseline survey envisaged in the
PAD would have been carried out shortly after effectiveness. In fact the work was delayed until
late in 2003, which did however enable the study to feed into the mid-term review, thereby
providing justification for the conclusion that achievement of the PDOs was on track. One
important role of M&E has been to monitor progress in achievement of the Project's development
objective (PDO). The PDO is defined in terms of two types of impacts: on livelihoods and on
social capital enhancement. The former was assessed through several beneficiary assessments,
including that carried out at the end of the Project and summarized in Annex 5. To assess the
latter RSDF developed an instrument for the measurement of Social Capital, Poverty and Social
Inclusion (SCAPSI). The SCAPSI instrument is composed of a short questionnaire that is
administered through interviews with six purposefully selected informants at each sub-project site
and then repeated over time so as to be able to assess changes.1

The QAG Quality of Supervision report noted the availability of good M&E information but
criticized the Task Team for not summarizing it in supervision reporting. While there is some
justification to this criticism, it should be noted that the primary purpose of M&E was for RSDF
to assess and improve its own performance, a function that the M&E system served quite well.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Project was appropriately, as a project for which the specific investments had not been
identified at appraisal, given an environmental category of "F "(i.e., financial intermediary). The
environmental checklist developed and used under the first phase of the Program continued to be

1The SCAPSI instrument was also used to identify those communities having a higher potential in terms of
social capital and community involvement.


                                                -6-

used under the second phase. An environmental specialist was included in the Task Team at
appraisal but no such specialists were involved in project supervision. The team did spot checks
to ensure that environmental issues were being appropriately addressed. Nonetheless, given the
amount of infrastructure built and rehabilitated under the Project, it would have been appropriate
to have used the services of an environmental specialist during supervision to facilitate proactive
attention to environmental issues and verify compliance. No significant environmental issues
have been reported.

The social safeguards were not triggered and the Project was exemplary in addressing social
development issues. The possibility of triggering the safeguard on resettlement was avoided by
prohibiting any land acquisition under sub-projects. As noted by the QAG Quality of Supervision
report, "this project has performed outstandingly as an innovative project that creates social
capital, a much-needed public good in the context, and in testing how it may be measured in the
field".   A specialist in social development, specifically the Sector Director for Social
Development, was a member of the Task Team during both appraisal and supervision.

Procurement has not been a significant issue as the procurement arrangements were relatively
simple and RSDF had already developed appropriate procurement capacity during the first phase
of the Program.

Similarly RSDF had already acquired suitable financial management capacity. All project audits
have been unqualified. With respect to financial management the PAD identified both country
generic risks and project specific risks. One of the latter, i.e., that inadequate counterpart funding
could delay payments to beneficiaries, did materialize at two points in time, but was always
resolved, albeit with some delay. Furthermore, the same Financial Management Specialist has
been part of the Task Team for the entire life of the Project, monitoring the financial management
arrangements and responding in timely fashion whenever issues have arisen.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Planning for a post-Program exit strategy was envisaged at preparation. Despite some initial
inattention during the first few months of implementation, RSDF successfully focused thereafter
on developing its exit strategy. This process culminated in 2006, when RSDF brought in an
external facilitator to facilitate a strategic planning process. This process included a strategic
planning workshop in May 2006 with the RSDF management team and several Steering
Committee members.        This workshop agreed upon revising RSDF's vision and mission
statements and produced a business plan for the period 2006-2011.                 The new approach
emphasizes RSDF's role in contributing to Romania's social development through: managing
financing programs, providing technical assistance, facilitating partnerships, contributing to the
substantiation of public policies, and disseminating information.

The strategy, as it evolved (both before and after the strategic planning exercise), was threefold.
First, RSDF is actively involved in national forums, such as the Commission for the National
Development Plan and the Poverty Alleviation Strategy.             This, coupled with the wealth of
information generated by the M&E Unit, allows RSDF to effectively promote the CDD approach.
Second, RSDF has actively sought to implement other activities, projects, and project
components financed by a variety of donors. Thus, under IBRD funding, RSDF was selected to
implement components of the Rural Development, Mine Closure and Social Mitigation, Mine
Closure, Environment and Socio-Economic Regeneration, and Social Inclusion Projects. RSDF
has also attracted funds (over the course of the Program) from DfID, USAID, The British



                                                -7-

Council, the British Embassy, the Canadian Embassy, and the Roma Education Fund. Third, and
particularly important in Romania's new post EU accession environment, RSDF has sought and is
succeeding in carving out a role for itself in implementing EU support to new member countries.
Thus (although the final decisions have not yet been issued), it is probable that RSDF will be an
intermediary body for the use of EU structural funds (i.e., the Sectoral Operational Program for
Human Resources Development under the European Social Fund) and involved in the
implementation of the LEADER program developed by the Ministry of Agriculture with EU
funds to develop rural communities. Thus, RSDF has successfully strategized and implemented a
change management process that has allowed the organization to adapt and be able to continue to
have a significant national impact in the future.

The sustainability of sub-projects implemented by social funds is often open to question and
always a challenge for such mechanisms. Thus it is appropriate that due attention was paid to
sustainability during both sub-project preparation and implementation.          In particular three
mechanisms were envisaged and implemented to encourage sustainability: building attention to
operations, maintenance, and sustainability into the sub-project cycle; building it into the
mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation; and focusing on this issue in training and facilitation.

    · Attention in the project cycle starts from the beginning as each proposal must include an
        operational and maintenance plan, including financial and institutional arrangements.
        The likelihood of sustainability is then assessed as one of the selection criteria in the sub-
        project appraisal process.         During sub-project implementation sustainability is
        encouraged through the establishment of community-based operations/maintenance
        committees and/or partnerships with local authorities who formally commit to funding
        operations and maintenance. At sub-project completion ownership is not transferred to
        recipients until RSDF attests that provisions are in place for future operation,
        maintenance, and sustainability. Thereafter, sustainability is encouraged through four
        new mechanisms introduced under SDF II: post-implementation supervision, post-
        implementation facilitation, network facilitation (encouraging linkages between
        beneficiaries of similar sub-projects), and follow-up sub-projects (to correct deficiencies).

    · With respect to monitoring and evaluation, ex-post technical audits of sustainability of
        services and infrastructure as well as smaller studies reviewing and summarizing the
        findings of the post-implementation sustainability assessments of sub-projects were
        envisaged and have been carried out.          Then the MIS specifically tracks not only
        qualitative indicators of sustainability for all sub-projects, but also the number of sub-
        projects with post-implementation sustainability assessments one year after completion.

    · Finally, with respect to facilitation and training, the costs of training for sub-project
        sustainability are built into the sub-project budgets. In addition, graduating communities
        are encouraged to network, inter alia, to facilitate sustainability.
    ·

3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Although there has been considerable evolution in Romania over the course of the Program, its
objectives, design, and implementation remain relevant both to the country context and to the
Bank's assistance strategy. Indeed, as described in section 2.5 above, RSDF has also evolved in




                                               -8-

order to improve performance and to remain relevant, not just over the course of the Project but
also thereafter.

The country context has changed dramatically since the beginning of the Program and even since
the beginning of its second phase. Prior to 2000 Romania was one of the poorest economies in
Central and Eastern Europe. Since then the economy has turned around, with growth rates on the
order of 4 to 5 percent. Nonetheless, poverty and vulnerability remain substantial, particularly in
the rural areas typically targeted by RSDF. Much of the positive change has been motivated by
the prospect of EU accession (achieved on January 1, 2007) and the longer term objective of
achieving convergence with the EU in terms of living standards. The accession process brings
with it the possibility of considerable resource transfers from the EU. The challenge, however, is
to be able to absorb these resources. Absorption requires, inter alia, local level capacity to
prepare, propose, and implement quality projects. It is precisely in building such capacity that
RSDF excels.      This has been recognized through the agreements to involve RSDF in the
implementation of EU-funded programs noted above.

The World Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), dated May 16, 2006, focuses on
supporting Romania in addressing the challenges of integration with the EU. The CPS has three
pillars: (a) accelerating structural and institutional reforms to support sustainable growth;
(b) addressing fiscal vulnerabilities and modernizing the public sector; and (c) targeting poverty
reduction and promoting social inclusion. This Project and the other activities of RSDF are
relevant to all three pillars, but particularly to the latter. Indeed RSDF is implementing a major
component, focused on Roma inclusion, of the recently approved Social Inclusion Project.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Already by early June 2006, some three months before the original closing date (and eight months
before the actual closing date), the Implementation Status Report stated that the PDO had been
achieved and that all PDO indicators had been achieved or surpassed. This conclusion is justified
through the monitoring and evaluation carried out and contracted by RSDF's M&E Unit.

Although the ISRs reported on only a subset of the intermediate outcome indicators, throughout
implementation RSDF reported on the full set of indicators agreed upon at negotiations. By the
end of the project all but three of the eleven intermediate outcome indicators had been fully
achieved. Of the three that were not fully achieved, two were affected by the introduction of EU
regulations as part of the preparation for accession. In one case, this increased the cost of income
generating activities and, therefore, the maximum cost of these sub-projects was doubled, thereby
reducing the number that could be financed. In the other, the innovative sub-projects were
hindered by the introduction of EU regulations on waste disposal, thereby limiting the number of
such sub-projects implemented. The third outcome, the percentage of beneficiary communities
benefiting from other sources of funding, was nearly achieved (30% as opposed to the target of
one third).

The causal linkages between outputs and outcomes were well established in the Project's
logframe and confirmed through the monitoring and evaluation carried out during
implementation. The PDO was defined in terms of improving livelihoods and building social
capital.  In sum, the logic is that improving access to infrastructure, social services, and
opportunities for income generation and employment (which correspond to the three main types
of RSDF sub-projects; cf. table below) improves livelihoods, while empowering communities to




                                                 -9-

                                  Comparison of SDF II Sub-Projects
                           US$ millions, including beneficiary contributions

                              Small Rural           Income         Community-

                            Infrastructure       Generating        Based Social        Follow-up
                                                  Activities         Services
 Average Grant                  $0.081              $0.033             $0.019            $0.041
 Number of Grants                   285                  65                70                16
 Total Expenditures             $23.09               $2.15              $1.33             $0.66

work together and with their local authorities to plan, implement, and then "operate" sub-projects
builds their social capital as well as their capacity to work together for other goals.

Improving Livelihoods. RSDF's beneficiaries were, by design, amongst the poorest in Romania.
By the end of the Project, not only had their standards of living substantially increased, but their
confidence in the future was greater than that of control groups who had not benefited from the
Project. The Beneficiary Assessment carried out in 2006 found that "the beneficiaries of CBSS
projects are people more satisfied with their living standards than the average Romanian citizen.
In addition, beneficiaries believe, as opposed to the rest of the population, that their lives are
better than one year ago and they expect to be living better a year from now." This is true despite
the fact that, "we notice that the beneficiaries of RSDF projects live in much worse conditions
that the average for the Romanian population." Similarly, the impact assessment carried out in
the same year found that the small rural infrastructure and income-generating activity sub-
projects had a significant community impact: satisfaction of the beneficiaries with their standard
of living increased, as did their access to health care and educational services and to food stores;
the number of production activities and of jobs increased in the communities, as well as the
opportunities to obtain income from alternative sources; the satisfaction of the beneficiaries with
the locally available utilities and services increased; and infrastructure improved (the state of
roads, water supply, protection against floods, availability and state of public transport). These
results are corroborated by the achievement of PDO indicator 1 (level of beneficiary satisfaction).

Social Capital. At the time the Program started, social capital essentially did not exist in poor
communities. The lengthy totalitarian experience had eroded nearly all trust (in authority, in
community members, etc.) at the community level. Indeed, the poorer the community, the more
passive the population, doing nothing to help themselves and expecting that that State should
provide for their needs. Furthermore, community-based organizations (CBOs) virtually did not
exist. As noted above (section 2.3), RSDF gave particular attention to assessing social capital
development, developing a specific tool for this purpose (the SCAPSI). By the end of the Project,
beneficiary and impact assessments demonstrated that substantial results had been achieved. For
example, the 2006 impact assessment revealed positive evolutions as regards social solidarity,
social relations, people's trust in various local actors (mayors, local councillors, teachers, doctors
and nurses, people of the same nationality, the police, and shopkeepers), the willingness of
beneficiaries to get involved in community projects, their level of involvement in local
governance, and the social inclusion of disadvantaged categories. Furthermore, it found that the
level of involvement of the population and of their leaders in running RSDF sub-projects was
quite high, as almost half of the beneficiaries' families and over 70% of the leaders contributed
work, materials or money to the implementation of projects. This positive result is corroborated
by the achievement of PDO indicators 2 and 3 (measuring level of trust and number of CBOs in
participating communities, respectively).




                                                -10-

In conclusion, the Program and this Project not only achieved their development objectives; they
also played a key role in building a constituency for the community development approach. This
approach is now widely accepted in Romania and is expected to be the basis for many of the
regional development activities now to be implemented with the support of such instruments as
the EU's structural funds. The Program has, thereby, had an impact far beyond the expectations
at appraisal.


3.3 Efficiency

As pointed out in Annex 3, it has not been possible to do an economic analysis on the Project as a
whole.    However, studies prepared by RSDF make it possible to (a) compare the cost
effectiveness of RSDF investments in small rural infrastructure to similar investments under two
other programs in Romania and (b) estimate internal rates of return and net present values for
selected income generating activities. With respect to the former, the conclusion is that RSDF's
costs are systematically lower than those under the other two programs. As for the latter, the
average IRR for the incremental net benefits of the sampled sub-projects is 30%. Although these
results should be treated as only indicative, they do suggest that RSDF is efficient.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Given that: (a) the PDO has been achieved with impacts that go beyond the original expectations,
(b) the objectives, design, and implementation of the Program remain as relevant today, despite a
significantly different country context, as they did when the Program was originally conceived;
and (c) the economic analysis points to the efficiency of the Project, the overall outcome is
deemed highly satisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Poverty impacts and social development have already been covered, notably in section 3.2 above,
which discusses how the standards of living of beneficiaries have improved and how social
capital has been created. Nonetheless one particular aspect is worth emphasizing. This is the
Knowledge Sharing and Partnership Building component, which was added to the Program in its
second phase. Social funds, when they work well, typically build social capital within and around
communities. The SDF II, through this component, took social capital building a step further,
creating linkages between communities in different parts of the country. A variety of different
sorts of networks were created. As examples one can cite a network of wood processing sub-
projects in eight counties and a network of social services sub-projects in three counties. Such
networking allowed beneficiaries to exchange experiences, particularly with respect to
maintenance, thereby contributing to sustainability. In addition, information, education, and
communication (IEC) activities contributed to building the widespread acceptance of community-
driven approaches to development that now exists in Romania.

With respect to gender, it should be noted that women are well represented in RSDF; indeed half
of the Steering Committee is female as are both the Executive Director and the Deputy Director.
RSDF has systematically collected gender disaggregated statistics and the end of project
beneficiary assessment reports that the involvement of women in sub-project implementation was




                                               -11-

quite high. Furthermore, one of the Project's output indicators focuses on the impact on poor
women.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
There have been two particularly significant institutional changes brought about through the
Project. The first is the strategic reorientation of RSDF discussed in section 2.5 above. The
second is acceptance and understanding of community-driven development by authorities at both
the local and national levels. This is not simply a result of this Project. It began in the first phase
of the Program and has been carried forward in the context of other projects in which RSDF
implements components. As noted above, this change, coupled with the local level capacity that
has been fostered by RSDF, puts Romania in a stronger position to absorb EU support than has
been the case in some other new member countries.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The Beneficiary Assessment employed an integrated - i.e., both quantitative (survey) and
qualitative (interview, focus group) - research methodology, to address two major dimensions: the
impact of RSDF sub-projects (in terms of poverty, social capital and community development)
and the evaluation of sub-project implementation (relevance, usefulness, satisfaction relative to
results, inclusion, involvement, sustainability, etc.). Among the principal conclusions of the
report are the following:
    · Following the implementation of the RSDF sub-projects, significant positive changes
        were recorded in the intervention group compared to the control group for most
        investigated issues
    · The experience with RSDF sub-projects appears to have mobilized actors in these
        communities towards exhibiting greater interest in other financing programs.
    · Respondents (population or leaders) from the intervention group perceive a higher degree
        of positive change in the past two years compared to both the total, and each dimension
        individually (irrespective of considered dimension, the degree of positive changes is
        approximately three times larger than that indicated in the control group). Moreover, the
        degree of positive evolution is directly associated with the specificities of the sub-
        projects.
    · Community-based social services sub-projects have been particularly appreciated.
        Almost all beneficiaries of the CBSS sub-projects believe that the received services were
        very useful and as a result, declare their satisfaction with them (leaders share their view)
        and compared to other types of sub-projects, the sustainability of CBSS sub-projects is
        significantly more pronounced.


4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Low

The PDO has been achieved, there is wide buy-in to the community-driven development
approach, Romania is now a member of the EU, and economic growth continues despite some
political instability.  Furthermore, the Project has paid significant attention to ensuring the
sustainability of its investments. Now, responsibility for sustainability lies in the hands of sub-
project beneficiaries and their elected representatives.      The Beneficiary Assessment finds a



                                                -12-

significant degree of satisfaction with these investments, which provides a powerful motivation to
ensure sustainability. Of course this will not be enough to ensure the sustainability of all
investments. Nonetheless, while there will certainly be some losses, in this context the risk to the
development outcome can be considered low.


5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

As discussed in section 2.1 above, quality at entry was in many respects exemplary. Particularly
noteworthy was the collaboration between the World Bank's Human Development and Social
Development Networks during project preparation (and supervision), particularly given that this
project was prepared at a time when there was little cross-sectoral collaboration in the Bank. This
helped assure that social development issues were well addressed (as described in section 2.1).
However quality at entry could have been further strengthened if technical expertise in
engineering had been added to the Task Team.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

This Project was supervised by a Task Team largely based in country. This facilitated on-going
supervision on essentially a weekly basis. The Task Team developed a strong constructive
relationship with RSDF, which facilitated addressing issues in timely fashion. There was strong
continuity in the Task Team, with several key staff, including the Task Team Leader, being
involved from beginning to end. That the Team maintained a strategic focus is evident in the
aide-memoires, starting with the first one, which encouraged RSDF to focus on having a broader
impact. The comments made in the previous paragraph about the composition of the Task Team
apply to supervision as well.        However, in addition, the more regular inclusion of an
environmental specialist in the team would have been advisable (an environmental specialist did
participate in one supervision mission, in September 2002).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Given that both quality at entry and of supervision are rated satisfactory, the overall rating is also
satisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory



                                               -13-

Government commitment to this Project has always been high, based on the experience of the
Program's first phase. In the Romanian bureaucratic environment, where Government approvals
can be very time-consuming relative to some other countries, this Government support has been
very helpful in avoiding delays. Nonetheless, this support was not able to prevent two minor
problems from emerging. The first was a delay in project effectiveness relative to the World
Bank's usual expectations.      Given the lengthy approval process in Romania this had been
anticipated at negotiations and the deadline for effectiveness was set at 120 days. Effectiveness
was declared exactly 120 after the Loan was signed. The second was that at two different points
in time (2002 and 2005) implementation was slowed by inadequate ceilings on counterpart funds
imposed by the Ministry of Public Finance. However, in both cases, after the problem was
flagged by the Task Team, the Government resolved the issue.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

RSDF is highly competent, committed, and effective and its management maintains a high
standard of good governance. RSDF management is somewhat risk averse, which has both
positive and negative consequences. On the positive side, in the Romanian environment of
frequently weak governance and a culture of control within the administration (justified as a
means of preventing corruption), risk aversion is a powerful tool for protecting the integrity
(actual and perceived) of the agency. On the negative side, it has contributed to the occasional
tendency (noted in the aide-memoire from September 2002 and again two years later) to make
procedures too bureaucratic, as well as the initial failure (thereafter quickly and fully overcome)
to think strategically about the future mentioned in section 2.5 above.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Given that both Government and RSDF performance are rated satisfactory, overall
borrower performance is also rated satisfactory.


6. LESSONS LEARNED

The RSDF experience in implementing the Social Development Fund Program suggests the
following lessons, moving from the more specific to the more general.

· Supervision of social fund investments needs to emphasize technical quality, including
     environmental aspects. Social fund projects are typically (and appropriately) appraised and
     supervised by World Bank staff from the Human Development and Social Development
     Networks. But their activities, particularly with respect to infrastructure works, involve
     technical skills not available to most staff from these Networks. While appropriate social
     development-based mechanisms can do a lot to ensure the sustainability of sub-projects,
     technical expertise is needed too. It is not realistic to expect Task Teams for such projects to
     include specialists in, for example, roads, water supply and sanitation, energy, health, and
     education (all topics typically covered by social funds). Nonetheless, it is feasible to include
     a civil engineer in such teams. The same comment applies to environmental expertise. As
     infrastructure works often have the potential for environmental impacts, environmental
     expertise should be included in these teams too.


                                               -14-

· Facilitation is essential to the impact of social funds. There is a wide range of social fund
 mechanisms ranging from those that emphasize technical skills and are weak on participatory
 mechanisms, to the other extreme, where the focus on community participation results in a
  failure to ensure technical standards. RSDF lies in between, but with greater emphasis on
  facilitation. Indeed this is RSDF's greatest strength that has allowed the agency to have a
  substantial impact that goes beyond the impact of individual sub-projects. Facilitation also
  makes it possible to reach the more vulnerable, who otherwise would not be in a position to
  benefit from the social fund program.

· Bureaucratization of social fund mechanisms should be resisted.            The Project's last
  Beneficiary Assessment pointed out the tension that exists between RSDF's desire to simplify
  procedures to ensure flexibility and the generation of bureaucracy through the rigor of
  procedures and the desire to ensure transparency. While the latter governance concerns are
  laudable and indeed necessary, bureaucratization is counterproductive, driving away potential
  clientele. Rigor and transparency can also be achieved through the transparent application of
  simple procedures.

· M&E is a useful tool for ensuring sustainability. A big part of RSDF's ability to focus on
  the sustainability of sub-projects has been supported by the attention placed on sustainability
  in the agency's M&E mechanisms. This ensures that concern for sustainability does not get
  ignored in practice.

· Social funds can have a broader impact if they focus beyond narrow implementation.
  One of RSDF's roles has been to demonstrate the usefulness of community-driven
  approaches to local development. This demonstration has been made possible because, in
  addition to focusing on sub-project implementation, RSDF has also participated in a number
  of forums for policy making and has engaged in broad dissemination of the findings of its
  M&E Unit.

· Social funds can contribute to EU accession and integration. One tends to think of social
  funds as mechanisms for less developed countries. Yet the experience of EU accession has
  demonstrated that new member countries often are not in a position to put available EU
  resources to good use because at the local level there is very limited experience and capacity
  to plan for development. Social funds can build this sort of capacity. Furthermore, the EU,
  through such mechanisms as the LEADER program, is seeking to support the sort of
  community-driven activities fostered by RSDF, but typically does not have mechanisms to
  facilitate such activities.

· Change management takes time and should not be left to the end of the project. As in
  many other countries, the country context in Romania changed dramatically over the life of
  the Program. This meant that RSDF needed to remake itself to fit the changing environment.
  Fortunately the need to develop an exit strategy was flagged during project preparation and
  the Bank's Task Team continually encouraged RSDF to plan for the future. As a result
  RSDF is now well placed to continue to play a significant role after the end of the Program.
  Bringing in external expertise to support the change management process contributed
  significantly to this positive outcome.




                                           -15-

7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING
AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
None.

(b) Cofinanciers
None.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
None.




                                     -16-

                        ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                 Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

A. RSDF SUB-PROJECTS                     25.86              27.22           105.26%
B. KNOWLEDGE SHARING &
PARTNERSHIP BUILDING                      0.26                0.09          34.62%

C. INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING                             2.54                2.71          106.7%



            Total Baseline Cost          28.66               30.02          104.75%

Physical Contingencies                    0                   0                0

Price Contingencies                       0                   0
              Total Project Costs        28.66               30.02          104.75%
Project Preparation Fund                  0                   0                0
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.2                 0.2
      Total Financing Required           28.66               30.02          104.75%




(b) Financing


                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                          6.17         6.11         99%
Local Communities                                 2.24         3.8          169%
UK: British Department for
International Development (DFID)                  0.25         0.25         100%

International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   20.00        19.87        99%




                                         -17-

                              ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT


                   Expectation                                     Achievement
                                Component A: RSDF sub-projects
A. I. RSDF Sub-Project Development
         A. 1.1. Small Rural Infrastructure
Expectation: 250 sub-projects in the areas of     285 SRI sub-projects completed, including 27
rural roads, water supply (small scale piped      sub-projects approved under SDF I, but
water system), small bridges, community           implemented under SDF II.
centers, small-scale flood defenses, etc.         Types of sub-projects: rural roads ­ 236 (641
                                                  km rehabilitated), water supply systems ­ 32,
                                                  community centers ­ 13, other types of
                                                  projects- 4.
                                                  No. of estimated beneficiaries: 147,205
         A. 1.2. Community-Based Social Services
Expectation: 60 sub-projects to provide social    70 CBSS sub-projects completed.
services for disadvantaged children (day care     Types of sub-projects: day care centers ­ 30,
centers), life skills development and post-       temporary shelters ­ 9, home care for elderly
institutionalization assistance for orphans and   people -9, , information and counseling centers
abandoned teenagers, shelters for street          ­ 6, health promotion -3, other types of projects
children), shelters f or homeless, home care for  - 13
disadvantaged elderly, etc.                       No. of estimated beneficiaries: 11,206
         A. 1.3. Income Generating Activities
Expectation: 75 sub-projects financing            65 IGA sub-projects completed.
activities such as milk processing, wood          Types of sub-projects: bakery -13, sun flower
processing, wool processing, sun flower seeds     seeds processing -10, milk processing unit -8,
processing, honey and auxiliary products          bee keeping -8, vegetables and fruits
production, solar tents, greenhouses,             processing unit -6, wood processing unit -5,
community bakeries, handicrafts, resin oil        mill -4, handicrafts -3, markets ­ 3, meat
production, fish nursery, fish packing and        processing -2, greenhouse/ solar tent-2, fishery
selling, etc.                                     -1
                                                  No. of estimated beneficiaries: 23,225
         A.1.4. Follow-up activities
Expectation: 25 sub-projects:                     16 follow up sub-projects completed.
· To fix small problems that may appear in        8 follow up projects, out of which 6 for IGA
    sub-projects already financed by RSDF:        projects and 2 for SRI projects
· For innovative sub-projects (such as waste      8 innovative projects: IGA ­ 4, CBSS -3, SRI -
    collection and disposal activities) in        3 (garbage collection, waste sorting and
    communities that have already successfully    educational campaign on environment
    completed a sub-project.                      protection, educational center for environment
                                                  protection, etc.)
A.2. Building Community Capacity
Support capacity building at the community        23 communities from the poorest regions
level through preparation, facilitation,          benefited from initial facilitation (many
appraisal, and supervision of sub-projects and    previously facilitated communities ­during
provision of training                             SDF I and CEB financing submitted good
                                                  subprojects under SDSF II) and 29
                                                  communities from remedial facilitation
                                                  819 communities benefited from the RSDF



                                              -18-

                Expectation                                         Achievement
                                                 appraisers' assistance during field evaluation
                                                 46 training sessions were organized for 1083
                                                 sub-project leaders
                                                 4407 visits of supervisions were carried out
                                                 during projects' implementation - on the
                                                 average, 10.5 visits for a SRI project, 12.9 for
                                                 an IGA project and 5.8 for a CBSS project
                                                 308 communities, financed both under SDF I
                                                 and SDF II, were assisted after project closing,
                                                 out of which 83 through post-implementation
                                                 facilitation and 225 through post-
                                                 implementation supervision.
                Component B: Knowledge Sharing and Partnership Building
Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Activities
To underscore the principles of community-       Information, Education and Communication
driven development and clarify the RSDF          (IEC) strategy was re-defined comprising new
procedures                                       types of target population: public authorities,
                                                 business community, civil society
                                                 representatives ­ for which several meetings
                                                 were organized.
                                                 Various information and documents were
                                                 published regularly in newspapers, specialized
                                                 magazines, electronic publications, and
                                                 RSDF's web site. A book reflecting RSDF's
                                                 experience acquired during SDF II was printed
                                                 at a prestigious publishing house and many
                                                 brochures, leaflets and practical guides were
                                                 disseminated to different actors at local,
                                                 county, national and international level.
Building "Bridging" Social Capital
Creating networks of "graduating" community-     240 field visits were carried out by the RSDF'
based organization (CBOs) and facilitating       facilitators to set up networks between grantee
continued partnership between local authorities  and/or non-grantee communities
and CBOs, especially in the area of              8 networks were created (2 for SRI projects, 5
sustainability.                                  for IGA projects and 1 for CBSS projects), and
                                                 six were still functioning at the time of SDF II
                                                 closing date. Two professional associations
                                                 (made up by apiculture and sun flower oil sub-
                                                 projects, respectively) and one association for
                                                 administering a water network were
                                                 established.
Building International Linkages
Linking with other national poverty reduction    RSDF has strengthened and expanded its
agencies and with similar projects, including    membership in different bodies that deal with
through the network of social funds for Eastern  poverty reduction and/or community
Europe and Central Asia                          development: Romanian Donors Forum,
                                                 National Antipoverty Committee, Community
                                                 Development Organizations Network
                                                 (RuralNet), Europe and Central Asia Regional



                                             -19-

                  Expectation                                       Achievement
                                                   Network of Social Investment Funds (ECANet)
                           Component C: Institutional Strengthening
C.1. RSDF institutional support
Establishment of 2-3 decentralized regional        Two decentralized regional offices established
units and publishing of the RSDF Newsletter.       in Iasi (2002) and Alba Iulia (2004)
                                                   A newsletter issued periodically, two annual
                                                   reports published.
C.2. Monitoring and Evaluation
        C.2.1. Monitoring
 Continued support for the MIS with a              The improvement of the MIS, by adding new
    special emphasis on improving the              facilities and types of data such as: access via
    management of information and adding           Internet for the RSDF' supervisors, new
    indicators related to quality of works and     categories of data related to training, social
    services, sustainability and social capital;   capital and networking activities, new
 Support for a small unit with RSDF that           qualitative indicators regarding sub-projects'
    would analyze the internal documents and       quality and sustainability, new facilities of
    commission studies for M&E; and                graphical and statistical processing etc.
· Financial audits                                 The establishment of a M&E unit (2002), that
                                                   developed useful analyses and documents on
                                                   projects' impact, RSDF's processes and
                                                   policies, case studies, guides and other
                                                   practical instruments.
                                                   A financial audit was carried out yearly. There
                                                   were no negative findings, the auditors
                                                   expressing clear opinions about RSDF
                                                   accounts.
        C.2.2. Evaluation
Commissioning a series of impact evaluations       Three external impact evaluations ­ at the
with a special emphasis on building linkages       community and institutional level ­ were
with other Romanian institutions engaged in        developed:
poverty reduction activities                       Assessment of the impact of the RSDF's
                                                   projects (2004)
                                                   Beneficiaries & Institutional Impact
                                                   Assessment (2006)
                                                   RSDF: development perspectives (2006)




                                               -20-

                                             RSDF SUBPROJECTS

                                                                                                07/03/2007
                                                                                                 TOTAL
                                                                                                  RSDF
              Indicator                      SDF I       SDF II      CEB         RDP   SDSMC       Since
                                                                                                 Program
                                                                                                beginning


Received applications, out of which:           1,048        1,177      1,225        61    510         4021
 Small Rural Infrastructure - SRI                812          615         928       61    382         2798
 Income Generating Activities - IGA               90           76         176        -    60            402
 Community Social Services - CSS                 146          449         121        -    68            784
 Follow-Up                                          -          37            -       -      -            37
Implemented sub-projects                         255          436         248       33    116         1,085
 Small Rural Infrastructure - SRI                160          285         162       33     94           734
 Income Generating Activities - IGA               56           65          63        -    10            194
 Community Social Services - CSS                  39           70          20        -    12            141

 Follow-Up                                          -          16            -       -                   16

        NB.: SDF = Social Development Fund; CEB = Council of Europe Development Bank; RDP = Rural
        Development Project; SDSMC = Social Development Scheme for Mining Communities (part of the Mine
        Closure Projects)


                               No. of received applications under SDF II, per county




                                                                                           MIR = Small Rural Infrastructure

                                                                                           AGV = Income Generating Activities

                                                                                           SSC = Community Social Services




                                                    -21-

Number of sub-projects financed under SDF II, per county




                                                            MIR = Small Rural Infrastructure

                                                            AGV = Income Generating Activities

                                                            SSC = Community Social Services




                      -22-

                       ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD), like most PADs for social fund projects, did not include
a cost-benefit analysis, arguing that the demand-driven character of sub-projects precluded the
possibility of undertaking ex-ante cost-benefit analysis of the Project. Instead the PAD included
a cost effectiveness analysis summary. At project completion it remains difficult to carry out
economic and financial analysis on the Project as a whole, both because of the large number of
difficult to quantify benefits and because the necessary data has not always been collected.
However, one can report on two other sorts of analysis that provide an indication of the economic
impact of the Project. First, with respect to small rural infrastructure sub-projects, RSDF carried
out a cost efficiency study comparing the RSDF's cost to those of two other programs. And
second, RSDF has prepared a summary report on the costs and benefits of income generating
activities that allows one to estimate the net present value and the internal rate of return for
specific sub-projects.

Cost Effectiveness of Small Rural Infrastructure

In 2005 RSDF commissioned an engineering firm to carry out a cost efficiency comparison of
works related to rural roads implemented by RSDF, the World Bank-financed Rural Development
Project (RDP), and the European Union's Special Accession Programme for Agriculture and
Rural Development (SAPARD). The study looked at 46 rural roads sub-projects (24 from RSDF;
14 from RDP, and 8 from SAPARD) in 18 counties in 4 different regions (Moldova, Muntenia-
Dobrogea, Oltenia-Banat, and Transylvania). The analysis compared three types of works: roads,
drainage works, and small bridges. The results of this analysis are reported in Table 1 below. In
all cases RSDF's costs are lower than those in the other two programs.2

Table 1: Cost Effectiveness Comparisons

                                          Rural Roads (US$/m3)
                                           Plains                         Hills/Mountains
           Road Type         RSDF        RDP       SAPARD          RSDF        RDP        SAPARD
                A            $3.13       $7.39                      $3.54      $8.19
                B            $3.77       $7.41                      $4.14      $8.48
                C            $3.77       $8.29                      $4.40      $8.91
                D            $3.91                                  $4.61      $8.67
                E                                     $13.67                                $15.07
                F                                     $32.25                                $35.00
         Definitions
                A           Rehabilitation of existing gravel road
                B           Upgrading of existing dirt road to gravel
                C           Upgrading of existing dirt road to macadam
                            Upgrading of existing dirt road to macadam (with reinforced
                D           base)
                E           Upgrading of existing gravel road to bitumen
                F           Upgrading of existing gravel road to asphalt




2Of course, as indicated in the table, the standards are not the same, particularly in the case of SAPARD.
The comparison to RDP is thus a better indicator of efficiency.


                                                  -23-

            Drainage Ditches (US$/m)                             Small Bridges (US$/m)
       Type         RSDF      RDP      SAPARD             Type        RSDF RDP           SAPARD
      Earthen       $2.11     $2.22      $2.28          DN 500         $99       $105       $126
    Rock Lined      $9.57    $10.21      $15.53         DN 600         $122      $134       $157
     Concrete                $13.39      $23.07         DN 800         $140      $162       $208
                                                       DN 1000         $229      $230       $250

Economic Analysis of Income Generating Activities

RSDF has selected a sample of 11 income generating activity (IGA) sub-projects in eight
different counties for an analysis of their costs and benefits. These sub-projects include: a
bakery, milk collection, bee keeping, production of sunflower oil, a mill, a greenhouse,
mushroom production, a pond for sport fishing, and a peasant market. For each of these sub-
projects RSDF has provided the investment costs and the number of jobs created as well as
estimated the annual sales for the first two years in addition to operating costs. On this basis,
with some additional assumptions (spelled out in the tables below), one can estimate the net
present value (NPV) and the internal rate of return (IRR) for these sub-projects. The cost benefit
analysis is based on the incremental primary monetary benefits produced from sales and salaries.
The analysis does not include non-monetary benefits, such as the effect on quality of life, nor
does it include any secondary impacts through the multiplier effects of increased incomes.
Furthermore, the possibility of additional investments is not considered. The results of this
analysis, including sensitivity testing based on varying different assumptions, are reported below
in Tables 2 and 3. For illustrative purposes, the basic analysis of the first sub-project is presented
in Table 4 (the same approach has been applied to all sub-projects).

According to RSDF none of these activities would have existed without the investment in goods,
works, training, and technical assistance financed by RSDF. Therefore the first stage of the
analysis (the "with project" columns) assumes that this is correct3 and looks at the total costs and
benefits of these sub-projects. The principal costs are RSDF's investment costs, the share of
RSDF's overhead costs imputed to each sub-project, and the recurrent costs of the activity. The
principal quantifiable benefits are the incomes from sales and the salaries of jobs created under
the sub-projects. For this analysis we assume that the jobs created are not full time. We also
assume that sales will increase by 5 percent per year after the second year. Both of these
assumptions are subsequently subjected to sensitivity testing. Although it is reported in the table,
in our conclusions we will discard the results for sub-project 6 because it is clearly an outlier and
the results are not credible. This is most likely because many of the costs and benefits are in kind
and not quantified. Indeed RSDF's analysis refers to the practice of the "miller's portion" in this
maize mill sub-project. Excluding this sub-project, the IRRs run from 12% to 56% with an
average of 23%, and the NPVs are all positive.

However, given the substantial economic growth in Romania over the last half decade, it is likely
that some of these activities would have come into existence in any case, without the benefit of
RSDF's investments. Since we are not in a position to calculate an IRR for the Project as a
whole, we cannot assume that some of these activities would have existed while others would
not.4 Instead, in order to come up with an estimate of the incremental benefit of the Project, we
assume that for each of these activities the investment in works and goods would have been


3This assumption will be subsequently relaxed below.
4Nor do we have data on comparable activities in communities that did not benefit from the RSDF
program.


                                               -24-

reduced by two thirds and that there would have been no investment in training or technical
assistance. We further assume that sales and the number of jobs created would also be reduced
by the same factor. This reduction factor is also subsequently subject to sensitivity testing.

Under this "without project" scenario (again excluding sub-project 6), eight of the 10 sub-projects
have positive NPVs and the IRRs run from 6% to 41% (with an average of 15%), suggesting that
private investment in most of these activities would have been profitable.

By calculating the difference between the with and without project costs and benefits we can
calculate the incremental costs and benefits from the Project for each of these sub-projects. The
IRRs for the incremental net benefits run from 15% to 69% (with an average of 30%).

This exercise requires a number of assumptions to be made. In Table 3 we compare the results
(reported as average IRRs) obtained when several assumptions are varied. First, we look at the
with project scenario, changing the assumptions with respect to the degree to which the jobs
created approach full time work and to the rate of growth of sales. The middle cell reports the
results described above.    The surrounding cells show what happens when one increases or
decreases these two factors. The average IRR varies from 20% to 27%. However, given that we
are interested primarily in the incremental impact of the Project, we then repeat the analysis
varying the factor by which we reduce investments, sales, and employment in the without project
scenario. Again the middle cell in the middle table reports the average IRR for the analysis
reported above. The tables to the right and left show what happens when one increases and
decreases (respectively) this factor. The average IRR varies from a low of 22% to a high of 37%.
This analysis shows that the results are not very sensitive to changes in this factor.

This analysis suggests that the IGA sub-projects are generally a good investment and remain good
investments even when the assumptions are changed. Nonetheless, given the assumptions that
have to be made to do this analysis, these results should be treated as only indicative. However,
clearly there are also non-quantified benefits, which strengthens the argument that these activities
were economically justified.




                                              -25-

Table 2: Results of Economic Analysis

                                 With Project                      Without Project          Incremental Costs and Benefits
                           NPV               IRR               NPV                IRR          NPV                IRR
Sub-Project 1                 $11,500             12%              -$551               6%         $12,051                15%
Sub-Project 2                $107,683             38%             $31,734             31%         $75,949                42%
Sub-Project 3                 $23,217             19%              $3,234             11%         $19,983                26%
Sub-Project 4                 $33,206             22%              $6,803             15%         $26,402                28%
Sub-Project 5                 $24,091             20%              $3,716             12%         $20,374                26%
Sub-Project 6                $241,723            108%             $75,750             79%        $165,974              132%
Sub-Project 7                 $32,141             25%              $6,672             16%         $25,469                31%
Sub-Project 8                 $17,934             18%              $1,626              9%         $16,308                24%
Sub-Project 9                   $3,715            10%             -$3,217              2%          $6,932                16%
Sub-Project 10                $13,641             15%               $188               7%         $13,453                21%
Sub-Project 11               $122,307             56%             $35,838             41%         $86,470                69%
Average (w/out #6)                                23%                                 15%                                30%
                    Assumptions                        Assumptions

                                                        Factor for
                    Annual increase                     investment costs,
                    in sales after 2nd                  sales, jobs
                    year                            5%  created                       0.33
                    Discount rate                   7%
                    RSDF costs               $3,211,929
                    No. of sub-
                    projects                       436
                    RSDF cost/sub-
                    project                     $7,367
                    Average yearly
                    salary                      $1,668
                    Factor for part-
                    time work                      0.75




                                                               26

Table 3: Sensitivity Analysis

With Project (i.e., assumes that without project there would have been no IGA sub-projects)
                        Employment
                     0.5    0.75     1
          10%       20%     25%     30%
 Sales     5%       18%     23%     28%
           0%       16%     22%     27%


Incremental Costs and Benefits (assumes that a portion of investment and benefits would have occurred without project)
Factor                      0.10                                        0.33                                          0.50
                        Employment                                  Employment                                    Employment
                    0.50    0.75     1                          0.50    0.75     1                          0.50      0.75   1
          10%       26%     32%     37%                  10%    26%     32%     37%                 10%     25%       31%   36%
 Sales     5%       24%     30%     36%        Sales      5%    24%     30%     35%        Sales     5%     23%       29%   35%
           0%       23%     29%     35%                   0%    22%     28%     34%                  0%     22%       28%   33%




                                                                   27

Table 4: Analysis of One Sub-Project - Rural Bakery, Iacobeni, Botosani

 With Project
 Year                        0         1       2        3         4        5      6       7       8       9      10
 RSDF Costs             $7,367
 Investment Costs
  Works                $26,934
  Goods                $18,200
  Training                 $66
  TA                      $800
 Recurrent Costs            $0   $9,016   $9,782  $10,271  $10,785   $11,324 $11,890 $12,485 $13,109 $13,764 $14,452
 Total Costs           $53,367   $9,016   $9,782  $10,271  $10,785   $11,324 $11,890 $12,485 $13,109 $13,764 $14,452
 Sales                      $0  $13,457  $14,600  $15,330  $16,097   $16,901 $17,746 $18,634 $19,565 $20,544 $21,571
 Salaries                   $0   $3,753   $3,753   $3,753    $3,753   $3,753 $3,753  $3,753  $3,753  $3,753  $3,753
 Total Benefits              $0 $17,210  $18,353  $19,083  $19,850   $20,654 $21,499 $22,387 $23,318 $24,297 $25,324
 Net Benefits         -$53,367   $8,194   $8,571   $8,812    $9,065   $9,330 $9,609  $9,902  $10,210 $10,532 $10,871
 NPV                 $11,500.40
 IRR                      12%
 Specific Assumptions
 Recurrent costs as
 % sales                  67%
 Jobs created                3




                                                            28

Without Project

Year                         0            1        2      3       4       5       6       7       8       9      10
RSDF Costs             $7,367
Investment Costs
 Works                 $8,888
 Goods                 $6,006
 Training                  $0
 TA                        $0
Recurrent Costs            $0      $2,975     $3,228 $3,389  $3,559  $3,737  $3,924  $4,120  $4,326  $4,542  $4,769
Total Costs            $22,261     $2,975     $3,228 $3,389  $3,559  $3,737  $3,924  $4,120  $4,326  $4,542  $4,769
Sales                      $0      $4,441     $4,818 $5,059  $5,312  $5,577  $5,856  $6,149  $6,457  $6,779  $7,118
Salaries                   $0      $1,238     $1,238 $1,238  $1,238  $1,238  $1,238  $1,238  $1,238  $1,238  $1,238
Total Benefits              $0     $5,679     $6,056 $6,297  $6,550  $6,816  $7,095  $7,388  $7,695  $8,018  $8,357
Net Benefits          -$22,261     $2,704     $2,828 $2,908  $2,991  $3,079  $3,171  $3,268  $3,369  $3,476  $3,588
NPV                  ($550.65)
IRR                        6%
Specific Assumptions
Recurrent costs as
% sales                  67%
Jobs created               1.0


Incremental Costs and Benefits (i.e., Difference)
Year                       0             1         2      3       4       5       6       7       8       9      10
Total Costs          $31,106      $6,041      $6,554 $6,882  $7,226  $7,587  $7,966  $8,365  $8,783  $9,222  $9,683
Total Benefits            $0     $11,531     $12,297 $12,786 $13,299 $13,838 $14,405 $14,999 $15,623 $16,279 $16,967
Net Benefits        -$31,106      $5,490      $5,743 $5,904  $6,073  $6,251  $6,438  $6,634  $6,840  $7,057  $7,284
NPV               $12,051.05
IRR                     15%




                                                             29

 ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES



(a) Task Team members



           Names                      Title            Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Ana Maria Sandi        Lead Education Specialist      ECSHD Task Team Leader
Mariana Moarcas        Operations Officer             ECSHD PAD Coordinator
Steen Jorgensen        Sector Director                 SDV   Quality Assurance

John Innes             Lead Operations Officer        ECSHD  Program Team
                                                             Leader

Evelyn Villatoro       Procurement Specialist          ECSPS Procurement


Bogdan Constantinescu  Sr. Financial Management              Financial
                       Specialist                      ECSPS Management

Rita Klees             Sr. Environmental Specialist   ECSSD  Environmental
                                                             Specialist
Irna Kichigina         Sr. Counsel                    LEGEC Legal Specialist
Raluca Banioti         Program Assistant              ECCRO Team Assistant
Jennifer Manghinang    Program Assistant              ECSHD Program Assistant

Supervision/ICR
Ana Maria Sandi        Lead Education Specialist      ECSHD Task Team Leader
Bogdan Constantin      Sr. Financial Management        ECSPSFinancial
Constantinescu         Specialist                           Management
Steen Lau Jorgensen    Sector Director                 SDV  Quality Assurance
Irina L. Kichigina     Sr. Counsel                    LEGEC Legal Specialist
Vladislav Krasikov     Sr Procurement Spec.            ECSPS Procurement
Mariana Doina Moarcas  Operations Officer             ECSHD Operations Support

Mark C. Woodward       Senior Social Development Spec ECSSD Principal Author
                                                            ICR




                                       30

(b) Staff Time and Cost


                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands
                              No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                       consultant costs)

Lending

  FY00                                 3                       9.33
  FY01                                28                      29.08
  FY02                                14                      32.31
  FY03                                                         0.35
  FY04                                                         0.00
  FY05                                                         0.00
  FY06                                                         0.00
  FY07                                                         0.00

                       Total:         45                      71.07
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                                         0.00
  FY01                                                         0.00
  FY02                                 2                       1.71
  FY03                                17                      51.61
  FY04                                25                      34.36
  FY05                                15                      25.57
  FY06                                16                      26.10
  FY07                                 9                      23.51

                       Total:         84                     162.86




                                  31

                            ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS


In 2006, a Romanian institute of social studies, surveys, marketing, and publicity was contracted
by RSDF to carry out a Beneficiary Assessment of RSDF´s activities. What follows is the
summary extracted from this report.

Summary

Between 2003-2005, RSDF funded a series of projects grouped in three large categories: Small
Rural Infrastructure (SRI), Income Generating Activities (IGA) and Community Based Social
Services (CBSS). The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of these projects at community
levels, as well as concerning the beneficiaries. The main dimensions evaluated can be grouped in
the three categories: poverty, community development and social capital. To be more precise, we
were interested to offer answers to the following general research questions:

     1. Have the lives of the beneficiaries of projects funded as part of SDF II ­ poor rural
     communities and disadvantaged groups ­ improved since RSDF' intervention?

     2. How have the social capital, civic involvement and local abilities evolved in the
     communities funded by RSDF?

     3. Has RSDF's intervention had an obvious impact on social inclusion at community level?

     4. Has RSDF's intervention been sustainable?

In order to respond to these questions an integrated research methodology was applied,
quantitative (survey) and qualitative (interview, focus group), sectional and quasi-experimental5,
applied to the more important categories of social actors somehow connected to RSDF projects
(villagers, local formal and informal leaders, members of CBOs, representatives of NGOs).

Outlines of results highlight two major dimensions: the impact of RSDF projects (in terms of
poverty, social capital and community development) and the evaluation of project implementation
(relevance, usefulness, satisfaction relative to results, inclusion, involvement, sustainability, etc.).

The Impact of RSDF projects

Following the implementation of the RSDF projects, significant positive changes were recorded
in the intervention group compared to the control group (SRI and IGA projects) for most
investigated issues. Significant positive evolutions were noticeable concerning levels of
satisfaction with living standards, access to food, health services, education, the number of
production activities and jobs, the possibility to generate income from a variety of different
activities has increased, the quality of roads, subjective satisfaction with utilities, service and
infrastructure have improved, infrastructure has developed (water supply, protection against
floods, the state of roads, the existence and state of public transport). In addition to these positive
evolutions directly addressed by RSDF projects, others have been measured through dimensions

5 In the SRI and IGA projects, the data were collected before the projects were implemented, but also after
they were completed. This was a quasi-experiment because the factors that were external to the intervention
were only partly controlled (by choosing a ,,twin community" for each community in the intervention
group).



                                                    32

indirectly connected to the projects (relative to these aspects, effects are somewhat less
pronounced generally speaking as compared to issues directly targeted by the projects). As a
result, social solidarity, social relations, the trust of inhabitants in various public officials (mayor,
local councillors, teachers, doctors and medical assistants, individuals of the same nationality, the
police, shopkeepers), declared availability for involvement in community projects, the level of
involvement in local governance, social inclusion of disadvantaged groups have all improved.

The experience with RSDF projects appears6 to have mobilized actors in these communities
towards exhibiting greater interest in other financing programmes. As a result, in localities with
RSDF projects (SRI and IGA), the percentage of situations in which applications have been
submitted by town halls for financing in the past three years has been around 90%, in localities
without such projects around 60%; in a similar way, two times as many leaders of RSDF
communities declare that organisations within the community, other than the town hall, have
applied for financing (approximately 60% compared to 34%). The same increase in interest for
financing programmes has characterised communities involved in CBSS projects.

54% of the beneficiaries of CBSS projects have declared that they enjoy the services received as
part of RSDF projects to this day. Over half of the leaders have declared that after the finalization
of the RSDF projects, individuals involved in their coordination and administration got involved
in other local projects (a quarter says this has not been the case). Compared to other types of
projects, the sustainability of CBSS projects is significantly more pronounced. According to
leaders, the experience with RSDF projects has rarely characterised other groups / organisations
(most do not know). Where there have been CBSS projects, local authorities have applied for
grants for certain social services to a significantly higher degree. Almost all town halls / local
councils have applied, and, respectively, at least one local organisation in 68% of localities.

Respondents (population or leaders) from the intervention group perceive a higher degree of
positive change in the past two years compared to both the total, and each dimension individually
(irrespective of considered dimension, the degree of positive changes is approximately three
times larger than that indicated in the control group). Moreover, the degree of positive evolutions
is directly associated with the specificities of the projects (the economic dimension for IGA
projects, infrastructure for SRI projects, access to services for CBSS projects). Change in other
analysed dimensions (social capital, involvement, involvement of disadvantaged groups, ecology)
is positive relative to all projects (more pronounced in communities with SRI projects). In
general, approximately half is associated with RSDF projects. Differences between leaders and
population are rather small, as well as those among dimensions, but again, the SRI projects
appear to have contributed most significantly among all other projects to positive perceptions.

Services received by beneficiaries in CBSS projects have improved the standards of live in the
majority of cases (subjective evaluations), and at least as important is the fact that positive
evolutions were not limited to the period these services were provided. Irrespective of the aspects
evaluated, at least one third of respondents appreciate that their lives improved while they
benefited from the serviced provided within the CBSS projects. The majority of the other
category state that the situation has not change and very few state that it has gotten worse (around
5%). Significant improvement is apparent in the following (over 50% declare this): access to
services (health, counselling, education), knowledge (hygiene, scholarship), the use of items of
personal hygiene, the quality, quantity and diversity of food, knowledge concerning ways of
problem solving (whom and how to address in order to solve their problems), relationships /

6 Only "appears" because we do not know what the initial level of interest was. Given the size of
differences, it is very likely, however, that this is the case.


                                                        33

acquaintances they can contact if in need of help, trust in non-governmental organizations, the
feeling of belonging (that they are not alone, that others care about them). The general impression
that comes forth from these data is that of an intervention with greater impact (at least at a
subjective level) regarding material aspects of living conditions, access to services and a feeling
of community. As concerns access to social services, on average, in half of the evaluations,
leaders indicate improvement over the past two years. Moreover, half of this improvement is
attributed to the CBSS projects. After the termination of projects, the beneficiaries' situation
appears to be the same as that during the implementation of the RSDF project, or even better.
Around 10% of beneficiaries point out a worsening of various dimensions after the finalization of
the RSDF projects. This happens to a significantly higher degree among respondents who do not
enjoy the services offered by the organisations anymore. Approximately one third of the leaders
indicate changes in relationships between social groups as a result of the implementation of CBSS
projects (most frequently mentioned are relationships between inhabitants and the town hall, the
poor and the others, Romanians and Roma).

Assessment of RSDF project implementation

The evaluations of the projects themselves indicate a positive image of most indicators, as well.
The fame and evaluation of RSDF, as well as those of the projects are good (6 in 10 citizens had
heard of RSDF; among these, three quarters know that RSDF has implemented a project in their
community (SRI and IGA); over 80% of those who know of the RSDF projects evaluate as
positive both their relevance, their usefulness, and the attained results. The values of these
indicators are higher in the case of SRI projects as compared to those of IGA projects. In
comparison with the citizens, leaders exhibit a higher degree of values slightly higher for
analysed indicators (notoriety of RSDF, notoriety of the project, involvement in the project,
evaluation of its usefulness, satisfaction with its results). The level of involvement in the
implementation of the RSDF projects was rather high among the population and their leaders
(higher among leaders), almost half of the villagers are aware of the project contributing with
money, materials or work (over 70% in case of leaders). The majority of respondents believe that
the RSDF projects have been a necessity, highlighting the transparency in decision-making and
finances. Again, a majority evaluates positively the individuals who coordinated the projects
(honest, serious, competent and well-intended). In general, social inclusion of disadvantaged
groups was rather an objective subordinated to efficiency (only the poor and women participated
to a larger extent), but the resulting benefits reached individuals of this category to a high degree,
as well. Relationships between various social groups have improved, especially the ones between
the inhabitants and the town hall, the poor and the rest of the rural community, the rich and the
rest of the community. There have also been negative effects associated with the projects, but
these were case-specific or weak (incongruence among people, dishonest gains from the project).
A part of those who were involved in the RSDF projects (15-20%) later got involved in other
local projects, or as a result of their experiences with the projects, in some villages new groups
got organized for the implementation of further local projects (around 15% of respondents,
villagers or leaders, say this).

Almost all beneficiaries of the CBSS projects believe that the received services were very useful
and as a result, declare to be pleased with them (leaders share their view). According to the
leaders, differences among those implementing the projects were few or inexistent (in equal
degree). All leaders share the opinion that had it not been for the involvement of the RSDF, these
projects would have not been possible, the contributions of the community being significantly
less important than that of RSDF (at the same time, over half of the leaders believe that members
of the community got involved too little in the CBSS projects). In over 80% of cases, the image
of the individuals from organisations that completed the RSDF projects (individuals with whom



                                                  34

the beneficiaries had contact) came through as a positive one (honest, serious, competent and
well-intended, attentive at problems / needs of the beneficiaries, helpful to these). The
involvement of beneficiaries in these projects was relatively high. Around half of respondents say
that the organisations who implemented the projects consulted them on various aspects (one third
declares they had not been consulted at all). The beneficiaries' opinion was in most cases asked
frequently, irrespective of moment or issue (from the beginning throughout the project regarding
important aspects). Not only were beneficiaries' opinions asked for frequently, but they were also
taken into consideration (at least this is what beneficiaries declare). On the other hand, however,
the number of those who personally participated in the decision-making during the
implementation is somewhat smaller (around one fourth much / very much, another quarter to a
certain extent, and one third little / very little). Almost half of the respondents know of a
representative of the beneficiaries who keeps in touch with the organisations (19% say these
persons did not exist). In over 50% of the cases, beneficiaries were invited to meetings
concerning project management, and they did go most of the times. The level of involvement of
various disadvantaged groups within the community in the project implementation varies to a
great extent (very high for women and the poor; relatively less for other categories: ethnic
minorities, elderly, disabled people). The situation is similar in the case of groups who benefited
from the projects. According to opinions expressed by beneficiaries, cases of positive or negative
discrimination are very rare. Compared to services / aid received as part of various projects, the
RSDF projects beneficiaries believe that they have been more useful and benefits higher.
Compared to the image of other organisations, the organisations that implemented the RSDF
project is also much better seen by beneficiaries (more serious, better organised, more inclined to
take into account the beneficiaries' opinions, involved them in the actual implementation to a
higher degree). Moreover, the trust between beneficiaries and the representatives of the
organisations proved to be higher and the misunderstandings among beneficiaries lower.




                                                 35

       ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS


None.




                             36

                           ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR

A. Assessment of the Project Objectives and Design

I. Assessment of the project objectives

The development objectives of SDF II were similar to the objectives of the first phase: to
contribute to poverty alleviation and community-driven development through (1) improving the
livelihood of project beneficiaries from poor rural communities and disadvantaged groups and (2)
promoting social capital enhancement and civic engagement among project beneficiaries (PAD,
2001).

To achieve these objectives, RSDF aimed at: (1) constructing and rehabilitating small
infrastructure works in poor rural communities; (2) increasing the access of disadvantaged groups
to community social services; (3) improving incomes and creating employment opportunities for
beneficiaries; (4) enhancing the organizational ability of poor rural communities, local authorities
and NGOs in a participative approach to the problems of disadvantaged social categories; (5)
enhancing the self-confidence as well as the trust in institutions and authorities and in the other
members of the community. (RSDF Operational Manual, 2002)

Under SDF II ­ built on the experiences acquired during the implementation of the first phase ­ a
greater emphasis was put on output and impact indicators, a fact reflected in the structure and
content of the key performance indicators agreed with the IBRD: (1) 80% level of satisfaction
among project beneficiaries; (2) level of trust within and outside communities is increased (3)
more than 250 small infrastructure sub-projects financed in poor rural communities (4) more than
60 community based social services established (5) more than 25 sub-projects fixed and/ or
innovative sub-projects implemented (6) 10% of sub-projects address poor women' s issues (6)
evidence of increased use of CDD approaches (7) cost/ effectiveness of RSDF financed activities
is higher than that of activities financed from other sources etc.

As the MIS and project monitoring reports reveal almost all the key performance indicators of the
project have been reached or surpassed (with two exceptions related to follow-up and IGA sub-
projects, explained below). On the whole, 285 poor communities have received grants for SRI
sub-projects, 70 for CBSS sub-projects, 65 for IGA sub-projects and 16 for follow-up/ innovative
sub-projects. The data collected and/or processed by the M&E unit ­ through quantitative
surveys, case studies or secondary data analyses ­ uncover a significant impact of these sub-
projects at community level (increased access to physical and social infrastructure, opportunities
for alternative sources of income created, local development initiatives multiplied, resources
channeled to poorest communities and benefits distributed to excluded social categories, etc.).

There were also initiatives that failed, but rather isolated and context-related; 34 approved
subprojects were annulled either during running or before signing, out of which 19 (~56%) were
IGA subprojects, reflecting the difficulties a CBO had to cope with to turn into an eligible legal
entity (consumption cooperative, agricultural company or association) ­ a process that could take
up to one year. That's why under current SDSMC program a CBO may turn into other legal
entities, including a "Limited Responsibility Society".

Though local authorities are still perceived by the rural population as the main agents of local
development ­ as the data from Rural Eurobarometer (2006) suggests ­ the RSDF financed
communities moved to a different stage of development. The external evaluations (Gallup 2004,



                                                  37

Metromedia 2006), which though not constructing and computing a social capital index, indicate
an unquestionable increase in community potential to implement local development projects, as
well as a higher level of cooperation and trust in and between community members and other
local actors (mayor, councilors, teachers, doctors etc) - for further details, see Annex 1

SDF has played a major role in spreading community-oriented approaches to local development.
Its success at local level made RSDF an important partner for implementing other CDD-type
projects: (1) the "Community Window" of the Rural Development Project; (2) the Social
Development Scheme for Mining Communities (SDSMC); (3) the Priority Intervention Program
within the Social Inclusion Project. Other organizations incorporated SDF's concept or parts of it
and used them in other large scale projects (e.g., PHARE 2002, Small Grants Scheme under
"Mine Closure, Environmental and Socio-Economic Regeneration Project").

II. Assessment of the Project Design

1. Design of Objectives

The major components of SDF II, reflecting the project objectives, were as follows:

        RSDF Sub-projects. The project gave grants to subprojects prepared by recipients in poor
        rural communities and disadvantaged groups for: small rural infrastructure - SRI,
        community-based social services ­ CSS and income generating activities IGA (similar to
        SDF I), follow-up and community capacity building activities (specific for SDF II).
        Knowledge Sharing and Partnership Building. This component consisted of three areas
        of activities including: (1) information, education and communication activities, similar
        to SDF I, (2) building "bridging" social capital by creating networks of "graduating"
        Community Based Organizations (CBOs) and facilitating continuous partnership between
        local authorities and CBOs, especially in the area of sustainability and (3) building
        linkages with other national poverty reduction agencies and with projects with a similar
        approach in the region, as activities specific for SDF II.
        Institutional Strengthening. This component included 3 new categories of institutional
        development endeavors: (1) the establishment of 2 decentralized regional units - specific
        for SDF II, (2) publishing the RSDF newsletter, and (3) establishing of a monitoring and
        evaluation unit - specific for SDF II.

On the whole, about 91% from the financial resource available went to Sub-project financing,
8.5% to Institutional strengthening and 0.5% to Knowledge Sharing and Partnership Building.
As for the IBRD and the Romanian Government financial effort, the percents are almost identical.
Regarding the DFID contribution (a two year project financed by the Department for
International Development of the United Kingdom), it was channeled entirely towards training,
consultancy and technical assistance.

Similar to SDF I, sub-projects and community capacity building received the most important
share of the financial effort of the IBRD and the Romanian Government. The huge number of
applications received so far [4.021, out of which 1177 (~29%) under SDF II] demonstrate that
RSDF's concept was designed properly, taking into account the peculiarity of poor villages and
disadvantaged social categories (see also Annex 2).

Although applications came from all over the country, the financed sub-projects under SDF II are
concentrated in remote and isolated rural areas, as indicated by the data below:



                                                 38

                                        Sub-projects localization                              Total
             Urban/village belonging to a          Central village        Peripheral/ semi-
                 city (sat apartinator)        (sat centru de comuna)    peripheral village
   SRI                     7                             28                     253             288
  IGA                      2                             20                      53             75
 CBSS                      50                            20                       3             73
  Total                    59                            68                     309             436

The fact that most of the grantee communities are located at the villages' periphery (~71%) is due
to not only the way poverty grid worked, but also the RSDF' strategy to finance the poorest of the
poor applicants. Still, though local authorities became an eligible applicant for CBSS sub-projects
under SDF II, the rate of applications submitted from peripheral villages was very low. It seems
that a social service was not perceived as a priority by a local community lacking basic
infrastructure facilities.

It would be worth mentioning that seven villages that had implemented RSDF sub-projects
reached the final stage of a contest named "Romanian Village - European Village", organized by
the EU Delegation. By wining the title of "European Village", they proved that RSDF approach
could be a useful tool to leave behind passivity and stimulate local development initiatives.

Concerning the Information, Education and Communication (IEC) strategy under SDF II, it was
focused on highlighting the community-oriented development philosophy and clarifying the
RSDF procedures. Therefore, new types of target population were included: public authorities,
business communities, civil society representatives. Relevant information and documents were
provided through meetings, seminars, conferences, newspapers, specialized magazines, electronic
publications as well as RSDF' web site, newsletters and annual reports.

According to the data provided by the Barometer "European values in Romanian villages" (OSF,
2005), a significant percent (32%) of the entire rural population heard about RSDF at that time.
Anyway, RSDF has become probably the most visible institution using a community-oriented
approach. Obviously, RSDF's visibility is higher in financed communities (58%) and much
higher among their leaders (90%), in comparison to the non-financed communities (23% and
70%, correspondingly) ­ as revealed by the Metro Media assessment (2006) concerning the SDF
II project.

It should also be mentioned that under SDF II, RSDF has strengthened and expanded its
membership in different bodies that deal with poverty reduction and/or community development:
Romanian Donors Forum, National Antipoverty Committee (CASPIS), Community Development
Organizations Network (RuralNet), Europe and Central Asia Regional Network of Social
Investment Funds (ECANet). In cooperation with CASPIS, a significant part of the IEC campaign
was targeted at local, regional and national levels, in order to support the preparation of county
strategies and plans for poverty alleviation and social inclusion. A content-analysis of these plans
carried out by the M&E unit (2005), indicated that county authorities had become more open to
participative-type approach to local development; their medium term strategies containing a large
amount of references to RSDF and its sub-projects.

Regarding networking activities, benefiting fromthe RSDF's branches support and following
many field visits carried out by the RSDF's facilitators (240) and periodical assessments made by
the M&E unit, 8 networks were created, 6 of them being still functioning at the SDF II closing
date - two for small rural infrastructure sub-project beneficiaries; three for income generating



                                                  39

activities beneficiaries and one for community social services beneficiaries. At least six working
seminars were organized by the RSDF for each network. Within limited funds, communities were
helped to share experience, find solutions, associate. RSDF personnel, experts and local authority
representatives were invited in order to meet networks' members expressed needs of support.
Communities were advised on different issues related to sustainability and maintenance of the
sub-projects' outputs, how to access additional resources from EU funds, micro-credits, etc. In
addition, three networks turned into legal entities. To be more specific, an apiculture network
established an association and received a grant for an RSDF innovative sub-project. The sun
flower oil network, inspired by the success of the bee-keeping network, decided to set up a
similar association and search for financial resources in the field of bio-fuel production. The third
network, comprising water supply sub-projects, changed its status in order to administrate easily
the water supply systems.

2. Design of Subprojects Menu

As mentioned earlier, four major types of sub-projects were included in the sub-projects menu:
SRI, IGA, CBSS and follow up sub-projects. The last category was divided in two clusters: (1)
subprojects for fixing small unforeseen technical problems/ force majeure under subprojects
already financed by RSDF, and (2) innovative sub-projects.

Generally speaking, there was an open submenu for each sub-project type, comprising only
suggestions of eligible projects and a negative menu of projects that could not be financed (e.g.
household connection to infrastructure works, rehabilitation works on privately own land, tobacco
processing, production of alcoholic beverages, collection of waste from the households). In
comparison to SDF I, certain types of projects were added explicitly, for instance vulnerable
groups, youth at risk, young Roma and neighborhood gangs were mentioned clearly as potential
target categories for CBSS sub-projects. For the SRI sub-projects priority was given to sub-
projects submitted by isolated communities addressing the rehabilitation of access roads to
commune center or other relevant points (e.g., school, market, medical center) instead of the
rehabilitation of roads located mainly within villages (ulite).

The majority of applications received referred to small rural infrastructure sub-projects (52.2%),
out of which 80.4% focused on rural roads rehabilitation, 9.7 % referred to water supply systems
and 6.3% to community centers. First and foremost the communities' choices reflected the
structure of poverty in rural areas and the lack of other development programs or projects in the
targeted regions. Many communities financed by the RSDF had difficulties to find a specialized
firm to make a (pre)feasibility study and even to procure a contractor, which means that
constructions firms or other actors did not succeed in manipulating their choices.

The percentage of CBSS submitted applications was also high (449 - 38.1%), but in order to
channel resources to the poorest communities and avoid duplicating services provided by other
state bodies, only 70 sub-projects (15.5%) were financed ­ mainly day care centers (30),
temporary shelters - for orphan/ abandoned children, adults with disabilities, youth coming from
state-care institutions etc (9), home care for elderly people (9), information and counseling
centers (6). It should also be mentioned the poor technical consistency (ambiguous plans, unclear
objectives and results) and low sustainability (weak medium and long term commitment from
local authorities to cover certain costs, local authorities' distrust in the opportunities of sub-
projects addressing neighborhoods gangs, lack of available spaces especially in rural areas) of
many social services applications rejected. In spite of a very slow start, several seminars were
organized (with DFID support) for NGOs lacking experience in dealing with vulnerable groups
and neighborhood gangs, and a few projects of this type were gradually approved.


                                                40

As for the IGA sub-projects, the small number of applications is correlated mainly with the lack
of entrepreneurial skills and infrastructure facilities in poor rural areas. It is worth mentioning
that, in comparison to SDF I, the number of applications for milk processing decreased while the
number for community bakeries (13), sun flower seed processing units (10), mills and apiculture
increased. The shift was generated mainly by the constraints imposed by the new quality,
consumer and environment protection standards which could not be met by the poor communities
with the support of relatively low grants.

In fact, the majority of IGA subprojects (and a non-negligible percent of SRI sub-projects) was
affected by either the changes in regulations and standards in view of EU integration or other
unforeseen variables (e.g., a much lower exchange rate, unexpected costs) ­ as is suggested by
the fact that a large amount of IGA-type sub-projects needed extra-money:

                                                        SRI               IGA              CBSS
           Initial grant ceiling (USD)                75000              20.000           20.000
 Average grant per type of sub-project (USD)          69.215             25.511           15.169
   % sub-projects needing more money than             25.6%              56.9%             1.4%
                 initially agreed

In such a context, it was not possible to achieve the benchmarks related to IGA sub-projects and
follow-up ones. Last but not the least, it was a logical measure taken by the RSDF under SDF II
to increase the grant ceiling in the case of IGA sub-projects from USD 20.000 to USD 40.000.

There are also other reasons for financing fewer than planned follow-up projects. Being unusual
and quite complex, at least the innovative ones, even experienced communities had difficulties
submitting eligible projects. On the whole, 37 applications were received, out of which 16 were
financed (8 innovative projects, 8 for fixing unforeseen technical problems), most of them being
IGA-type projects (10).

Initially, the innovative component aimed at setting up garbage pits in rural areas. Due to the
legal constraints, this type of activity could not be financed. Instead, the innovative sub-projects
focused mainly on environment protection issues. Explicitly, one platform for collecting and
depositing garbage was set up by a community based organization (CBO). Two non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) dealt with collecting and sorting waste as well as developing
educational campaigns on environment protection. Other innovative sub-projects focused on
Roma related issues (training in construction and building materials were provided to repair their
houses; a cultural center was established to promote Roma traditional handicrafts). A former IGA
project successfully operating a rural bakery established a sports and cultural center where
children learn foreign languages and computer skills and play indoor sports. Last but not the least,
eight apiculture projects established an association and procured equipment for packing honey
supplied by all the members of the new association. All innovative sub-projects were
implemented successfully in partnership with local authorities.

3. Design of Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

Incorporating the experience gained during the first phase, the SDF II project: (1) continued
building up the capacity of poor rural communities, and (2) let the communities be in charge of
sub-project design and implementation (including procurement and contracting), but (3)
intensified the supervision activities and technical assistance to avoid delays in implementation
and help communities understand better RSDF's concept and revised procedures, (4) adjusted the



                                                 41

poverty grid and tried to allocate the available financial resources to the poorest communities
and/or disadvantaged ethnic minorities7, (5) continued facilitating the poorest villages from the
poorest counties to increase their access to RSDF sub-projects, adding remedial and network
facilitation, (6) simplified the application forms and appraisal documents, (7) continued
improving the monitoring and evaluation system, and (8) put more emphasis on building social
capital by using a specific instrument ­ Social Capital, Anti-Poverty and Social Inclusion
(SCAPSI) ­ in the appraisal, supervision and assessment processes,,(9) multiplied the post-
implementation support, adding new types of action such as post-implementation supervision and
post-implementation facilitation.

The community role in a RSDF project has remained the same as under SDF I: (1) to assess its
poverty/development status and prioritize community needs; (2) to collaborate with local
authorities in filling in the application form; (3) to manage the project' activities (technical &
financial); (4) to contribute with resources (5) to monitor regularly how the project is progressing;
and (6) to contribute to projects' maintenance and establish a partnership with local authorities
(especially within SRI sub-projects).

At the institutional level, benefiting from DFID support (as mentioned earlier), several measures
were taken by the RSDF in the new context.

To improve its capacity and to respond flexibly to communities' needs of support, steps were
taken further towards decentralization. Two regional branches were established: in Iasi (2002)
and Alba Iulia (2004) ­ covering the Eastern, Central and Western parts of Romania. Facilitation,
information campaigns, sub-projects monitoring, networking activities and workshops have been
organized or supported by the two branches which significantly improved the RSDF's efficiency
in addressing and solving the problems faced by the communities.

To improve the monitoring and evaluation system, besides upgrading the Management
Information System (MIS) with new indicators, procedures and facilities (e.g., indicators related
to the quality of works and services, sustainability and social capital, new facilities of graphical
and statistical processing, access via Internet for the RSDF's branches and supervisors), a
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E) was established (2002). Studies, reports and documents
on different topics (policy papers, impact assessments, case studies, guides or other practical
instruments) were produced and are being used by RSDF management in the decision process. It
also contracted out studies, which were distributed to interested parties.

To prevent any political interference and have a distinct profile in the field of community
development, a specific IEC strategy was designed, as mentioned before. The RSDF Steering
Committee, including representatives of both political bodies and civil society strengthened its
autonomy and ensured the coherence with other sectoral policies.

4. Design of the Legal Framework

The legal framework for RSDF's activity is provided the Law No.129/1998 on RSDF
establishment, organization and operation, which established the RSDF as a public interest-
oriented, not for profit organization, acting under the authority of the Romanian Government.


7 About 21% of the sub-projects financed under SDF II addressed the needs of communities with a
significant Roma population. On the whole, 27% of the grantee communities are multi-ethnic.




                                                  42

The experience showed the necessity for clarifying some of the stipulations in the RSDF
establishing Law 129/1998, as well as the necessity for defining some aspects remained unsettled
in the initial text of the Law.

Therefore, the Law No.129/1998 was amended in 2001, 2002, 2004 and 2006 with regards to the
prolongation of the RSDF functioning period, increases in the Romanian Government's
contribution, as well as the possibility for RSDF to undertake various paid activities as an
institution providing consultancies in order to ensure self-sustainability, enlarging eligible
beneficiary categories, clarifying the definition of the project maintenance committee and
clarifying the alternatives for the legal status of the Community Based Organizations
implementing income generating activities.

Amendments brought about improvement of RSDF's legal status and enabled the Fund to
consolidate its position as implementing agency for programs/ projects that use a community-
driven development approach.

Reallocations in the Loan Agreement initial budget and modification of the percentage of
expenditures for certain budget categories.

In 2005, the RSDF identified the necessity to reallocate funds within the initial budget of the
Loan Agreement. Due to the large number of sub-projects and to the increase of the grant size for
a significant number of sub-projects, more funds were needed for consultancy services
(supervision activities).

Following IBRD approval, this reallocation was turned into a Government Decision that modified
the Loan Agreement accordingly.

B. Assessment of the Project Implementation and Operation Experience

Besides the outputs mentioned previously, it should be added:

· 699 community groups new created
· 23 communities benefited from initial facilitation, and 29 communities from remedial
    facilitation
· 819 sub-projects benefited from the RSDF's appraisers' assistance during field evaluations
    (69.5% of the applications received, in comparison to 39.6% under SDF I)
· 46 training sessions were organised for about 1100 community leaders
· 4407 supervision visits carried out during sub-projects implementation, divided as follows:

                                    SRI                IGA                CBSS             Total
 No. of visits under SDF II        3019                966                 422             4407
   Average value per sub-          10.48              12.88               5.78             10.1
    projects under SDF II
 Average value under SDF I          6.83               5.16               3.66             5.98

The improved design of implementation arrangements proved to have a positive impact both at
the community and institutional levels.

The initial facilitation ­ designed to help the poorest communities have access to RSDF grants ­
had covered nine poorest counties (Botosani, Calarasi, Giurgiu, Gorj, Hunedoara, Ialomita,
Mehedinti, Olt and Vaslui). Most of the villages facilitated either were identified under SDF I or


                                                 43

had submitted non-eligible sub-projects in the previous rounds. A few of them asked explicitly
for help sending a letter to the RSDF. It should be stated that there was not a facilitation strategy
limited to SDF II, but a coherent one covering not only the SDF I and SDF II projects, but also
CEB's parallel financing project (Council of Europe Development Bank). Therefore, there were
many communities facilitated under SDF I or CEB, which received grants under SDF II.

The higher emphasis put on field appraisal lead to better targeting of poor communities, approval
of subprojects representing real priorities of communities, with low technical and social risks, and
more sustainable. Using more appropriate appraisal tools, only subprojects with low/ negligible
risks were approved, as well as those having quality indicators rating "good" and "very good".

The intensification of the supervision activities had positive effects. Only 2 sub-projects had
delays in execution (> 60 days). Such an indicator shows that RSDF's supervisors really helped
communities correct deficient financial management or procurement processes, improved leaders'
skills to coordinate projects transparently and stimulate local participation ­ to mention just a
few, but the most widespread problems at sub-project start-up.

In several cases the supervisors' support was not enough, so that remedial facilitation was
required to solve problems such as: project capture by local authorities or other local elites,
fluctuations at the level of Project Management Committee (PMC), weak local participation,
strong conflicts between local authorities and community. Most of the remedial facilitations were
successful; however, in few communities the achievements were not as expected, a fact that made
RSDF increase the number of days allocated to remedial facilitation from 5 to 10.

Sustainability of the sub-projects

· 224 communities financed both under SDF I and SDF II benefited from post-implementation
    supervision
· 83 communities were assisted through post-implementation facilitation
· partnerships between local authorities and communities were established in the case of all
    SRI sub-projects to ensure project maintenance
· networking strategies and activities were focused mainly on sustainability related issues

According to the data collected during post-implementation by the RSDF's supervisors, 92%
(129 from 140) of the SRI sub-projects were fully functional, as compared to 30% (11 from 37)
of IGA sub-projects and 66% of CBSS sub-projects (31 from 47). There were also differences
between the projects belonging to the same category. For instance, the IGA projects dealing with
sun flower seed processing, mills or milk were operating at 30%-60% of their capacity due to the
seasonal character of the supply of raw materials. Rural bakeries, bee keeping, local peasant
markets, mushroom growing, greenhouses, wood processing sub-projects were operating at
higher capacity at the date of supervision.

Such data, though partial, confirmed the results of the impact assessment studies. Having a good
maintenance plan (e.g., a project maintenance committee, a good business plan) meant a higher
probability of sub-project sustainability. The high rate of SRI projects in good state after years
from the closing date is not by chance. All SRI subprojects had to have (and they had) a
partnership between community and local authorities, and a Project Management Committee -
usually made up of the same leaders that administrated the sub-project implementation.




                                                 44

The RSDF sub-projects are implemented at lower costs than comparable non-RSDF financed sub-
projects (in terms of works execution costs, as well as technical design and site supervision
costs). For example, a cost-effectiveness analysis of the RSDF small infrastructure sub-projects
was carried out in 2006 by an external consultant. The analysis compared costs per unit of the
rural roads rehabilitated by RSDF with the ones under the Rural Development Program and
SAPARD. The analysis revealed that the cost per unit of the RSDF rural roads is lower than the
ones recorded under the other two Programs. Also, RSDF rural roads recorded a better cost per
duration average indicator. One should mention that the rehabilitation of the RSDF rural roads is
based on a simple technical solution which is appropriate for the roads situated in small and
isolated communities.

Undoubtedly, the RSDF has improved its performances under SDF II as compared to SDF I. The
RSDF MIS is a fully functional tool providing all necessary data both on the SDF II sub-projects,
but also on activities financed under other loans (the Council of Europe Development Bank -
CEB, the Rural Development Project - RDP, the Social Development Scheme for Mining
Communities - SDMC). Still, the multiple mechanisms of support, a better monitoring and
evaluation system, clearer and more transparent procedure ­ to mention just a few attributes ­
help; RSDF ensure not only its sustainability but also the sustainability of the sub-projects
financed (see in the annex the beneficiaries' responses reffering to the RSDF performance).

C. Evaluation of performances and lessons learned

Major lessons learned, that may be relevant in the future would be:

 · There is demonstrated potential in poor communities for civic engagement. Community
     empowerment can go beyond needs identification and participation in problem solving;
     members of the community who learned how to get out of passivity and participate in
     community projects become more engaged in civic activities.

 · The Fund's approach had an important contribution to raising authorities' awareness of
     community driven development. The risk of local authorities taking advantage of the
     opportunities created through sub-project financing was minimized by the adoption of
     transparent eligibility criteria and broad promotion campaigns that increased both
     communities' and local authorities' understanding of the RSDF participatory and partnership
     approach.

 · Rural communities were mainly interested in small infrastructure projects, most of the
     applications coming from (semi)peripheral villages that are often `ignored' by local
     authorities. Local development strategies, made and assumed by the local stakeholders
     themselves, can be a useful tool to minimize the risk of a project not being supported by
     local authorities.

 · `Fractured' and isolated communities do not believe in community projects and tend to have
     a weaker capacity in absorbing funds ­ therefore they need specific support: community
     facilitation, training, sustained consultancy services ­ before, during and after project
     implementation.

 · A smaller-scale project facilitates a larger-scale one ­ at commune level, association of
     communes, partnership between different entrepreneurs from a region, etc. Villages that




                                                45

     implemented RSDF sub-projects have proved ­ and will probably have- a stronger capacity
     in applying for other funds.

 · Simple and uniform rules and procedures increase sub-projects' impact, help targeting better
     the poor communities.

 · The new category of sub-projects introduced in the sub-projects menu for financing
     innovative measures was meant to solve various problems such as environmental ones.
     Successful implementation of the innovative sub-projects by the graduated communities
     demonstrated that they are more active and cooperate better with local authorities. It would
     be good for RSDF to get additional funding to be able to continue financing such new
     projects with good potential to be replicated.

 · Most of the community-based organizations had difficulties, in the case of IGA sub-projects,
     to turn into eligible legal entities. Letting them choose between the existing legal
     possibilities proved to be a better alternative, that not only shortened the time needed, but
     also facilitated easier access to credits or other development opportunities.

 · The grant ceiling for income generating activities proved to be inappropriate. As a matter of
     fact, it was increased to USD 40,000. Means of transportation were included among eligible
     cost in order to improve the sustainability of income generating activities implemented in
     isolated areas. Beneficiaries' contributions should include cash in order to stimulate
     involvement and increase responsibility during sub-project implementation and in
     maintaining its outcomes.

 · Networking activities organized between communities, even if slow at the beginning, proved
     useful in ensuring sub-project outcomes sustainability. It would be good for RSDF to get
     additional funding to continue financing such activities.

D. Evaluation of the Performance by the Bank, Co financiers, or other Partners

The IBRD

The conclusions and recommendations of the periodic supervision missions carried out by the
World Bank, applied by the RSDF management, contributed to a better organization of the
activity and the strengthening of its team.

The Bank's timely response to the assistance requests expressed by RSDF represented a real
support in the case of the reallocation of funds within the Loan Agreement initial budget, as well
as on any occasion when support was needed.

RSDF was fully recognized by IBRD as a well performing, highly innovative institution.

Other stakeholders

Different kinds of stakeholders ­ at local, regional or national level, either dealing with
community-oriented projects or not ­ believe that the RSDF approach has several advantages in
comparison to their own strategies: (1) development of social capital; (2) holding the community
accountable ­ people become aware the objectives are theirs and they feel ownership; (3) a valid
identification of local needs; (4) sustainability of the initiative groups (5) no political involvement



                                                   46

through setting up the initiative groups in the community; (6) institutional capacity in the
community ­ the community learns to organize itself, to use its resources and to be active; (7)
better sustainability of the projects as compared to those in other development programs
(MetroMedia Transilvania, 2006)

Other organizations/ public institutions

Annual audits performed by international specialized organizations as well as the controls of the
Romanian Court of Accounts certified that RSDF operated in accordance with the current
legislation, its operational manual and procedures and that it has good records.

E. Proposed Arrangements for Future Project Operations

RSDF has been quite active in shaping its future. A seminar for strategic planning was organized
that highlighted several institutional development options, as follows:
    · The option according to which RSDF would primarily have a role in the initiation and
         implementation of governmental strategies (it would act like a government agency);
    · The option according to which RSDF would be a consultancy provider;
    · The option according to which RSDF would act as a civil society actor by facilitating
         social development.
The three options are not disjointed as they do not exclude each other.

The organization participated in several meetings organized by the Ministry of Labor, Ministry of
Agriculture, non-governmental organizations and networks (such as Rural Net) aimed at
strengthening Romania's capacity to use EU funds. Given its unique experience and good record,
RSDF is in a good position to be involved in activities related to accessing EU funds, particularly
for Human Resources Development and Rural Development. RSDF engaged in an active
dialogue with the Ministry of Labor concerning the SOP HRD in general and the development of
human resources and social capital in rural areas in particular.

RSDF continues to implement activities financed through the Social Development Scheme for
Mining Communities (SDSMC). RSDF will implement one component of the Social Inclusion
Project (Priority Interventions Program). In addition, RSDF together with a Roma NGO won a
grant from the Roma Educational Fund for facilitation activities in Roma Communities.

On the other hand, RSDF still has a large amount of financial requests for grants received from
small, poor isolated communities saved in its data base; unfortunately, RSDF funds were
insufficient to address them too and EU structural funds do not specifically target poor areas.
Implicitly, an application for funding was submitted to the Council of Europe Development Bank
(CEB) in order for the RSDF to be able to implement SDF Project III addressing the above
mentioned communities and further using community-driven development mechanisms.




                                                47

    ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS

N.B. The following comments were received from the DfID contractor who worked with RSDF
in the context of the DfID co-financing.


The ICR captures well the actual approach of RSDF and the context within which it has operated.
From a western perspective, and as pointed out in the ICR, RSDF had bureaucratic procedures
which sometimes impacted negatively not only on applicants but on prospective applicants.
However, the ICR acknowledges the potential vulnerability for RSDF within the political context
in Romania if it had been seen to be lax with its financial systems and controls. The costs of the
bureaucratic approach were flexibility and to some extent creativity in approach, for example
through decentralisation and power sharing. However, the benefits were clearly a steady increase
in the credibility of RSDF and its work amongst partners and political stakeholders, and an ability
to show positive results. CDD as developed by RSDF has been pioneering work in Romania, and
it is important not to underestimate the opposition and potential detractors. Indeed, the Director
of the Romanian Anti-Poverty Commission, a supporter of a centralist approach to poverty
alleviation, was for a long time a critic of RSDF's approach for concentrating too much on the
small picture. For an organisation that had to become an expert in walking on eggshells, it would
have needed an external influence for RSDF to become more integrated in national strategy. In
fact, whilst SDF I and SDF II were in operation, I saw little evidence of improvement in terms of
national commitment or action to address poverty reduction. RSDF was at the forefront of
practical action, and where other initiatives were taken, they almost invariably stemmed from
external funder strategies and/or NGOs. The criticism of focusing on the small picture was valid,
but RSDF was never charged with the responsibility for organising the big picture - that
responsibility lay with national and local governments, together with major funders. In reality,
while the major players were trying to press the Government to establish Public Administration
Reform and National Strategies, RSDF was channeling funds to the people who needed them
most.

I did see an increase in the willingness of RSDF to be open and to work more cooperatively with
NGOs and other bodies. An aspect of the political legacy left after 1989, possibly still prevalent,
was a sense of NGOs being in competition with each other, far more than in the west. This
sometimes led to a reluctance to share practice and materials, and therefore was a constraint on
potential capacity-building and networking.         It is understandable however, because despite
increased requests for RSDF to take on more responsibility for devolving funds, those within
RSDF never expressed confidence about the future of the organisation and its work. There was
always a sense that it could be wiped away at any moment. This may have been a false
perception, but it was there and sometimes led to an insularity in their approach.

Most encouraging in the ICR is the existence of an exit strategy, especially in relation to EU
Structural Funds. The future emphasis for accessing these funds is partnerships, which is why the
point I made in my last paragraph is important. RSDF has expertise and experience that are
needed by Romania, which will struggle to access the funds to which it is entitled. Procurement
and partnerships will be key issues. RSDF is a potential advisor and consultant, as well as being
a key stakeholder in future community development. It will need, however to become even more
flexible if its resources are to be used as effectively as possible.




                                                   48

                          ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

      Author(s)                         Title of study           Year of   Type of      Availab
                                                                 publica   analysis      le in
                                                                  tion                  English
    D.Sandu (coord)              The practice of community        2007   Process&imp      No
C. Câmpean, L. Marina,                   development                     act evaluation
   M. Peter, V. oflu
MetroMedia Transilvania        Beneficiaries and Institutional    2006      Impact       Yes
                                         Assessment                       evaluation
      PROMESO                RSDF: development perspectives       2006   Institutional   Yes
                                                                         development
                                                                          evaluation
      P. Gughea             Study and module design for RSDF      2006       Cost-        No
                              financed rural road rehabilitation         effectiveness
                               subproject under SDF program                 analysis
         Gallup              Assessment of the impact of RSDF     2004      Impact       Yes
                                           projects                       assessment
In-house studies (selection)
       L. Marina               Supportive networks for Roma       2006    Case study      No
                                            people
       L. Marina                    The challenges to the         2005      Impact        No
                                  decentralization process                assessment
       V. Soflu             Role, adjustments and effect of the   2005      Impact        No
                                 initial facilitation process             assessment
       L. Marina            Rural entrepreneurship under poverty  2005    Case study      No
                                          conditions
       L. Marina                Community development and         2005    Case study      No
                            modernization through a SRI project
 C.Câmpean, V.oflu           The spreading of the participative   2005      Impact        No
                               approach to local development              assessment
      C.Câmpean             The appraisal and supervision of the  2005      Impact        No
                            sub-projects financed by the RSDF ­           assessment
                              difficulties and needs of support
      C.Câmpean                  RSDF contribution to the         2005      Impact        No
                                implementation of the Rural               assessment
                                    Development Project
      C.Câmpean               Social capital development in the   2005      Impact        No
                             communities that benefit by RSDF             evaluation
                                           support
       L.Marina             Economic or ecologic in community     2005    Case Study      No
                                         development
       L. Marina                The irradiation of community      2005    Case study      No
                                development and modernity


       L. Marina             The sustainability of the home care  2005    Case study      No
                                services for the poor elderly
 C.Câmpean, V.oflu                Connecting communities          2004      Process       No
                                                                          evaluation
       V. Soflu              "They too belong to us": a day care  2004    Case study     Yes
                            centre in a former mining community
       L. Marina                 Recommendations on the           2004   Policy paper     No
                             improvement of the RSDF poverty
                                       reduction policy



                                                      49

Author(s)               Title of study               Year of  Type of     Availab
                                                     publica  analysis     le in
                                                      tion                English
C.Câmpean    Business development or community        2004   Case study     No
                        development?
V. Soflu        A barometer of the small rural        2004     Impact       No
             infrastructure projects' sustainability         assessment
C.Câmpean       Sustainable development of the        2004     Impact       No
             community social services network -             assessment
                    from intention to reality
V. Soflu     Remedial facilitation. A diagnosis of    2004    Process       No
                    the RSDF intervention                    evaluation
C.Câmpean    Sustainable development of the poor      2004     Impact       No
             rural communities - from intention to           assessment
                            reality
E.Pâslaru           RSDF decentralization             2003    Process      Yes
                                                             assessment
C.Câmpean            The Crisis of the De-            2003   Case study    Yes
                      institutionalization
C.Câmpean    RSDF - partner in alleviating poverty    2003     Impact      Yes
                      at the county level                    assessment
C.Câmpean      Targeting poverty. A strategy for      2003   Policy paper  Yes
                         fund release
E.Pâslaru         Do communities want to be           2003   Policy paper  Yes
                           involved?
C.Câmpean     Social implications of a rural road     2003   Case study    Yes
                         rehabilitation
E.Pâslaru     Small gains. How small are they ?       2003   Case study    Yes




                                      50

