Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4645 RO
Loan Agreement
(Social Development Fund Project – Phase II)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 16, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4645 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 16, 2002, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank has received a letter dated November 6, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing a phased program (the Program) to alleviate poverty through measures to 
enhance the development of rural communities and disadvantaged groups, declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to implementation of the Program and requesting the Bank to support 
the execution of the Program through extension to the Borrower of loans up to the equivalent of 
$20,000,000 over a period of  four (4) years; 
(B)
the first phase of the Program has been supported by the Bank through a loan in 
an amount equal to $10,000,000 pursuant to a loan agreement (4434-RO) dated January 20, 1999, 
between the Borrower and the Bank;
(C) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) which forms part of the second 
phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project through 
provision of the second loan in an amount equal to $20,000,000 and extending the period of 
Program implementation up to seven (7) years;  
(D)
to assist in  financing the Program, the Borrower has obtained a grant (the DFID 
Grant) in an amount of ·1,000,000 from the United Kingdom on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement between the British Department for International Development (DFID) and 
the Borrower (the DFID Grant Agreement) dated July 30, 2001, out of which an amount 
equivalent to $250,000 will be used for financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to 
the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as modified through October 6, 
1999 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4), set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, services and 
Subproject Grants under the Project referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(c)
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement entered or to be entered into between 
RSDF and a Recipient (as these terms are hereinafter defined) for the purposes of Part A.1 of the 
Project and referred to in Part B.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;   
(d)
“Law  No. 129” means the Borrower’s Law No. 129, dated June 30, 1998, as 
may be subsequently amended;
(e)
“Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by RSDF  setting forth  criteria 
and procedures for selection of Recipients and Subprojects and defining terms and procedures 
applicable to assistance provided by RSDF under the Project, including a standard Grant 
Agreement referred to in Part B.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;  as such manual may be 
amended from time to time upon the agreement with the Borrower and  the Bank;
(f)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(g)
“Recipient” means any organization or agency eligible to receive and administer 
assistance in accordance with the Law No. 129 and the Operational Manual;
(h)
“RSDF” means the Romanian Social Development Fund, established under the 
Law No. 129,  as a public-interest, non-profit entity with legal personality and enjoying 
administrative autonomy, or any legal successor thereto;
(i)
“Special Account” means  the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(j)
“Steering Committee” means the nine-member committee established and 
operating within RSDF pursuant to the Law No. 129 and provisions of the Operational Manual; 
(k)
“Subproject” means the activities to be carried out by a Recipient utilizing the 
funds (Subproject Grant) made available to such Recipient under a Grant Agreement; 
Page  4
(l)
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by RSDF to a 
Recipient for the carrying out of a Subproject under Part A.1 of the Project; and
(m)
“Subsidiary Agreement”  means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and RSDF pursuant to the provisions of Part A (1) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 1.03.
Each reference in the General Conditions to the “Project implementation 
entity” shall be deemed as a reference to the RSDF.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty million Dollars 
($20,000,000).
Section 2.02.
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:            (a) expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (b) 
amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made by a Recipient under a Subproject Grant to finance the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from 
the Loan Account is requested. 
Section 2.03.
The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. 
Section 2.05.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06.
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
Page  5
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07.
Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and  November 15 in 
each year.
Section 2.08.
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
through RSDF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
engineering, administrative and poverty alleviation and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and  
Page  6
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through RSDF, 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to RSDF under a 
subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
RSDF, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including those 
set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan, and, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive, the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02.
(a) The Borrower undertakes that Subproject Grants will be made in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and in the Operational Manual.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to any Subproject Grant in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03.
Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04.
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower, acting through RSDF, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project and the Program; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.
(a) The Borrower, acting through RSDF, shall establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements 
in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, acting through RSDF, shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
Page  7
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank which shall be contracted not later than 
November 30, 2002;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, 
records and accounts and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during each fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower through RSDF, shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of 
said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower through RSDF, not later than May 15, 2002, or 
such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by 
Page  8
said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower, through RSDF, shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or 
waived without the Bank’s prior consent; 
(b)
the Law No. 129 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement; 
(c)
a situation shall have arisen, which shall make it improbable that the Program or 
a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(d)
the Subsidiary Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the RSDF to carry out the Project; 
(e)
the RSDF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(f)
(
i)  
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the DFID Grant shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the DFID Grant Agreement.
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
Page  9
cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower 
to perform any of its obligations under the DFID Grant Agreement; and 
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)  
the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower and RSDF; and
(b) 
any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:  
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
RSDF; 
(b)
the Operational Manual has been modified in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
and 
(c)
the Steering Committee has selected a region and a host institution, satisfactory 
to the Bank, for the establishment of an RSDF regional branch referred to in Part A.6 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02.
The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.
The Minister of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
Page  10
For the Borrower:
Ministry of  Public Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Telex:
Facsimile:
11239
401 312 6792
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in           
Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written.
ROMANIA
By                                     /s/ Mihai Nicolae Tanasescu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  
                                     /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink
Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subproject Grants
18,880,000
84%
(2)
Goods 
100,000
100% of foreign
 
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
84% of local expen-
ditures for other items
Page  12
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services
(a)  for Part A.2 of the Project
500,000
55%
(b)  for Parts B.1 and C.2
300,000
84%
      of the Project 
(4)
Training
  (a)   for Part A.2 of the Project
138,000
84%
(b)  for Part B.2 of the Project
42,000
84%
  (c)  for Part C.1 of the Project
40,000
100% of foreign
_______
expenditures
     TOTAL
20,000,000
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “training” means (i) fees of consultants, including educational or other 
institutions and organizations, that provide training services; and (ii) cost of study tours, cost of 
workshops, and related travel expenditures, and boarding, lodging and per diem allowances of 
training participants.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the fee amount referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement has been paid by the Borrower to the Bank; 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c) 
payments under Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule in respect of a Subproject Grant unless the Subproject Grant has been provided 
pursuant to the Grant Agreement and in accordance with the procedures, terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Operational Manual and in the relevant provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Page  13
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a)  Subproject Grants estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (b) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (c) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than 
$50,000; and (d) goods and  training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower, through RSDF, shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Annex to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of statements of expenditures.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. 
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
Page  14
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $2,000,000 to be withdrawn 
from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex. 
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
Page  15
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project constitutes the second phase of the Program which has the objective of 
alleviating poverty through measures and investments to improve living conditions in poor rural 
communities and among disadvantaged groups and to increase local capacity for organization 
and self-help. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A
:  Subprojects
1.
Carrying out of Subprojects by Recipients in the following areas: (a) development and 
rehabilitation of small rural infrastructure; (b) delivery of community-based social services; (c) 
carrying out of income generating activities; and (d) carrying out of follow-up activities for 
Subprojects financed by RSDF during the first phase of the Program.
2.
Assistance in capacity building at community level through preparation, facilitation, 
appraisal and supervision of Subprojects and provision of  training.
Part B
:  Knowledge Sharing and Partnership Building
1.
Assistance with collection, analysis and dissemination of information about Subproject 
benefits, carrying out information, education and communication campaigns, promotional 
initiatives and establishing networks between communities, local authorities, non-governmental 
organizations and community-based organizations.
2.
Carrying out workshops and other training activities with governmental agencies on the 
lessons learned from RSDF operations.
Part C
:  Institutional Strengthening
1.
Implementation of measures to strengthen the capacity  of RSDF and establishment of 
decentralized regional units, through provision of training, equipment and technical assistance.
2.
Provision of assistance to RSDF for monitoring and evaluation of Subprojects through: 
(a) strengthening of the management information system, establishment of a  specialized 
monitoring unit within RSDF and financial audits; and (b) carrying out of impact evaluations 
with a special emphasis on building linkages with other Romanian institutions engaged in 
poverty reduction activities.
Page  16
     * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Date
       (US Dollars)    
*
May 15, 2006
600,000
November 15, 2006
610,000
May 15, 2007
620,000
November 15, 2007
635,000
May 15, 2008
645,000
November 15, 2008
660,000
May 15, 2009
670,000
November 15, 2009
685,000
May 15, 2010
700,000
November 15, 2010
710,000
May 15, 2011
725,000
November 15, 2011
740,000
May 15, 2012
755,000
November 15, 2012
770,000
May 15, 2013
785,000
November 15, 2013
800,000
May 15, 2014
815,000
November 15,  2014
830,000
May 15, 2015
845,000
November 15, 2015
865,000
May 15, 2016
880,000
November 15, 2016
895,000
May 15, 2017
915,000
November 15, 2017
930,000
May 15, 2018
950,000
November 15, 2018
965,000
__________________________
*  
The figures in this column represent the amount in US Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
     Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Page  17
Section I
.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:  General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
:  Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods under Part C of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Works, Goods and Services under Subprojects
Works, goods and services under Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and procedures set forth in the Operational 
Manual. 
Part C
:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $50,000 
and to be procured in accordance with the provisions of Part B.1 and Part B.2 of this Section; (b) 
contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $100,000 to be procured under 
Subprojects, and (c) contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $5,000 and 
to be procured under Subprojects through direct contracting, the following procedures shall 
apply:
Page  18
(A)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures or small works procedures, as said 
procedures are set forth in the Operational Manual, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(B)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping and direct contracting procedures, as said procedures are set 
forth in the Operational Manual, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank 
a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(C)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract under Part A of the Project not governed by paragraph 1 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines 
shall apply.
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
Part A
:  General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
:  Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of     Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
:  Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for carrying out audit for the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of the procedures for least-cost selection of consultants, referred to in paragraph 3.6 
of the Consultants’ Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualification
Page  19
Services and training estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:  Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
Page  20
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) contracts for audit services, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(c)
With respect to the first three contracts for services under Subprojects, the 
procedures set forth in subparagraph (a) above and the procedures set forth in subparagraph (b) 
above shall apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms and contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants, respectively.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A
:  Project Management
1.
The Borrower shall assign the general responsibility for Project implementation to RSDF 
under a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and RSDF under terms 
and conditions which shall have been agreed upon with the Bank and which shall include, inter 
alia, provisions whereby: 
(a)
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to RSDF in the form of a 
grant; 
(b)
RSDF shall be required to implement the Project in accordance with the Law No. 129, 
the Operational Manual and the provisions of this Loan Agreement; and 
(c)
RSDF shall be required as part of its responsibility for Project implementation: (i) to 
prepare and furnish to the Bank, by March 31 in each year, for its review and concurrence, an 
annual work program for the Project; (ii) to maintain the Project financial records and accounts 
and to arrange for the audit thereof, and prepare and submit Project Management Reports; (iii) to 
prepare applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan; (iv) to assist the Recipients in 
the preparation of bidding and contract documents for activities to be financed under the Grant 
Agreements; (v) to supervise the implementation of the Project, including supervising the 
progress of each Subproject; and (vi) to prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each second and forth calendar quarter, 
Page  21
commencing on August 15, 2002, semi-annual reports on the progress of Project implementation, 
based on the indicators satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
During Project implementation, the Borrower shall: (a) maintain RSDF with an 
organizational and management structure, staffing and resources which shall be adequate to 
enable RSDF to effectively implement the Project and which shall be acceptable to the Bank; and 
(b) obtain the Bank’s prior approval for any changes in the personnel appointed for the positions 
of the RSDF executive director, financial manager, accountant, and procurement and 
management information system specialist, or the terms of their employment. 
3.
The Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee during Project implementation, 
with a composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, which shall provide oversight 
and policy guidance for Project implementation.
4.
The Borrower, through RSDF, shall ensure that Subprojects shall be selected, approved, 
carried out and evaluated in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual. 
5.
Not later than September 1, 2002, the Borrower shall cause RSDF to establish a 
monitoring and evaluation unit within its structure with the resources, staff and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank.
6.
Not later that September 1, 2002,  the Borrower shall cause RSDF to establish a regional 
branch in the region selected upon the agreement with the Bank.
Part B
:  Funding of Subprojects
For the purposes of  carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that:
1.
RSDF shall select Subprojects for financing from the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.
2.
RSDF shall provide financing on a grant basis for approved Subprojects on the basis of a 
standard agreement  agreed upon with the Borrower and the Bank (the Grant Agreement), to be 
entered into between RSDF and each Recipient. The Grant Agreement shall include, inter alia:
(a) 
a description of the Subproject, together with an estimate of the cost thereof;
(b) 
the amount to be provided by RSDF to the Recipient to assist in the carrying out 
of the Subproject; 
(c) 
the implementation schedule for the Subproject;
(d) 
the degree to which cost sharing, in accordance with the principles set forth in 
the Operational Manual, shall be required to be made by the Recipient with respect to the 
financing of the Subproject for the implementation of which assistance is provided to such 
Recipient under the Grant Agreement;
(e) 
the obligation of the Recipient to procure small works, goods and services to be 
financed under the Grant Agreement in accordance with the procedures set forth in the 
Page  22
Operational Manual;   
Page  23
(f) 
the obligation of the Recipient to report to RSDF on the progress of Subproject 
implementation and to enable representatives of RSDF and of the Bank, if the Bank shall so 
request, to visit the facilities, construction sites or other activities to be financed under the Grant 
Agreement; and
(g) 
the obligation of the Recipient to maintain records and accounts for expenditures 
incurred under the Subproject and financed from the proceeds of the Loan made available to the 
Recipient under the Grant Agreement and to submit to RSDF at regular intervals statements with 
respect to such records and accounts.
3.
RSDF shall: (a) obtain the Bank’s prior approval of the first three Subprojects from a 
category defined as “Follow-up Activities” in the Operational Manual; and (b) include in the 
progress reports referred to in Part A (1) (vi) above, based on externally contracted annual 
reviews of sample of completed Subprojects, information and analysis adequate to support the 
conclusion that the selection of Subprojects and of Recipients and the determination of the terms 
and conditions of Grant Agreements are all made in accordance with the principles set forth in 
the Operational Manual.
Part C
:  Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
The Borrower, through RSDF, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators satisfactory to the Bank,  the carrying out 
of the Project and of measures included in the Program;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, no later than February 28, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Part C, on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project and the Program during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, no later than April 30, 2004, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Part, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Bank views on the matter.
2.
Not later than April 30, 2002, the Borrower shall cause RSDF to submit evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank that an updated management information system has become operational 
and it has included a revised set of qualitative and quantitative indicators acceptable to the Bank.
