Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CJZ~~ RO DC)5._Cie
Report No. 7632-CHA
STAFF APPPAISAL REPORT
CHINA
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 3, 1989
Population, Human Resources, Urban Development
and Water Supply Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performane of
their officia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authozation.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$1.00 - Yuan (Y) 3.71
V 1 - US$0.27
(as of April, 1989)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CPHCC   -  Central Patriotic Health Campaign Committee
EPS     -  Epidemic Prevention Station
MCH     -  Maternal and Child Health
MOC     -  Ministry of Construction
MOPH    -  Ministry of Public Health
NAEM    -  National Association of Emergency Medicine
NCD     -  Non-communicable disease
PHCC    -  Patriotic Health Campaign Committee
RHC     -  Regional Health Commission
RHCO    -  Regional Health Commission Office
SAM     -  State Audit Administration
WBLO    -  World Bank Loan Office
WHO     -  World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHIN
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMEnT PROJECT
Za1be _of Contents
Credit and Project Summary .................................. ......... iii
Definitions ......................................,.,,,,,,,,,,. vi
Basic Data ...................,,,,,................,,,,,.,,....... vii
I. THE HEALTH SECTOR... ...........  1
A. Epidemiological Transition.                                         1
B.   The Health System ......................................   3
C.   Sectoral Issues ........................................   7
D.   Government Strategy and Role of Bank Assistance,,..,,    9
II.  THE PROJECT REGIONS ...........................................  11
A.   Selection of Regions ..........................                  11
B. Health Status.,,,,,, 12
C.   Health Infrastructure ..........................                 13
D.   Health Service Utilizarion,..................,                  ,, 13
III. THE PROJICT . ...................14...,,,,,,,,,,................  14
A.   Project Objectives .....................................  14
B.   The Components of the Project/Regional Plans.,,,,,,,.   15
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                        ..                     28
A.   Cost Estimates.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,          ....      ....  28
B.   Financing Plan .........................................  28
V. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION              ..                            31
A.   Project Management .....................................  31
B.   Project Monitoring .....................................  32
C.   Implementation Arrangements....,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  33
D.   Procurement,...,,.,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,.  34
E.   Disbursements ..........................................  37
F.   Accounts and Audits ....................................  39
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
China from December 1-15, 1988. Mission members were Mr. R. Bumgarner
(AS3PW-Mission leader), Dr. M. Young (Consultant), Dr. D. Banta
(Consultant), Dr. J. Marks (Consultant), Ms. T. Bassler (AS3CO), and
Ms. C. Choktikabukkana (AS3PW).
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKI                 ..                   40
A.  Benefits ................................................ 40
B.  Risks ................................................... 40
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMEATIONS. .41
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1  Summary Data on Project Regions and Provinces .... ...... 12
4.1  Summary Project Cost by Component .....    ................. 30
4.2  Summary Project Cost by Expenditure Category ............ 31
5.1 Procurement Arrangements ................................ 38
5.2   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ..................... 39
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Background on Project Regions ..                         43
Annex 2. Policy Guidelines to Strengthen Regional
Health Services ..                                      60
Annex 3. Project Costs ..                                        103
Annex 4. Financing Plan ..                                       111
Annex 5.  Project Evaluation and Monitoring ..                    113
Annex 6. Project Implementation Schedule ..                      119
Annex 7. Documents Available in Project File ..                  120
CHA2LTS
1.  Organization of the Ministry of Public Health ..        121
2. Financing of Health Care ..                              122
3.  Regional Planning Process ..                            123
MAPS
IBRD No. 21329 - Project Provinces and Regions
IBRD No. 21362 - Health Institutions in Baoji Region, Shaanxi
Province
IBFP No. 21363 - Health Institutions in Jinhua Region, Zhejiang
Province
IBRD No. 21364 - Health Institutions in Jiujiang Region, Jiangxi
Province



- iii -
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit ancLfroiect Summary
Borrower:            People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:       Zhejiang, Jiangxi and Shaanxi Provincial Governments;
Jinhua, Jiujiang and Baoji Regions; and Ministry of
Public Health (NOPH)
Amount:              SDR 39.4 million (US$52 million)
Terms of Credit:    Standard with 35-year repayment, including 10 years of
grace
Onlendinx Terms:    The Government would onlend SDR 38.6 million in equal
shares to the three provinces at an interest rate of
2.5%, repayable over 20 years, including a 5-year
grace period.  The provinces would assume the foreign
exchange risk.  SDR 800,000 would be made available to
Proiect Objectives  the Ministry of Public Health.
Project Objectives
and Description:    The project comprises the establishment of health
regions at Jinhua (Zhejiang province), Jiujiang
(Jiangxi province), and Baoji (Shaanxi province) to
experiment with new ways to improve capability for
planning and delivery of health services by
establishing policy criteria and systems for financing
investments in the regions and supporting investments
in the provincial capitals. The regional and
provincial project components are: (a) health
planning, management and reform; (u) disease
prevention and surveillance; (c) health educatior.; (d)
maternal and child health services; (e) emergency
services; (f) hospital services; (g) rehabilitative
medical services; (h) medical education and training;
and (i) equ.pment management. Medical education,
health education and emergency service investments at
the provincial level will receive additional support
beyond ti.at needed to just support the project region,
in order that provincial capabilities in these key
areas will be improved. A national component to
strengthen the capability of MOPH to guide, assess and
replicate the project and to begin to deal with issues



- iv -
Benefits and Risks: The programs and investments under the project would
improve the quality of health services available to an
estimated 10-12 million people in the three regions
and provincial capitals. Officials in the regions,
provinces and MOPH would be introduced to new
approaches to health planning, budgeting: and
coordination to meet health needs that have been
systematically identified. The project would provide
experience to MOPH in formulating and usir.g policy
guidelines and resource transfer, rat1.er than direct
budgetary control, to influence health sector
development at the regional level. Health
institutions would develop capacity to design and
conduct chronic disease prevention programs, improve
hospital efficiency and management and develop more
effective approaches to emergency medicine and
rehabilitative medical services. In addition, the
project would help to improve the relevance of medical
education and training to priority needs for healtn
care in China. The principal risk lies in the
implementing agencies' capability to manage the major
hanges the project concept would vring to the
processes of planning and investment for health
services. This risk would be minimized by carefully
phased implementation and frequent monitoring and
review of the regional health plans by MOPH and the
Association.



Estimated Cost:                                   Local    Fgreif    Thotal
------- ($ million) -----
Health Management and Reform                        4.7       0.2      4.9
Disease Prevention and Surveillance                14.8       1.8     16.5
Health Education                                    7.5       1.0      8.6
Maternal and Child Health Services                  7.4       0.5      7.9
Emergency Services                                 11.4       2.3     13.7
Hospital Services                                  22.7       6.1     28.8
Rehabilitative Medical Services                    4.2        0.2      4.4
Medical Edacation and Training                     20.1       2.2     22.3
Equipment Management                                3.3       0.6      3.9
National Component                                  1.2       0.8      2.0
Total Project Costs /A /b                    97.3       15.7    113.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                36.3      15.7     52.0
Central Government                                 0.3          -      0.3
Local Governments                                  60.7         -     60.7
TO                                           97.3       15.7    113.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA FY         90      91       92       93      94       95
-=-------------- (US$ million)--------------
Annual                    11.0     12.0    13.0      7.0     5.0     4.0
Cumulative                11.0     23.0    36.0    43.0    48.0    52.0
Rate of Return: Not Applicable
MM:  IBRD Nos. 21329, 21362, 21363, 21364.
/A   Plysical and price contingencies have not been included in cost
estimates. The Credit finances part of an indicative five year plan
of expenditures which is subject to change through annual review. The
first year budget appropriation (1989) has been appraised, but the
precise annual budgets in subsequent years would be determined
through annual reviews of need and achievements to date.
/b   Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.



- vi -
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy:                The percentage of persons aged 15 and over
who can read and write.
Child Mortality Rate:          Annual deaths of children 1-4 years per
1,000 children in the same age group.
Crude Birth Rate:              Number of live births per year per 1,000
people.
Crude Death Rate:              Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Dependency Ratio:              Ratio of population 14 years or under and 65
or over, to population aged 15 to 64 years,
multiplied by 100. Indicates proportion
that needs to be economically supported.
Incidence Rate:                Number of persons contracting a disease as a
proportion of the population at risk, per
unit of time usually expressed per 1,000
persons per year.
Infant Mortality Rate:         Annual deaths of infants under one year per
1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:      Number of years a newborn child would live
if subject to the mortality risks prevailing
for the cross-section of population at time
of birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate:       Number of maternal deaths per 1,000 births
in a given year attributable to pregnancy,
childbirth or puerperal complications.
Prevalence Rate:               Total number of all individuals who have a
disease at a particular time (or during a
particular period) per population at risk of
having the disease.



- vii -
CHIN
INTEGRATED REGIQNAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROMJEC
Basic Data
Total area (million km2)             ....................                    9.6
Total population (1988) (in millions)          ...............    1,085
Annual ratk of natural increase (%)           ...............                1.4
Proiected population for year 2000 (in millions)   .           .1,242
Density per km2 of agricultural land (mid-l83)          .      .             261
Density per km2 (1986)                          .110
Per capita GNP (1987) (in US$)            .................                  300
Crude birth rate (1986)             ..20.8
Crude death rate (1986)    ..6.7
Life expectancy at birth (1986) (years)    .               .69
Infant mortality rate (1986)    ..30
Child death rate (1983)..                                                      2
Urban population as percentage of total population (1986)                     37
Adult literacy rate (1987) ()    ..80
Population per doctor of western medicine (1986)   .           .1,753
Population per nurse (1986)    ..1,593



CHIN
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJ
I. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. ERidemiological Transition
1.1       Childhood immunization programs, accessible primary health care,
better sanitation and nutrition, and control of many irfe cious diseases
have contributed to remarkable improvements in health status. Life
expectancy has increased from an estimated 35 years in 1949 to 69 years in
1986, a figure closeL to the average of 76 years for industrialized
countries than to the 61 years estimated for low and middle-income
countries. A Bank study in 1984, The Health Sector in China (No. 4664',
examined the policies and programs which have led to China's achievements.
As a direct consequence of success in reducing incidence of communicable
and endemic disease, China is facing disease patterns typical of more
developed countries. Higher rates of chronic disease are attributable to
the population's increasing exposure to risk factors such as smoking,
dietary change, enviionmental and workplace hazards. In addition, longer
life expectancy and success in family planning have increased the numbers
atnd the proportion of adults in China's population and thus also increased
the ,emand for health services among the middle-aged and elderly.  Clearly,
these demographic and epidemiological trends present a new challenge for
health planners in China to develop affordable but effective policies for
chronic disease care and prevention while addressing the remaining problems
of infectious disease. Another Bank study on China's health sector is
nearing completion. It takes a prospective look at China's changing
epidemiological pattern and the need to realign strategic planning in
health infrastructure, technology, manpower and finances. Its objectives
are to improve understanding of the future disease burden arid its causes,
to help define key issues facing the sector, and to evaluate options for
addressing them. Work on this report has proceeded in parallel with the
proposed project and much of the strategy and approach in the proposed
project is a result of the conclusions emerging from this sector study.
1.2       Chronic Disease.  The full impact of chronic diseases as a major
health problem is just biginning to be felt in China, and the burden is
likely to become much heavier. Heart disease, stroke and cancer accounted
for 63 percent of total mortality in 1986 (68 percent in urban areas; 60
percent in rural areas). Injuries were the fourth leading cause of death
in both areas. Together these four causes account for 72 percent of all
deaths in China. Adding diseases such as diabetes, kidney disease, liver
cirrhosis and psychological and neurological diseases brings the total to
over 76 percent of mortality. Urban areas are affected by chronic diseases
related to lifestyle, smoking and diet and these risk factors are spreading
from urban to rural areas as incomes increase. Rural areas are affected
more than urban populations by communicable diseases, by chronic diseases
closely associated to poor primary care, poor living conditions, and the
inju.y risks common to agricultural work.



1.3       The importance of chronic diseases is confirmed by estimates of
years of potential years life lost annuall, due to premeure death. More
than half of China's annual estimated 70 million years of premature life
loss is due to chronic diseases and injury. This represents an enormous
burden on society and a huge economic loss. In addition, chronic diseases
and injuries now account for a large share of hospital services and health
care costs, and an increasing proportion of disability. They contribute to
rising health care costs and underpin an impetus for hospital expansion and
purchases of sophisticated and expensive equipment for diagnosis and
treatment.
1.4       Economic reforms in China since 1979 have brought rapid change
in employment, income levels and lifestyle and have increased the
importance of certain risk factors for chlronic disease. Growing use of
motor vehicles and chemical fertilizers and pesticides have contributed to
a marked rise in the incidence of injury and mortality due -o trauma and
poisoning, especially among young adults. As incomes grow, there have also
been changes in food consumption, including higher consumption of saturated
fats and more refined, higher calorie diets, which may pose risk factors
for chronic disease.  In addition, environmental pollution poses severe
health risks. Large-scale efforts in the early 1980's to reduce
particulate emissions from heating and power plants have significantly
improved air quality in major cities, but smoke pollution, both indoor and
outdoor, and workplace exposure to noise, dusts and powerful toxins and
carcinogens remain major problems. The rapid growth in numbers of medium
and small enterprises and their relatively unregt4ated working environment
hLave overwhelmed the capacity of health authorities to deal with these
environmental and occupational hazards.
1.5       By far the most important risk factor for the leading chronic
diseases is cigarette smoking. Prevalence of cigarette smoking among men
over age 20 in China is already very high (70%), and there is likelihood
that tobacco use among young peop.e and among women may sharply increase.
Even with no change in smoking prevalence, China will face an enormous
burden in coming decides from illness related to or caused by smoking,
including lung cancer, obstructive lung disease, heart disease and stroke,
and a variety of other cancers and vascular diseases. Most of these
diseases are related to both dose and duration of smoking and most do not
become manifest until years, decades in some cases, of smoking exposure
have accrued. For some of the diseases, the risk or damage caused by
smoking is irreversible even with cessation of the addiction. Thus,
China's risk factor patterns, tobacco in particular, imply an enorraous and
largely unavoidable increase in illness from chronic diseases in the
future. The importance of an early start on prevention programs and health
education is underscored by both the long incubation period before the
diseases emerge and by the lack of effective treatment or cure for many of
them.
1.6       Communicable Disease.  China's considerable achievements in
traditional public health work have meant that infectious diseases are much



- 3 -
less important as a cause of death, though they remain a leading cause of
morbidity. Persistent problems appear to stem from three factors:
inadequatt budgetary funding fot prevention and control programs as the
result of emphasis on a "fee for service" approach in recent years; poor
targeting and inefficient design of prevention and control programs with
over-emphasis on traditional problems now largely under control; and
difficult environmental conditions unique to specific regions.   For
example, key vector borne diseases such as malaria, leptospirosis, and
hemorrhagic fever are much higher in the rural areas where exposure to
rodents and mosquitoes is more difficult to control. Inadequate sanitation
and hygiene education in the countryside contribute to a higher prevalence
of dysentery. Immunization rates for preventable childhood diseases tend
to be lower in rural areas, and neonatal tetanus is still a notable cause
of infant death. Communicable diseases can also constitute risk factors
for some chronic diseases. The most important known virally transmitted
risk in China is Hepatitis B, which is a serious communicable disease
itself. It is easily transmitted to the baby at birth and becomes a
primary risk factor for liver cancer, which occurs at high rates in most of
China. Infectious and communicable diseases should continue to be targeted
as priorities to further reduce morbidity, although it is important to note
that key diseases are relatively few and tend to be highly specific to
geographic areas and age groups. Further overall reductions in infectious
disease morbidity and mortality therefore may be relatively difficult to
achieve.
B.  The Hea.th System
1.7       Serv±ice. .every and Administration.  The Ministry of Public
Health (MOPH) is resp.-nsible for overall policy direction and
implementation, supervision of preventive health work, medical education,
and coordination between institutions in the health sector (see Chart 1).
The structure of MOPH is mirrored at the provincial level in the public
health bureau. As part of the Government's far-reaching institutional
reform, responsibility for fiscal management and detailed health program
planning and delivery has been decentralized to provinces and lower
administrative levels. This has occurred over a relatively short period,
requiring local institutions to create and adapt administrative processes
rather quickly. Guidance, procedures and training have been uneven and not
always adequate. There has been little incentive and direction to begin to
deal with the emerging issues described in section A above.
1.8       In 1986 there were nearly 60,000 health care institutions in
China's public system with a total of 2.3 million beds and a bed/population
ratio of 2.18 beds per 1,000 people. Sixty-eight percent of the beds are
in county level hospitals and abo-ve. The remaining third are in 47,700
township health centers and comparable institutions. In addition, separate
health institutions exist under the military, the railways, major state
enterprises and some larger provincial and local industries. Urban/rural
differences in bed supply are marked. In 1986, urban bed provision was
4.48 per 1,000 (the same as the average for OECD countries) compared with
1.54 per 1,000 in rural areas. In reality, these differences are even



- 4 -
greater since the majority of township health centers and other lower level
health care institutions, which hardly qualify as hospitals, tend to be
located in rural areas. Overall, there is considerable inefficiency in the
hospital system resulting from the administrative complexity of over-sized
institutions and the multiplicity of levels of hospitals (up to seven)
which have been established to serve particular administrative levels or
populations, such as enterprise workers or military personnel.
1.9       Public health and disease prevention activities have been
carried out mainly by Epidemic Prevention Stations (EPS) at the provincial,
city and county levels. The EPS are responsible for surveillance and
reporting, control of communicable diseases, monitoring of environmental
health and food hygiene, and health education. Their current preventive
activities include childhood immunizatJins, and organization of endemic
disease control programs. Preventive work below the county level is
usually the responsibility of a unit within the township health center,
together with the rural doctors of the village health stations. The EPS
have not yet responded to changing disease patterns. Chronic disease
surveillance and preventive activities are limited or nonexistent due to
lack of direction, scarcity of appropriately trained staff and inadequate
budgets.
1.10      With increased income in many urban and rural areas as a result
of economic reforms, demand for higher level medical and institutional care
has increased sharply. Growing numbers of rural and urban residents axe
bypassing lower and mid-level health services, seeking higher-level care at
larger hospitals, in some cases when it is neither justified nor
efficacious. Urban-based hospitals are consequently overloaded, and this
generates demand for further expansion.  Because of the perceived Nhigh-
occupancy" rate in hospitals, many planning authorities in national,
provincial and local agencies have placed high priority on expansion of
higher level urban facilities despite the favorable ratios which have
already been achieved (para. 1.8). County hospitals and smaller suburban
hospitals, which could provide appropriate care for many cases, are
relatively neglected in allocations of investment and operating budgets,
thus perpetually lowering demand for mid-level services.
1.11      In the absence of other guidance and incentives, local health
officials use obsolete standards for beds or staff per th3usand population
to calculate resource requirements; little attention is paid to ways to
improve operational efficiency. The average length of stay (LOS) in
hospitals is very long (20 days and more for many disease categories),
approximating that found in the West several decades ago, and the trend has
been upward in recent years. The long LOS reflects a substantial degree of
inefficiency and need for management improvements. Contributing factors
are the lack of adequate and alternative out-patient facilities and non-
hospital care for convalescing patients, physician attitudes and patient
expectations, lack of pre-admission diagnostics, inefficient use of
diagnostic and therapeutic facilities, overuse by those who are fully
insured, and financial self-interest on dhe part of hospi:als which are



- 5 -
also under pressure to earn revenues from services as part of overall
reform programs.
1.12      Health Costs. Financing and Patterns of SRending.  Between 1981
and 1986, state expenditures on health increased rapidly. Total spending
on health, including insurance claims and private payments, have also
increased steadily. By 1987, total health spending was equivalent to about
20% of the national budget and roughly 4% of gross domestic product
compared with 10% and 2%, respectively, in 1980. Intensive utilization by
insured patieuts accounted for much of the increase. Increasing payments
by patients themselves also contributed to higher overall spending. In
addition, budgets have been used to update technology, rehabilitLte
neglected facilities and invest in capital expansion mainly to increase
provision of services and procedures in hospitals and other health
institutions in order to earn revenue. The proportion of capital
expenditure in the total budget also increased from 15% in 1981 to 22% in
1986. Capital investments generally create future recurrent liabilities
for their operating costs. There is thus a risk that since recurrent
funding is already inadequate, new capital investments may emphasize health
services that generate net operating profits but do not necessarily add to
the quality or effectiveness of preventive programs or of curative care.
1.13      With decentralization local governments have taken on primary
responsibility for most public health expenditures and are spending about
7% of their budgets on health services, including base salaries for which
they receive a subsidy from higher levels of government. This spending
level represents a substantial increase from the recent past. The purposes
and pattern of these increasing expenditures (ref. paras. 1.6, 1.8-11 and
1.12) raise questions of affordability, effectiveness and relevance of some
expenditures to health needs. Future epidemiological and demographic
trends (paras. 1.1 and 1.5) will inevitably require increased health care
expenditures. However, the pattern of this spending (with an emphasis on
primary prevention) will be critical to achievement of any real health
gains and the avoidance of a deterioration in health status and even life
expectancy for many.
1.14      An additional trend is the biasing of expenditures toward
diagnostic and treatment services that benefit primarily insured, urban
residents. Health education and disease prevention activities at.d poorer
and remote populations are often relatively neglected. This trend is
linked with the growth of capital investment to expand treatment services
for chronic disease in urban hospitals and the subsequent growth of
recurrent expenditures in these institutions. Some of this expansion is
justified and likely 1:o be even more in demand as chronic illness becomes
more manifest. By thLs stage however little can he done to cure many of
the chronic diseases and the capital expansion absorbs funds and attention
which could more effectively be allocated to developing and sustaining
preventive programs to reduce and postpone the onset of the chronic
diseases.



- 6 -
1.15      Pricing and Payment for Health Services.  China's policy has
always been that prices for health services and m3dical procedures should
cover costs, excluding base salaries which are covered by budgetary
allocations.  Under the commune system costs for services were largely
recovered from reserves set aside from production and to which entitlement
was attributed on the basis of the workpoint system, social policies and
other criteria. Prices for services were successively reduced in the late
1950's and 1960's for social reasons, thereby increasing the level of
effective subsidy to the health sector. By the time of the disbanding of
the commune system in the early 1980's most of these "older" services were
priced substantially below cost. Conversely, services and newer
technologies introduced during the 1970's and 1980's were often priced well
above cost of provision as the result of administrative confusion and
negotiation of price-setting criteria during this turbulent era. The
breakup of the commune system m- t that increasingly cost recovery was
accomplished either by the remnanL of the insurance system, or by direct
patient payment for services.
1.16      The health sector was one of the last to undergo 'responsibility
system" reform and accompanying decentralization.  Responsibility for
public financing of health services devolved to provincial and lower levels
of government and in theory was offset by lower requirements for revenue
flows from prnvinces and localities to the central government. In the
reform process and to compensate for changes in financial flows as tax and
profit mechar.isms were established in the productive sectors, health
institutions were gradually pressed by national reform policiws to be
responsible to recover operational costs, some staff benefits and generally
a small share of investment. Pricing policy remained the same in
principle, but distortions remuaining from the earlier period created a
natural incentive for over- or under-provision of some services by health
institutions seeking to maximize net revenues.  Rapidly rising per capita
expenditures under both the labor and goNvernment insurance systems in the
last five years (annual average growth rates of 25% and 13%, respectively,
from 1980-86) appear to have resulted in part from provider-encouraged
overuse.
1.17      On the demand side, reforms in other sectors encouraged rural-
urban migration and labor mobility. Incomes grew substantially for
selected groups and stimulated growth in utilization of health services as
higher rates of stroke, heart and respiratory disease, cancer and injury
became prevalent in the last decade. The absence of incentives to
constrain use of health services by those who are insured with no copayment
or deductible requirements and the willingness of wealthier peasants and
workers to pay for the 'best" care they can buy, has added to the
escalation of both service utilization and total expenditures and probably
decreased overall equity and access to health care. Recovery of health
costs from insurance or from patient payments has increased since the early
1980's fzom about two-thirds of total expenditures to ab.out 80 percent
today. While these very high rates of cost recovery from health services
are laudable from the perspective of resource mobilization they may also
involve a gradual loss of the social safety net which has over the last



three decades explained part of the remarkable improvement of health status
which has been achieved. At minimum provision of services can be expected
to c turned increasingly toward those demanded by the insured ano by those
able to pay for care.
C.  Sectoral Issues
1.18      Growth and Changes in Demand for Health Services.  In planning
and managing health services, China needs to improve the links between the
health requirements of its population, the services provided and the
desired outcome of health interventions. Since the ;950's, health policy
in China has focused mainly on communicable disease, now and for the
foreseeable future, however, elevated priority will need to be given to
services that address chronic diseases as the dominant cause of mortality
and increasingly important contributor to morbidity. There need to be
improved systems for collecting and analyzing data on chronic diseases and
incorporating this information in plannirg of policies and programs.
Institutions and services must also be adapted in light of demographic
changes. Persons under 5 years of age and over 50, the most medically
vulnerable segment of the population, will increase by more then 50% by the
year 2025. The proportion of dependent elderly (over age 65) in the
population will increase from about 8% today to an estimated 18% over the
.ame period. In addition, the extended family unit is being gradually
replaced by "three generation' single-child households. Thus, while the
pool of those who are at risk, disabled and chronically ill is expanding,
there is a shrinking support group of relatives to sustain the tradition of
custodial care and mutual aid at home.
1.19      Balance Between Preventive and Curative Strategies.  In recent
years, evidence has been accumulating that China's health system, like manv
in more developed countries, could tilt toward a curative model
concentrated on advanced medical technology. Such an approach would be
inapr-opriate in that it could benefit only a minority of the population
and would be relatively ineffective in making significant differences in
health status or life expectancy. It would be unaffordable on a large
scale, requiring large numbers of highly trained manpower, expensive
diagnostic and therapeutic equipment and large numbers of hospitals.
Instead, current demands for more hospital beds can be met at least in part
by policy and management improvements to reduce hospital LOS and free beds
now used inefficiently. This would allow postponement or at least reduce
the urgency of some capital expansion. More importantly, primary prevention
programs to avoid and postpone the onset of chronic disease and to sustain
past achievements in communicable disease control should be stressed.
China must reinforce its traditional concern for strong public health
services with health education to minimize risk factor exposure and, more
importantly, to induce changes in societal behaviors linked to the onset of
disease or injury. It will be important to ensure that curative services,
especially higher cost treatments, are mainly limited to those which are
effective and are balanced with intervention strategies of early detection,
simple treatment, effective and humane care and community-based
rehabilitative and outpatient services. Traditional roles of primary level



- 8 -
institutions, such as the EPS, maternal and child health centers, and
township and village clinics will need to be broadened to encompass new
tasks of surveillance and primary prevention of non-communicable disease,
occupational hazards and injuries.
1.20      Institutional Coordination.  There also needs to be improved
coordination of planning and delivery of health services across and within
health institutions. For several decades, budgetary allocations and
subsidies for health institutions have been determined by the health unit's
affiliation with a particular level of government or provincial bureau,
enterprise or other public entity. This structure has fostered "unit-
based" approaches to capital investments, with relatively little attention
to integrating services of various institutions to meet the needs of th,e
overall population. Consequently, there is inadequate horizontal
coordination of institutions, spatial distribution of facilities is not
rational, teferral mechanisms are lacking, and the development or expansion
of health services often involves inefficient duplication of specialized
services. Consolidating the management of multiple levels of hospitals and
health services and enforcement of better referral procedures in both urban
and rural areas would help improve efficiency and control the growing
problem of self-referral to higher levels of care. Vertical coordination
also needs strengthening. Linkages are weak between urban hospitals and
rural health services, and ambulatory and community-based services are
underdeveloped. Efforts are also required to address both real and
perceived weaknesses in middle and lower level services, so these
institutions can be utilized optimally before patients are referred to
higher level hospitals where unit costs are much higher. A system-oriented
approach is particularly important in emergency services, where networks
need to be organized across sectors and institutions, and in rehabilitative
services, where well-coordinated tiers of inpatient and outpatient services
and community-based care need to be developed.
1.21      Medical Technology.  Since the late 1970's, medical technology
in Chiaa has increased markedly in sophistication, especially through the
importing of medical equipment. Capability to plan for acquisition of
equipment and systems to manage and maintain medical technology, however,
hav_ not been developed as readily. There is urgent need for more rational
investment in equipment and maintenance, with emphasis on appropriate local
technologies, efficiency in operation, optimal utilization, adequate
servicing, and spare parts management. Protocols for the use of various
treatments and technologies in clinical care needs to be developed.
Obsolete, ineffective and unsafe technologies need to be phased out, and
the diffusion of high cost technologies needs to be carefully regulated.
1.22      Human Resource Development.  Medical education and training of
health workers at all levels needs to be better linked to changing health
needs.  Undergraduate medical curricula need to be expanded to include
courses in epidemiology, primary and secondary prevention of chronic
diseases, and in the appropriate utilization of modern diagnostics and
treatment methods. Existing health workers, who were trained primarily to
manage communicable diseases, require in-service training to adapt to new



technologies and concepts for preventing and treating chronic disease.
Managers of health institutions at all levels need training in health
administration and management.
1.23      Pricing and Pavment Issues.  There is need for experimentation
with different instruments to constrain demand. Alternative approaches
could include insurance deductibles, iisease-related-group pricing and
reimbursement policies, and referral and triage criteria for treatment,
among others. In addition pr'ce reform, both upward and downward
adjustments, is needed to achieve long-standing cost recovery policy and to
eliminate incentives and disincentives for provision of some services.
Making these changes is complicated for two reasons. The first is that
prices need to be determined relative not only to the cost of service
provision but also to cost effectiveness and efficacy. The second reason
is that corresponding changes will have to be made in the way that overall
subsidies for health services are distributed and recovered if hospitals
and other health institutions no longer enjoy prices which allow 'profits'
to be made on some services. It may be that temporarily China has pursued
reforms in cost recovery and self-financing at the health unit level in an
unnecessarily rigid way with adverse social and health consequences. It
may be cheaper overall, and more equitable and efficient, to retirn to a
higher ratio of public funding for some health services and to encourage
growth of risk sharing arrangements for others. There is no clear path of
international experience to a single correct approach for China to follow
in its health pricing and payment choices. In these areas, China, like
most other countries, will have to experiment with ways to fund and recover
costs from .llness-care services. Its needs are likely to be met best in
different ways at different times.
D.  Government Strategy and Role of Bank Assistance
1.24      The Government's current health policy objectives are: (a) to
strengthen and consolidate health services through improving management of
health institutions; (b) to promote prevention and health maintenance by
strengthening disease prevention, surveillance, occupational health and
maternal education by integrating prevention programs with basic health
care services; (c) to strengthen the training and increase the numbers of
middle level health professionals by targeting enrollment to under-served
areas and by expanding curricula and improving education and training
courses; and (d) to reform the health service financing system by adjusting
prices, implementing insurance schemes and undertaking other changes to
control costs and encourage efficient delivery and use of health services.
1.25      The Bank's strategy for assistance to China in the health sector
is to help the MOPH and its counterpart bureaus at the provincial level to
bring about the reforms in policy and institutional structures needed to
address the changing health needs of China's population. To date, the Bank
has supported two projects in the health sector. A Rural Health and
Medical Education Project (Cr. 1472) is providing US $85 million equivalent
to help improve rural health services in 46 counties, enhance educational
programs and facilities at China's thirteen key medical colleges,



' 10 -
strengthen the MOPH and develop national centers for preventive medicine,
health planning and statistics, and research on traditional medicine. A
Rural Health and Preventive Medicine Project (Ln. 2723/Cr. 1713) is
financing US$80 million equivalent to help improve rural health in 50
counties, strengthen the EPS system in nine provinces, increase the quality
and supply of the five main vaccines for childhood immunizatior, improve
drug quality control and experiment with rural insurance. Performance on
both of these projects is satisfactory.
1.26      Experience gained in these projects has helped both MOPH and the
Bank to understand the importance of reforms in medical education, of
reorientation of the role of the EPS toward primary prevention, including
of the chronic diseases, of the need for much better disease surveillance
and epidemiological information, and for progress on the main sectoral
issues (paras. 1.18 to 1.23).  This, in turn, has influenced the
identification of priority areas for further 3ank assistance included in
the proposed project.  These include development of systems for effective
surveillance and epidemiologic analysis, improvement of planning and
management capability at all levels, strengthening of primary and secondary
disease prevention programs with assured minimum levels of long-term
funding, strengthening of horizontal and vertical cooperation and
performance monitoring of hospitals and health units, experimentation with
reforms in pricing and insurance systems to contain excessive demand and
provide coverage for more of the population, development of an effective
emergency network and rehabilitative services, and reorientation and
upgrading of medical education and training.
1.27      Project Formulation and Rationale.  In view of the fast-growing
and changing health requirements and the sector-wide needs for better
coordination and management of health services, the Government and the
Association agreed that this third health project should be conceptualized
differently from the two previous operations. The overall trend in China
toward decentralization implied that the project should center on the role
of provincial and local governments. Experience in other countries facing
similar shifts in epidemiology indicated that a 'regional" approach had
many strengths. Emerging issues in the sector (paras. 1.18-1.23) suggested
the project should seek in a given geographic area to address broadly the
need for integrated health planning and improvements in services across a
variety of institutions and types of health care. Designation of health
regions can allow the development, deployment and functioning of health
facilities to be analyzed, guided, coordinated, re-directed, restructured
and re-allocated according to need and effectiveness. In addition, it was
agreed that the project should support MOPH in developing its leadership
role in establishing effective health policy and providing technical and
program support. It was therefore decided the operation should experiment
with approaches reflecting the Government's overall objectives for the
health sector in a small number of regions that could serve eventually as
models for development of health systems and services in other parts of
China. The Associdtion would bring to the project the experience of its
staff and that of international and national health planners and managers
to improve health planning methodology, design policies to reduce



- 11 -
inefficiencies in health services, and focus attention on future trends and
their implications for health care. Initial assistance in these areas was
provided to MOPH and the participating project areas during project
preparation.
II. THE PROJECT REGIONS
2.1       In the context of reforms and adjustments in its economic system
and administrative structure China has decentralized considerable
responsibility in recent years to provinces and, below provinces, to
prefectures and 'regions".l These terms refer to groupings of counties,
usually with natural geographic or economic linkages, under an intermediate
level of government which holds fiscal and administrative responsibilities
for the area. There is usually some, limited decentralization of authority
to counties and townships within the region.
A. Selection of Regions
2.2       The MOPH identified three regions as suitable locations for
experimenting with new approaches to regional health services. These are
Jinhua in Zhejiang province; Baoii in Shaanxi province; and Jiujiang in
Jiangxi province. Each region consists of a city with its associated
suburban and rural areas. Under their jurisdictions, Jinhua has 7
counties, Baoji has 10, and Jiujiang has 13. The total population of the
project areas is about 11 million. Each region contains a population base
large enough to allow a self-contained, comprehensive set of all basic and
referral care facilities required by the population and deployable within
acceptable proximity of those served. The MOPH selected these regions for
three reasons. First, the health status of each of these areas is
representative of the range of morbidity and mortality patterns in medium-
sized city regions in China. Secondly, the three regions reflect a variety
of income levels and environments for agricultural and industrial
production. And thirdly, the local authorities of each region are
interested in undertaking an experimental effort to develop better health
services. Project locations are shown in IBRD maps 21362, 21363, and
21364. Annex 1 provides background data for the three regions.
1 Prefectures tend to be groupings of counties in areas which are
more predominantly rural, with few urban or industrial centers and with
more-scattered, usually less-dense population. "Regions", sometimes
referred to as "municipalities" tend to have higher densities, more
industry and one or more urban centers which serve as hubs for trade and
commerce. Most "regions' have large rural areas and populations however.
The term "region" is used in this report as "municipality' implies far too
much urbanization to accurately characterize the areas de lt with in the
project.



- 12 -
B. Health Status
2.3       Table 2.1 provides basic information on the three regions included
in the project. By 1987, infant mortality in all three provinces and regions
had decreased to below 50 per 1000 births and crude mortality rates were
about 6 per 1000 population. There has also been a shift in major causes of
death from communicable to chronic diseases.  Communicable diseases such as
measles, influenza, and tuberculosis were the major causes of death in the
1950's. Today, heart diseases, stroke, cancer, trauma and poisoning are the
leading causes of death. There is some regional variation in the pattern of
morbidity and prevalence of endemic diseases. Baoji region has a high
prevalence of Kaschin-Beck disease2, fluorosis and goiter. Jiujiang has a
relatively heavy infestation of schistosomiasis compared with other regions
in Jiangxi province, and the prevalence of tuberculosis is well above the
national average. Jinhua has a particularly high incidence of injuries and
poisoning. More detailed description of the health status in these regions
is included in Annex 1.
Table 2:1: SUMMARY DATA ON PROJECT REGIONS AND PROVINCES
Zheliana          Shaanxi           Jiangxi        China
Province Jizhua     Province Baoj I  Province Jiujlang
Backtround
Population (million)   41.2    4.1      30.4   3.1        35.6    3.8     1,085
Number of counties
under the region's
jurisdiction              7                  10                  13       -
Literacy (X)        75.6  75.3          89.9  85.1        69.3   72.8       80
Per Capita Income
(RMB, 1988)      1,476  1,152          607  790         709    709      1,052
Health Status Indicators
(per thousand pop.)
Death rate           6.9   6.3           5.7  5.7         6.5    5.6       6.7
Birth rate          17.0  13.7          17.0  15.2       20.4   19.3      20.8
Infant mortality rate    24.4  36.9     38.0  38.7       29.6   45.5      30.0
Source:   Data provided by regional and provincial health bureaus (Item 7 in
Project File, Annex 7); Statistical Yearbook of China. 1988.
1/   Kaschin-Beck disease results in skeletal deformity, mainly of the hip
and long bones. The etiology of the disease is unknown.



- 13 -
C. Health Infrastructure
2.4       The health infrastructure of the three regions is similar to
that in other parts of the country. The regional health bureau oversees
the city-level general and specialty hospitals, EPS, maternal and child
health (MCH) centers, medical college and secondary training schools and
supervises the county health bureaus. Parallel to these institutions are
enterprise-run, military and railroad hospitals and clini.cs which are
managed and financed through their respective sectors and able to invest
independently in equipment and capital improvements. The EPS provide
immunizations, conduct air and water quality sampling activities, inspect
restaurants and food processing industries, examine health conditions in
schools and industries, offer laboratory services and collect basic data on
disease prevalence. These activities are based on national and provincial
directives but often do not take full account of existing local problems.
The -egional MCH center provides prenatal, intrapartum and postpartum care
to women and immunization and well-child care to infants. These services
are vertically organized and linked with county and township MCH centers.
The MCH centers provides both preventive and curative care. Health
education programs are aimed at improving environmental hygiene but lack
emphasis on control of chronic diseases and their associated risk factors.
Health education programs have been badly neglected in all three regions
over the last two decades with progressively smaller budget allocations and
today cannot deliver the many different informational services and programs
which should be expected of them.
D. Health Service Utilization
2.5       In all of the project areas, as in most other parts of China,
the city and provincial hospitals have high occupancy rates, long lengths
of stay, and many out-patient visits, whereas enterprise and county
hospitals have low occupancy rates, shorter lengths of stay and fewer out-
patients. In recent years, rural health investment has lagged behind that
in cities, and the tiered health services for most counties have not been
strengthened to meet demand by the rural residents for better quality care.
A growing number of rural residents are bypassing the tiered health
services and overloading city hospitals. With regard to resources for
financing health costs, Jiujiang and Baoji both have income levels below
the national average, whereas Jinhua is about average. Health expenditures
per capita range from about V28 in Jiujiang and Baoji to about 133 in
Jinhua, compared to a national average of 38 per capita. Insurance
coverage in the three regions (expressed as a percentage of the population)
is, respectively, 13%, 10% and 19%. All three regions have been
experiencing growth in health costs, a shift toward increasing hospital
based spending and decreasing public spending on primary prevention.
Additional details on public finance of health care in the regions is
provided in Annex 1, Tables 8-13.



- 14 -
III. THE PRO-JECT:
A. Project Objectives
3.1       In view of the complex problems confronting the health sector as
decentralization and reform has proceeded in China, the OPH wanted to
develop a new, more effective approach to health care provision. Nearly
all bureaus in MOPH and other leading health institutions and medical
universities have worked closely with the Bank and Chinese and foreign
experts since the spring of 1986 to develop the proposed approach.
3.2       The project combines features of a traditional project loan and
a sectoral investment. The aim of the project is to provide a systematic
framework within which China can experiment with integrated health regions,
and new approaches to health planning and health policies to deal with the
issues listed in paras. 1.18 to 1.23. The overall goal is to define better
future strategy for the sector. The framework provided by the project is
embodied in two instruments which underlie project preparation and
appraisal - a detailed set of Policy Guidelines (Annex 2) to stimulate and
direct local level planiing and decision making, and a system of regional
health planning with emphasis on annual reassessment and budgeting in the
light of experience. The Policy Guidelines were issued by the Ministry of
Public Health to the project provinces and regions on February 16, 1989.
The Guidelines introduce different emphases from those which characterize
the sector now. Under the Guidelines planning will be more needs-based and
objective-oriented, rather than linked to physical standards; management
priorities in health services will directed to efficiency, to appropriate
content of services and care and to systemic and staff changes to better
meet the problems of the future; delivery of health services will
emphasize greater targeting, cost-effectiveness, and much enhanced
monitoring of outcome. The Guidelines stress the need to prioritize
investments and programs in relation to assessed health needs, to formulate
reforms and incentives to reduce waste and mismanagement and develop the
institutional bases for lasting improvements in service delivery, and
regular assessment of progress with consequent program revisions. The
regional health planning approach is broad, analytically based, multi-
level, cross-institutional and objective-oriented, quite different from the
current approach of amalgamating unit budgets and vertical program
proposals without a unifying, strategic prioritization of needs and
programs. The process is intended gradually to become iterative, building
upon each year's performance and increasingly ir,volving lower level
institutions in the preparatory phases. A multiple level review and
approval process should result in allocations being more transparently
related to needs and goals than currently is the case.
3.3       Preparation of the project culminated in December, 1988 with the
drafting of indicative five-year regional healthi plans and supportingj
components at the provincial level. Appraisal of the project was based on
the overall soundness of the indicative five-year plans, their compliance
with the Policy Guidelines, the apparent commitment and capacity of the
regions to sustain this process and the specific budgets proposed for the



- 15 -
first year of the plans (1989). Both the indicative plans and the 1989
budget appropriations have been reviewed by MOPH and IDA, amended as
necessary, are acceptable and are contained in the Project File. Summary
costs for both the overall plans and the 1989 budgets are set out in Annex
3. The budget estimates are appropriations. Expenditure of the
appropriations would be stretched over about two years in the case of some
specific activities (e.g. procurement of equipment and construction). For
all practical purposes, the plan components and t-he project components in
each region are images of each other, and their objectives and component
activities are described in detail below. The project has the additional
objective mentioned above - to provide the framework within which China can
establish health tegions and the mechanisms for integrated planning,
management and supervision of health investments and services. After
successful completion of the project, the health regions should continue to
exist and be the object of subsequent multi-year 'regional health plans
and detailed annual budgets, largely financed by resources mobilized within
the region. The provincial level institutions should have gained
experience with policies and approach which would allow them to replicate
some or all of tne project approach in other regions within the province.
With the project, the pattern of health expenditures should be more
effective, more attention should be paid to prevention programs and health
education, hospitals should be more efficient and better utilized at al'
levels, and education and training should be more relevant in content and
effective in approach. Health services overall should be more responsive
to need, more community-based and have greater emphasis on ambulatory care.
3.4       The Rroject comprises the establishment of health regions at
Jinhua (Zhejiang province), Jiujiang (Jiangxi province), and Baoji (Shaanxi
province) to experiment with new ways to improve capability for planning
and deliverv of health services by dstablishing policy criteria and systems
for financing investments in the regions and supporting investments in
provincial level institutions. Tne project components at both regional and
provincial level are: (a) health pilanning, management and reform; (b)
disease prevention and surveillance; (c) health education; (d) maternal and
child health services; (e) emergency services; (f) hospital services; (g)
rehabilitative medical services; (h) medical education and training; and
(i) equipment management. Medical education, health education and
emergency service investments at the provincial level will receive
additional support beyond that needed to just support the project region,
in order that provincial capabilities in these key areas will be improved.
A national component to strengthen the capability of MOPHI to guide, assess
and replicate the project and to begin to deal with issues which transcend
the provincial and local levels is also supported by the project.
B. Co2Monents of the Project/Regional Plans
3.5       The regional plans, the supporting provincial proposals and
indicative five-year budget and appraised 1989 budgets have been organized
into nine components corresponding to the main health services addressed by
the plans. These various parts, along with the national component, are
described in the sections below. Throughout these components many aspects



- 16 -
of the activit4es to be undertaken, the stresa to be provided in provision
of new services, in planning, training, budgeting, assessment of progress
and many other aspects, take place only very little or not at all in the
health system in other parts of China. The processes, the focus and the
approaches to be used in each of the components outlined below represent
differences attributable to the Policy Guidelines and the project
preparation efforts which Government has made to find more eftective ways
to structure and provide health services.   The main features, particularly
of new or improved approaches and services are mentioned extensively in
paragraphs 3.6 to 3.47 below. Relevant parts Section II of the Policy
Guidelines in Annex 2 supplement the description of the new policy
environment which the project provides for the regions. Specific Guidelines
for support from Provincial institutions in support of the project regions
are also included in the Policy Guidelines, Section III.
3.6       Health Planning. Management and Reform (Policy Guidelines,
Section A). With this component the regiors and provinces will establish
and strengthen the institutional framework necessary to support a health
region and to facilitate study and experimentation on priority issues in
health management. The principal implementing agencies for this component
would be the health bureaus at the regional and provincial levels.
3.7       Regional Health Commissions (RHC) have been established in each
of the regions to manage planning of health services and coordinate and
supervise major activities under the project. The project provides for
staffing, upgrading or expansion of facilities and basic office equipment
for a project office as the secretariat of the RHC. Technical assistance
and training in health service planning, management, and administration
would be provided to staff of the project office and related departments
within the health bureaus. The component would include the participation
of health bureau staff in committees and working groups under the RHC for
technical consultation or in-depth review of, for example, coordination of
health institutions, hospital management and efficiency, equipment
management or emergency services. Resources are included in the project to
establish and maintain the project offices to handle day-to-day logistics
of project adrinistration in the regional and provincial health bureaus.
3.8       The component would also help to improve health information
systems in the regions. Information centers would be established under the
regional health bureau. Reporting systems would be strengthened for
standard registration of birth, death by major causes, immunizttions, and
incidence of selected acute and chronin disease. Coordination would be
improved among the city and county EPS, the hospitals, MCH centers, public
security offices, and fam..Ly p..anr4g offices, for more efficient collection
and analysis of data on health status, delivery of health services,
epidemiological trends and progress in project implementation. Reporting
and collection of information on health expenditures and financing would
also be improved so that information on total health costs and their source
of financing (budgetary, insurance or patient financed) would be available
on a regular basis. The component would provide for some construction,



- 17 -
upgrading of facilities, purchase of computer equipment and technical
assistance and training in data management and statistical analysis.
3.9       Review and experimentation would be undertaken in pricing and
payment for health services. In cooperation with the local price bureaus,
the regional health bureaus would study in detail the costs of standard
health services, with a view toward adjusting charges as necessary. The
health bureaus would review the use of major medical equipment and
reinforce standards for cost recovery and depreciation costing. The
component would also include introduction or expansion of insurance
schemes. Experiments with cooperative insurance programs would be carried
out in selected rural areas, mainly to ensure access to basic services and
provide coverage for those now uninsured in the event of catastrophic
illness. In urban areas, copayments and deductibles would be developed for
government staff and enterprise workers insurance programs. Health
Maintenance Organization programs would be tried in selected townships.
The project would provide technical assistance and program support cotts
for carrying out these investigations and reforms.
3.10      To ensure adequate emphasis on improvement in primary health
care, especially in rural counties, the regions have provided in their
plans for a portion of budgetary allocations to county and township
governments, and to some individual health institutions, to be reserved in
a primary health care fund. These resources would be used to train primary
level health workers and purchase basic equipment for the village and!
township health centers.
3.11      Disease Surveillance and Prevention (Policy Guidelines, Section
B). This component aims to improve disease surveillance and information
management, to strengthen capability for identifying groups at high risk of
death and illness and to target delivery of primary and secondary disease
prevention programs that will reduce morbidity and mortality. The
component would assist the epidemic prevention stations (EPS) to adopt more
cost effective approaches to monitoring and prevention of communicable and
endemic diseases and allow them to expand and reorient their services to
include the major chronic diseases.
3.12      Computing equipment, upgrading of facilities, program support
costs and technical assistance to improve technology for data collectior,
analysis and utilization would be provided. Staff of the EPS would be
trained in the design of field surveys for scientific analysis of problems
and testing of health interventions. These systems would be integrated
into the overall regional health information system (para. 3.8). Resources
would also be provided for publishing epidemiological analyses of the
health regions.
3.13      Technical assistance would be provided to help the EPS define
priorities for health services using the improved information i-ase.
Program support costs would be provided to assist the EPS in cobmiunicating
the findings of disease surveillance to other health units in the region
and coordinating their eff-rts to reduce health problems.   There would be



* 18 -
in-service training of health workers in the EPS to enable them to adapt to
more cost effective ways to respond to high rates and occasional outbreaks
of acute infectious disease, especially gastroenteritis and to deal with
chronic communicable and endemic diseases, such as tuberculosis and
schistosomiasis. They would also receive training in new specialized tasks
relating to, for example, occupational medicine and chronic non-
communicable disease prevention. As appropriate, the regions plan to
continue to devote resources to controlling communicable diseases
3.14      The project would provide equipment for effective approaches to
screening and diagnosis. Investment in new equipment would be according to
a tiered system, wherein the county level EPS would be equipped primarily
with basic instruments such as microscopes, simple spectrophotometers, and
biochemical analyzers; equipment to undertake more sophisticated
environmental monitoring and complex diagnostic tests would normally be
located in the city EPS or hospitals. Vehicles would be provided and
equipped with appropriate instruments to improve outreach services to rural
areas.
3.15      Health Education (Policy Guidelines, Section C).  This component
of the regional plans gives much higher priority than at present to
regional and provincial efforts to develop broad-based health education
programs. These will address priority health problems by helping to change
behaviors linked to the onset of prevalent diseases. Current programs
focus mainly on promoting hygiene and preventing spread of infectious
disease but would be broadened to shift more attention and resources
gradually to health education aimed at prevention of chronic diseases and
injury.
3.16      The context of health education programs would be expanded to
emphasize the avoidance or reduction of important risk factors. Specific
plan priorities vary according to each regional situation. In Jiujiang,
there would be special emphasis on the persistent problems of
schistosomiasis, and tuberculosis. The program in Baoji would target
tuberculosis, anemia and goiter and would promote immunization,
particularly in the rural counties. Jinhua plans to address hypertension,
occupational hazards, poisoning and accidents. In each region, anti-
smoking education and control initiatives would be launched with the aim of
reducing smoking prevalence.
3.17      Key institutions to implement this component are the provincial
and regional health education institutions, county level EPS and township
health centers. There would also be strong emphasis on integrating health
education into the work of other health institutions and community-based
groups. Committees are being formed to promote coordination of health
education efforts in health bureaus, hospitals, medical education and
training institutions, enterprises, schools, local branches of the
patriotic hnalth campaign committee and women's federations. The 1989 plan
budget includes specific focus on sensitizing provincial and local leaders
to the importance of health education and enlisting the support of local
mass media in channelling health education messages.



- 19 -
3.18      A variety of activities would develop the institutional
capability of the regions and provinces to design and implement health
education programs. Technical assistance would help the professional
health education staff in targeting priorities and developing strategies.
(Sev.ral wrrkshoos on health education and anti-smoking programs with
fore:a.gn and domestic experts have been held during proiect preparation.)
Additional staff would be recrtited to health education institutions and
health education units in hospitals and the local health bureaus. The
health education institutions would be assisted in developing capability to
train doctors, nurses, midwives, school employees and health staff in
enterprises to adopt health education as part of their roles in working
with patients and the community at large.
3.19      Capability in production and use of health education materials
would be improved. Equipment for producing audio-visual and written
materials would be provided mainly at the provincial level. Regional
health education institutions and county EPS would acquire televisions,
projectors and other small equipment, in conjunction with basic skills
training, for the use of health education materials. Allocations are
provided at the provincial and regional levels to ensure adequate supplies
of health education materials for dissemination in the regions.
3.20      The component would support development of physical
infrastructure for health education. Health education institutions would
be constructed at provincial and regional level to serve as centers for
tAchnical guidance for public health education programs and services and
for training of health education workers. Facilities, basic furniture and
equipment for health education units within existing EPS would also be
upgraded. Vehicles would be purchased to support outreach of health
education programs and training of health workers, especially in remote
rural areas where needs are greatest.
3.21      Foreign and local technical assistance would help to introduce
techniques for monitoring and evaluation of the impact of health education
on specific behaviors. Provision of program support costs would enable
health education staff in the EPS to conduct surveys of risk prevalence and
to disseminate their findings. Indicators of the effectiveness of health
education would be developed annually and used to monitor Implementation
and to readjust proposals and budgets for subsequent years of the project.
3.22      Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Services (Policy Guidelines,
Section D). The objective is to reduce infant and maternal mortality and
morbidity in the health regions by improving prenatal and child care at the
primary level and developing a regional system for perinatal services and
referral. Each regional plan seeks to incorporate health education into
MCH care; strengthen services to detect and treat major obstetric,
gynecological and pediatric diseases; improve systems for identifying and
referring high risk pregnancies; and develop mechanisms for monitoring the
growth of preschool and school age children.



- 20 -
3.23      At the primary care level, extensive training would be provided
to upgrade skills of midwives and other lower level staff of township and
village health centers. Prenatal care would be emphasized. Health workers
would be trained in assessing risk in pregnancies. In some cases, MCH care
facilities at local health centers would be rehabilitated or expanded and
equipment upgraded to improve services in managing anemia, pneumonia and
other common MCH problems.
3.24      Each regional plan provides for the establishment or upgrading
of a principal institution for referral of high risk pregnancies. In
Jiujiang, the component would provide for rehabilitation of an existing MCH
hospital, including addition of outpatient facilities. In Jinhua, a
central MCH station would be built to provide care for normal deliveries
and for training of health professionals and birth attendants, while the
municipal general hospital would be the referral center for high risk
cases. In Baoji, the component includes completion of an MCH hospital.
Workers in MCH hospitals would be trained in management of infant health
problems, including hypothermia, hyperbilirubinemia and infection, and in
problems affecting women such as eclampsia, hemorrhage and infection.
3.25      A range of equipment would be purchased to support improved
services using cost-effective technology for each level of care. Kits of
basic instruments would be provided to midwives. Vehicles and equipment
such as incubators, bilirubinometers, and phototherapy devices would be
supplied to hospitals. The MCH centers and units would be provided with
simple computers and technical assistance for monitoring the management of
perinatal care. Analysis of the causes of infant and maternal death would
be used to provide feedback to MCH health workers.
3.26      Emergency Services (Policy Guidelines, Section E).  The
component will institute networks of emergency services in the health
regions and in the provincial capital cities so that more effective
emergency care can be provided within a reasonable response time. At both
levels the component would emphasize the primary importance on pre-hospital
care, first aid, life-sustaining rescue technique and timely transport.
Present approaches and practices in these areas are now seriously
deficient. At the regional level the plans are well-prepared and include
emphasis on development of good first aid and emergency services in the
outlying county areas, a strong pre-hospital care thrust and well-chosen,
simple equipment and training programs. At the regional level there is an
appropriate emphasis on development of an urban network to meet the city's
needs and provision of referral capacity to provide training and guidance
to county-level emergency staff and to handle those complex cases which are
referred to the tertiary care institution in the city. In the provincial
capital city emergency centers would also be upgraded or established within
existing tertiary hospitals to provide specialized bases for urgent
treatment. Transport and referral of patients to these specialized centers
would be coordinated by an emergency command center charged with ensuring
effective pre-hospital services, ambulance dispatch and control,
appropriate patient referral and coordination of rescue support activities
for major disasters. While regional plans and proposals were satisfactory



- 21 -
for approval of 1989 plans, provincial capital city proposals did not yet
adequately reflect the Policy Guidelines and further improvements in these
capital city components need to be made before commencing majcr investment.
Review in late 1989 of the 1990 budget proposals would examine preparation
of the provincial emergency service component prior to approval of any
major investments. At both levels a referral system would be set up for
patient rescue and transport from specific catchment areas, and more
efficient communication systems would be established. Technical
assistance, including an overseas technical *risit for provincial and
regional officials, would be provided to help each region improve draft
master plans to link pre-hospital rescue with hospital emergency care.
Vehicles would be purchased to upgrade the fleet of ambulances in each
area, and rescue workers would receive emergency care training.
3.27       Improvements in hospital emergency facilities would emphasize
limiting emergency rooms to the function of stabilizing patients and
avoiding the tendency to develop a 'hospital within a hospital.' On the
basis of strengths of individual hospitals in such areas as neurosurgery,
orthopedics or burn management, the emergency plan would establish
protocols for referral of patients. Emergency centers within these
referral networks would be refurbished to increase capability for
stabilizing patients and transferring cases efficiently to other
specialized departments within the hospital. Specialized training would be
provided to emergency room personnel. In some cases, construction would be
undertaken to replace older buildings or expand cramped or poorly designed
facilities.
3.28      At the community level, the component would support health
education on injury control and first aid. The regional emergency center
and health education institute would provide technical assistance and
resources for disseminating messages on safety and first aid through mass
media, audio-visual programs and written materials. A 'first aid month"
would be sponsored each year to emphasize public awareness and provide
basic skills training to police, fire rescue workers, drivers, construction
workers and teachers. Improved capability to undertake basic emergency
services in the regions and the provincial capital cities would be
strengthened through intensive training of paramedics and provision to them
of simple equipment for respiratory maintenance and circulatory support.
3.29      An emergency services coordinating group would be formed in each
region to manage major emergencies. Members would include the directors of
health, public security, transport, and drug control personnel. The
committee would support and coordinate the mobilization of resources from
various institutions in health and other sectors. An overall objective of
the component is to experiment with introduction of an accreditation
system, development of a career path, and reformed wage scale for emergency
health care workers and ambulance drivers.  The nat-onal component (see
para. 3.52) would provide technical assistance and program support
resources for MOPH to help formulate, enact and guide these reforms.



- 22 -
3.30      HosDital Services (Policy Guidelines, Section F).  The objective
of this component is to increase the quality of health services of
hospitals and clinics through improving management, efficiency of
operation, facilities, medical technology and the skills and productivity
of hospital workers. It is expected that these improvements would
contribute to reducing the long lengths of stay in larger hospitals and
improving the utilization of lower level and smaller facilities. The
implementing agencies at the primary level would be the township health
centers (rural areas) and street level clinics (urban areas) , the county
and urban district hospitals at the secondary level, and the city and
provincial hospitals at the tertiary level.
3.31      Under the guidance of the Regional Hospital Management
Commission, horizontal cooperation and integration of services would be
improved among tertiary hospitals and other health facilities within a
region (see para. 3.6). In each region, health institutions administered
by enterprises, the military or other institutions outside the formal
health sector have now made accessible to the general public and are
providing considerable outpatient and inpatient care. City hospitals would
improve arrangements with county and township health facilities to
coordinate referral of patients and promote collaboration among medical
personnel in providing effective patient care. Within the main hospitals,
management committees, comprising the hospital director and department
heads and representatives of the regional health bureau, are being
established. The project supports internal restructuring of these
hospitals, such as the establishment and staffing of preventive medicine
departments and the allocation of personnel to health education programs.
3.32      Civil construction would be undertaken to rehabilitate, replace
or supplement hospital facilities. Unsafe buildings would be demolished
and replaced. In select cases, new construction would be undertaken to
integrate fragmented hospital campuses and to replace outmoded facilities.
Existing facilities would be expanded where buildings are insufficient to
serve the most urgent requirements of the current and projected volume of
patients.
3.33      The plans provide for hospitals to implement a variety of
measures to reduce length of stay. Laboratory facilities would be improved
to provide pre-admission diagnosis, which would reduce the period patients
must stay in hospital prior to surgery. Protocols for patient management
would be established to increase efficiency in release or transfer of
patients who do not require tertiary level care. Steps would be taken to
reduce hospital-acquired infections by raising overall standards of
cleanliness and improving management of contaminated materials.
3.34      The project would provide investments to improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of technology and to address shortages of basic
equipment. Obsolete laboratory equipment would be replaced to improve the
timeliness and precision of diagnosis as well as patient safety.
Appropriate higher level technology would be located in a designated
central laboratory for the region. The component would also provide for



- 23 -
purchase of diagnostic and therapeutic equipment required at the secondary
and tertiary level for treatment of chronic diseases; some basic equipment
would be provided to primary level institutions. Basic hospital supplies
such as beds, operating tables and instruments, and housekeeping supplies
would be provided at all levels.
3.35      Improvements in operating efficiency and technology would be
supported through programs to develop human resources. Qualification
standards would be defined for various levels of personnel, and a peer
review system would be instituted for physicians. Managers would receive
training in hospital administration. Specialists would be recruited to
establish units of preventive medicine and health education. Lab
technicians would be trained in the operation and servicing of new
equipment. Doctors and nurses would receive substantial in-service
training to help orient them to preventive approaches, advances in the
treatment of major chronic disease, and quality assurance in patient care.
3.36      Rehabilitative medical services (Policy Guidelines, Section G).
The objective is to assess needs for rehabilitative care and to experiment
with and develop effective approaches to rehabilitative medical services in
China to rationalize the delivery of services by shifting resources for
restorative, palliative and custodial care now provided in hospitals into
more cost-effective outpatient and community programs that will help
patients regain functions to the extent possible. This would contribute to
reducing the excessive lengths of stay in many hospitals and providing
better care for more patients. The provincial health bureaus would assist
in analyzing and revising protocols for rehabilitative services. The main
implementing agencies would be hospitals at the regional level.
3.37      Hospitals would be assisted to carry out surveys in their
catchment areas to analyze the major causes and prevalence of disability in
the community. Analysis would include disabilities related to
cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease, arthritis, respiratory ailments
and mental illness and accidents. Survey findings would provide a basis
for mobilizing health units and raising public awareness and cooperation
among other regional government agencies (such as the education and civil
administration bureaus), and non-governmental or volunteer groups.
3.38      Separate departments of rehabilitative medical services,
including oatpatient facilities, would be established in key city
hospitals. In these hospitals and in community level units, rehabilitative
services would be provided as an additional, essential element to primary
health care programs. In some cases, centers would be developed in
hospitals of traditional Chinese medicine, which are often referral centers
for patients who require rehabilitative care, especially elderly people.
Facilities and programs for outpatient psychiatric care which are now
virtually non-existent in general hospitals would be established and some
general hospitals would experiment with short-term psychiatric beds as
alternatives to the present practice of institutionalizing persons in need
of inpatient care.   Through the rehabilitative centers, hospitals would
organize trial bases for community rehabilitative services, including home



- 24 -
visit programs and the training of patients' family members in, for
example, the use of prostheses or simple exercise therapy. Equipment and
training in rehabilitative therapeutics would also be provided to upsrade
the methods used by health workers in hospitals. Vehicles would be
purchased to facilitate home care programs.
3.39      Medical Education and Training (Policy Guidelines, Section H).
The objective of this component is to increase the numbers of well-trained
health workers in the project regions and provinces. Assistance would be
provided in the management of medical colleges, continuing medical
education, clinical practice at field bases, and specialized professional
training. The project would also support badly needed upgrading of basic
residential and study facilities at institutions for medical education and
training. The participating agencies in Baoji, Jinhua and Jiujiang would
be the regional medical college, the secondary school for medical training
and county training center. The participating institutions at the province
level are the provincial medical colleges, which are five-year, post-
secondary schools, except Shaanxi's which is a three-year college. The
project component would assist these institutions to improve the quality
and quantity of physicians not only for the regions but the provinces'
overall requirements.
3.40      Teacher education would be strengthened in each region and
province with technical assistance for redesign of curricula and testing
procedures. In-service courses and workshops in the new curricula would be
provided to teachers, along with training in the use of alternative
instructional methods   Teachers' skills would be developed in using
audiovisual materials and supplementing lecture and demonstration in
teaching laboratories with practical, hands-on exercises.
3.41      Assistance in basic (preclinical) education would help to
strengthen curricula in introductory science courses, lab work and basic
medical principles. Curricula would be changed to introduce a variety of
elective courses in applied laboratory and clinical work. Technical
assistance would be provided to assist school administrators in improving
space utilization and class scheduling. Operating budgets would be
increased to improve the resources and lengthen the operating hours of
school facilities such as laboratories and libraries. In clinical medical
education, activities would focus on strengthening course design and
materials for learning primar-y and secondary prevention. Practice teaching
bases would be established in selected county hospitals in each region to
provide students opportunity for greater exposure to clinical practice.  At
the provincial level, earlier introduction of clinical experience for
students would be undertaken at university-affiliated hospitals to
strengthen applied understanding and professional skills.
3.42      The curriculum in preventive medicine would be reviewed under
the project and broadened to include a public health perspective for the
clinical practitioner and community health worker. New learning materials
would be produced and disseminated. In addition to formal education, in-
service training would be provided for to help health workers reorient



- 25 -
their work toward primary prevention, better clinical practice, and
community medicine. This training would be emphasized in Baoji region,
where an estimated 40 percent of health workers have had no formal
education.
3.43      The regions and provinces have allocated considerable resources
in their indicative plans to developing the quality and supply of learning
resources, especially for education in preventive health care strategies
and techniques.  In general, development of capacity to produce texts and
audio-visual materials would be supported for learning resource centers at
the provincial level, while the regions would be helped to acquire the
equipment, supplies and skills necessary to use the materials.  To help
ensure that materials are disseminated, the provincial institutions have
planned budgets for distributing materials to the regions; in some cases,
budgets of regional health institutions include allocations for purchase of
written and audio-visual materials from the provinces. The plan also
provides for upgrading of equipment for teaching, laboratories and for
practical equipment students are likely to use in their medical careers.
3.44      Support for facilities management would be provided to improve
the physical environment for teaching and learning. The project would
finance rehabilitation of deteriorated buildings and development of
maintenance systems. Some basic furniture and equipment would be purchased
for student dormitories, classrooms, dining areas and libraries. In select
cases, new facilities would be constructed. The project would also support
improvement of educational administration, through the purchase of some
computer equipment and training in accounting and records management.
3.45      Equioment Management (Policy Guidelines, Section I).  This
component is aimed at building capability in the project provinces and
regions to plan for acquisition of equipment and to develop systems for its
maintenance and repair. Each region and province would establish an
equipment management committee comprising medical personnel, biomedical
engineers, and specialists in finance and economics. The committee would
be responsible under the direction of the provincial or regional health
bureau for developing a provincial or regional equipment plan and reviewing
proposed major purchases of equipment to ensure the acquisition is
justified and the necessary skills for appropriate use and maintenance are
available. The committees would review and approve proposed purchases of
imported equipment.
3.46      The component would also help to establish or upgrade medical
equipment service centers at the provincial and regional levels. The
provincial centers would support regional centers through establishing
technical standards, and providing training and technical guidance.
The main tasks of the regional and provincial centers would be to document
existing equipment and maintain up-to-date inventories; develop
repositories of spare parts; service equipment in hospitals and health
institutions throughout their respective catchment areas; provide technical
guidance on programs for maintenance within health institutions; conduct



- 26 -
training programs in repair and maintenance; and gradually develop a
network of maintenance and repair facilities.
3.47      Some construction would be financed to address space shortages
and develop additional facilities for storage and maintenance. Equipment
would be purchased for testing, maintenance and repair of medical
instruments. The project would also provide for initial purchases of
inventories of key spare parts. Replenishment of these inventories would
be financed through the sale of spare parts to health institutions. Staff
would be trained and upgraded in technical areas, such as maintenar.ce of x-
ray and ultrasound machines, and general electronics. Technical assistance
would be sought from other centers in China that have been successful in
maintaining and repairing equipment.
3.48      National Component.  A national component would strengthen
national level health management capabilities of the Ministry of Public
Health (M1OPH) through policy evaluation, development and dissemination of
cost-effective strategies and technical guidance in the following areas:
disease and risk factor surveillance and information management; prevention
and treatment of communicable, endemic and chronic disease, maternal and
child health services; hospital planning and management; emergency service
networks; community based rehabilitation programs; and medical and health
education and training programs. The specific objectives would be to
enable MOPH: a) to provide leadership, policy and technical support to the
regions and provinces in experimentation and reform of health service
planning and delivery in the implementing regions; b) to review and
approve the annual plan and budget proposals from each region and province
and to supervise implementation of the project with regard to consistency
of actual activities and the Policy Guidelines; c) to undertake studies
and policy research on health system development issues for the three
provinces and regions. This would include, among other things,
establishment of an office of smoking and health within the office of the
Central Patriotic Health Campaign Committee (CPHCC) to initiate draft
legislation, regulatory measures, health education programs and research on
control of cigarette smoking and establishment of effective regulations
and policies for emergency care and services; and d) to distill and
disseminate the experience during implementation of the five-year regional
plans, with a view toward policies and practical, cost-effective approaches
that could be replicated across the project regions and in other areas of
the country.
3.49      In relation to the first two elements of this component the
project would provide resources for MOPH to undertake direct supervision
and technical assistance. MOPH would provide training programs, seminars,
expert visits and technical assistance to the regions and undertake
specific studies related to project implementation and health strategy
development. Domestic and foreign technical assistance in assessment of
health revenues and expenditures would be provided to the bureaus of MOPff
to help the regions monitor financial trends under their plans. This would
include preparation by the regions of consolidated estimates of
expenditures for health similar to those presented in Annex 1, Tables 8 -



- 27 -
13. Such information is generally not now available in China and would
help MOPH to assess trends and adjust policies much better than is possible
at present. Relevant bureaus of NOPH would be assisted to improve
capability in identifying and selecting emong alternative approaches to
meeting health needs in the regions and prov!nces. MOPH would also receive
technical assistance in analytical techniques for identifying and
controlling tendencies which may increase health care costs without health
status gains or may contribute to inequity in access to health services.
MOPH would undertake with foreign technical assistance studies of cost
effectiveness in regional health services and of alternatives for cost-
sharing among various levels of government and health institutions.
(Annexure 2 to the Policy Guidelines provides further detail for assessing
cost-effectiveness in health programs.)
3.50      The third element of this component would support the role of
the Central Patriotic Health Campaign Committee (CPHCC) and the National
Health Education Institute under the CPHCC in health risk factor analysis
and health education. CPHCC is establishing an office of smoking and
health which would be provided resources and technical assistance to carry
out annual surveys of smoking prevalence in sample groups from
representative areas throughout China. Findings of the CPHCC annual survey
would be published in a national report on smoking and related morbidity
and mortality and on the economic impact of trends in smoking, which would
be issued each year. CPHCC would receive technical assistance in designing
health education interventions around preventive strategies. The component
would also support program costs to enable CPHCC to design training
materials and modules that could be disseminated to the project areas as
well as to other parts of China. As its own capability develops, CPHCC
would guide and train the project regions and provinces to carry out
research on risk exposure.
3.51      In conjunction with the emergency services component of the
regional and provincial plans, MOPH would work toward establishing
regulations for pre-hospital rescue and emergency and hospital care. The
National Association of Emergency Medicine would collaborate to draft and
issue regulations on emergency services and develop an accreditation system
for emergency rescue and health care workers. In doing so, the wage
structure for these workers would be reviewed for possible restructuring.
Standard job descriptions would be prepared and used as the basis for
developing training courses which could be used throughout the country.
3.52      To assist MOPH with the last element of this component the
project would provide funds to organize and host national workshops during
each year of the project to serve as a forum for reporting, analysis and
dissemination of experience under the project. Participants would include
representatives from the three regions and provinces, as well as officials
from other parts of China and selected foreign experts. Output of the
workshops would be revision and strengthening of the policy guidelines.
MOPH would also prepare a handbook describing methodology, standards,
objectives, and approaches to dissemination of the regional health services
concept.



- 28 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs Estimates
4.1       Summary of Costs.  The total cost of the project components is
estimated at V419 million or US$113 million equivalent, net of duties and
taxes. The estimated costs of the indicative five year plans by component
and by expenditure category are summarized below in Tables 4.1 and 4.2.
Summarized costs are presented in Annex 3, including the 1989 summary
budgets as appraised.
4.2       Cost Estimates.  Costs are based on end-1988 prices for similar
items of equipment and types of construction contracts recently procured.
Civil works costs are derived from space estimates and unit costs provided
by an architectural survey team which assessed the specific conditions in
major institutions in the regions and the requirements for rehabilitation
and new construction in smaller institutions. The average cost range of
the various types of rehabilitation and construction was US$50-150 per
square meter, with variation due mainly to the higher costs of civil works
for laboratory facilities. Equipment costs are based on detailed equipment
lists provided by the project provinces and regions. Local technical
assistance will mainly be provided by staff from academic and research
institutions. Foreign technical assistance will mainly be provided by
staff of public sector agencies and the costs of international travel will
be shared among the regions which helps to substantially reduce unit costs.
Local training costs were estimated to range from US$35-110 per month
depending on the duration, level and type of course. Foreign training is
estimated to cost an average of US$2500 per month. Given that the Credit
finances part of an indicative five year plan of expenditures subject to
change through annual review, physical and price contingencies have not
been included in cost estimates. The first year budget (1989) has been
appraised, but the precise annual expenditures in subsequent years would be
determined through annual reviews of need and availability of counterpart
resources.  The Association would finance about 46% of total annual and
total plan expenditures.
4..       Foreign Exchange Costs.  The foreigni exchange costs are
estimated at about V 58.3 million (US$15.7 million) equivalent to about 14%
of project costs (about 30% of the Credit) and are estimated to be
distributed by type of expenditure as follows: equipment and vehicles, 38
%; training, 15.5 %; technical assistance, 34 %.
B. Financing Plan
4.4       The credit would finance about 46 % of the total five year
investment program in the regions and the supporting provincial and
national components. It would cover all foreign exchange costs ($15.7
million) and approximately 37 % of local costs (equivalent to $36.3
million). The regional and provincial governments would finance the



- 29 -
balance of the project costs for their components. The MO2H would finance
the share (25 %) of its incremental program support costs not included in
the credit. The Government would cnlend SDR 38.6 million in equal sthares
to the three provinces at an interest rate of 2.5k, repayable over 20
years, including a 5 year graca period. SDR 800,000 would be made
available to the Ministry of Public Health. The provinces would bear the
foreign exchange risk except for those foreign currency resources directly
used by the regions. At the province and regional level naither the health
sector, nor specific health institutions, would be responsible for any debt
service as a result of investments financed under the project. At
negotiations, assurances were received that the provinces will make
available to their respective regions part of the proceeds of the credit
for carrying out the project on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.
4.5       Financial Impact and Affordability.  At the end of the project,
annual recurrent costs attributable to new staff ($1.5 million),
appropriate maintenance ($1.6 million), and continuance of some operational
costs of new and expanded health programs (about $1-3 million) will need to
be funded. About 90% of these costs will be at the regional level. This
would be at most an average of $2 million in RMB equivalent per year per
region.  This amounts to a relatively small share (about 7%) of total
health expenditures in the regions today. Overall costs for health
services, including these, will have to continue to be recovered from
users, or from budget subsidies.  If present policies continue, only base
staff salaries and the costs of public prevention programs will pose net
drains on overall public revenues. As base salaries are supported from
higher levels these will not impinge on regional finances. Policy changes
adopted in this project to create greater efficiency, refe-Cussing of
priorities, control of costs, and price changes are also expected to reduce
costs and improve regional health budgets.



- 30 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT
% of
US$ Million             Yuan Million       foreign
Plan Components   Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
Health Management
& Reform          4.7      0.2      4.9      17.5      0.8    18.3    4.5%
Disease Prevention
and Surveillance 14.8      1.8     16.5      54.7      6.6    61.4   10.8%
Health Education    7.5      1.0       8.6     28.0      3.8    31.8   11.9%
Maternal & Child
Health Services   7.4      0.5      7.9      27.3      1.8    29.1    6.2%
Emergency Services 11.4      2.3     13.7      42.3      8.5    50.9   16.8%
Hospital Services  22.7      6.1     28.8      84.1     22.6   106.7   21.2%
Rehabilitative
Services          4.2      0.2      4.4      15.5      0.7    16.3    4.5%
Medical Education
ar.d Training    20.1      2.2     22.3      74.5      8.3    82.7   10.0%
Equipment Manage-
ment               3.3     0.6      3.9      12.4      2.2    14.6   15.2%
National Component  1.3      0.8       2.0      4.7      2.9      7.6   38.1%
Total /e          97.3    15.7    113.0    361.1      58.3   419.4   13.9%
/a   Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.



- 31 -
Tabl4.2   ShSUMnARY PROJECT COST BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(US$ Million)
New  incr
Pro-  mti   Main-  w
Plan Components           CiV;1  Equip  Train- Tech  gram   0ser. tenan  Staf
Work  -ment Ing   Assist  Cost  Cost  oe    Coat  TotaW
Health Management and Reforms    0.1   1.0  0.8   0.2   2.1   0.2   0.1   0.3   4.9
Disease Prevention and Surveillance   3.5   4.6   0.9   0.3   4.4   0.9   0.9   1.1   16.5
Health Education          2.0   1.9   0.6   0.4   2.7   0.4   0.4   0.4   8.6
Maternal and Child Health Services   25   2.1   0.4  0.1   0.7   0.3   0.4   1.4   7.9
Emergency Service         3.0   6.0   0.8   0.2   0.9   1.2   1.1   0.6   13.7
Hospitai ServIces         13.6  10.3  0.6   0.2   0.7   1.2   1.4   0.8   28.8
Rehabilitative Services   1.6   0.9   0.3   0.2   0.8   0.2   0.2   0.2    4.4
Medical Education and Training  72   7.0   0.6   0.3   3.4   1.a   1.5   0.7   22.3
Equipment Management      0.6   2.4  0.1   0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1    3.9
National Component        0.0   0.0   0.3   0.   0.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.0
Totai                 34.1  38.0  5.3   2.9   16.7  6.1   6.3   5.7   113.0
V.  ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Prolect Management
5.1       Regional and Provincial Institutions.  Within each province, the
vice governor responsible for social services has been designated as the
senior official in charge of the project. A project office has been
established in each provincial and regional health bureau and a project
manager, accountant, procurement officer and various technical staff have
been assigned. The project offices will keep accourtms, coordinate
appropriate aspects of local procurement, supervise project implementation,
provide progress reports, ensure coordination of Health Bureau Divisions in
supervising application of the Policy Guidelines and act as the secretariat
for day-to-day administration of the project. Assurances were received
during negotiations that the Provincial Project Offices would be maintained
throughout project implementation with appropriate functions and staffing.
In each of the three regions, a Regional Health Commission (RHC) has been
established under the vice mayor to decide regionasl health policy.
Commission members include representatives from the regional health bureau
and other departments of the regional government (such as the bureaus for
ir.dustry, personnel, agriculture, planning, finance and prices) whose
activities are important in coordinating or supporting health activities.
Implementation arrangements would provide that the regions would maintain
the RHCs throughout project implementation with functions and composition
acceptable to the Association. (Annex 2, Policy Guidelines, para. 8 and 9)



- 32 -
5.2       Each region has also established a system of committees under
the RHC to address specific areas of health policy, such as disease
surveillance, maternal and child health care, and hospital management, and
to submit policy and investment recommendations to the RHC. In general,
these committees are composed of technical experts from the regional health
bureau as well as county le-sl health officials, managers of public
hospitals and enterprise or military medical facilities and representatives
of local women's organizations. Day-to-day project management will be the
responsibility of the regional health bureau and project office in each
region, but overall decision-making authority on such matters as
consolidation or upgrading of facilities will reside with the RHC.
5.3       Regional Planning Process.  The process of regional planning
(Annex 2, Policy Guidelines, paras. 6-24) begins with the individual health
units in a given region. Jsing epidemiological analysis and the policy
guidelines as a basis for program development, hospitals, the EPS and MCH
units from county and city levels submit proposed programs and investments
to the respective county or district health bureau for review and
consolidation with other proposals. County/district plans are then
forwarded to the project office of the RHC in the regional health bureau
where they are clarifie.l, debated, synthesized and presented to the RHC as
a draft of the region's annual plan within the five year plan framework.
Once approved by the RHC, the draft plan is reviewed by the provincial
health, planning and finance bureaus, together with proposals for
supporting investments in the provincial capital, and then forwarded to the
NOPH for final review a-id a:proval in consultation with the Association.
This process is illustrated in Chart 3.
B.   Proiect Monitoring
5.4       The World Bank Loan Office (WBLO) of MOPH, already established
for the two previous health projects, would coordinate the activities of
each of MOPH's technical bureaus involved in review, evaluation and
approval of regional health plans. At negotiations, assurance was received
that the Borrower would maintain the World Bank Loan Office within MOPH
throughout the project implementation period with appropriate functions and
staffing.
5.5       MOPH would review regional plans for:  consistency with policy
guidelines; clear application of administrative, financial and public
health principles to needs identified in the plans; and inclusion of
measures of progress. Consultation on each year's budget appropriation for
the project and revision of the regional plans would take place annually
with the Association. IDA review of the province components and the
regions' draft annual plans would be held in conjunction with review and
approval of these by MOPH. An additional mid-year review may be held if
needed to take stock -f progress and resolve issues emerging during early
years of project implementation. NOPH would also sponsor a national
workshop each year to discuss and evaluate progress in implementation.
Special considerations involved in monitoring this kind of project and
suggested indicators to be used are described in Annex 5. The review



- 33 -
process may result in modification of the policy guidelines during project
implementation. During negotiations assurances were received that: (a) the
Borrower and the Association shall annually prior to the beginrling of each
of the Borrower's fiscal years exchange views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Policy Guidelines, the Regional Health Plans and the
provincial components under the project; (b) prior to each such exchange
of views, the Borrower shall furnish to %.he Association for its review and
comment a progress report, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request including the progress in carrying out the regional
health plans and the provincial components under the project according to
indicators agreed with the Association;   (c) the Borrower shall ensure
that during it's fiscal year disbursements by each of the implementing
regions and the provinces out of the proceeds of the Credit will be made
only after the broad parameters of such fiscal year's program and budget
under each of the regional health plans and provincial components shall
have beer. reviewed and fotund to be generally acceptable by both MOPH and
the Association.
5.6       Bank supervision strategy for this project will be important to
the institutional development goals envisaged. During the first years of
the pr^iect the most active aspects of critical review and guidance for
changes in the annual budget plans of the regions and the provincial health
bureaus should be increasingly provided by the MOPH, through its various
technical bureaus, coordinated by the WBLO. Use of the annual plan review
provides MOPH a powerful lever, which today does not exist in other
contexts of the MOPH's work, to help influence change and valuable
experimentation at the provincial and regional level. During the first two
years of the project Bank supervision missions should involve the direct
participation of MOPH bureau staff to allow a good start to this process.
Subsequent years of the project should involve MOPH assuming more of the
supervision function with Bank review becoming easier, less time-consuming,
and focussed on the assessment of the broader impact and drawing out the
lessons of potential replication of the project. Supervision coefficients
for the project should be anticipated to be higher than normal for China
proiects and emphasis in staffing of supervision teams should be on
internationally recognized leadere in the difficult areas of chronic
disease prevention, new approaches to health education, hospital
management, and medical education training reforms. Membership of these
teams should also emphasize familiarity with China and continuity of
personnel. The selective use of Chinese consultants as members of these
teams, as was done during project preparation, should be both beneficial to
the Bank's effectiveness and help to reduce costs.
C.   Implementation Arrangements
5.7       Assurances were received at negotiations that MOPH, the
provinces and the regions will enter into an agreement, acceptable to the
Association, on implementation arrangements to confirm the procedures and
criteria which will be required of the regions for implementation of the
project.  Signing of this agreement would be a condition of Credit



- 34 -
Effectiveness. The terms and conditions of this agreement would include
the following provisions:
(a) each of the regions will carry out its respective part of the
Project in accordance with the Policy Guidelines and with its
Regional Health Plan under the supervision of MOPH and the
provinces;
(b) the provinces will not pass the foreign exchange risk associated
with local currency financing out of the proceeds of the credit
to the implementing regions;
(c) neither the provinces nor the implementing regions shall pass
repayment obligations of the proceeds of the credit to the
departments or institutions assisted under the project;
(d) the provinces and regions will provide all necessary funds,
facilities and resources required for the carrying out of its
part of the project in a timely manner;
(e) each of the implementing regions and provinces will maintain its
Project Office within its local Health Bureau with appropriate
functions and staffing;
(f) the regions will maintain the established Regional Health
Commission as the executive and inter-sectoral coordination
mechanism, with membership and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association;
(g) the provinces and regions will properly install, operate and
maintain any facilities and equipment procured under the
project;
(h) the provinces and regions will participate in the exchange of
views referred to in para. 5.5 above for the purpose of
reviewing each year's detailed program and budget therefor; and
(i) the provinces and regions will ensure that investments in the
health sector to be undertaken by institutions under its
jurisdiction will be made only in accordance with the Regional
Health Plan.
D.   Procurement
5.8       The main items to be procured are civil works, equipment and
vehicles, training, technical assistance, and materials and supplies and
other costs associated with the establishment and operation of new health
programs. The procurement division of the WBLO would help the regions and
provinces with the procurement process which would occur throughout the
project period, with dellveries and contracts varying by local needs and
with staggered schedules of purchase to accommodate the need to first
strengthen institutions and personnel.



- 35 -
5.9       Civil Works.  Overall plans for rehabilitation, renovation and
construction have been reviewed by a team from the Ministry of Public
Health and the hospital architectural design unit in the Ministry of
Construction (MOC). This unit would be responsible to provide or to rcview
and approve, all preliminary designs. Local design bureaus would prepare
final designs and drawings and provide construction supervision.
(a) Rehabilitation. Most buildings owned by the regional health
departments require some degree of rehabilitation to ensure their
longer useful life, to improve hygiene and to make them more
efficient and presentable. Simple repairs to roofs, gutters, water
systems and drainage as well as repainting, re-plastering, repair to
broken fixtures, windows, doors, floor and access routes would be
undertaken by local labor under arrangements acceptable to the
Association.
(b) Constructio. Some health and educational institutions also
require major renovations to correct structural, layout or physical
shortcomings which are too severe to be handled through
rehabilitation. Only limited new capacity would be created through
these reno-ations but efficiency, cleanliness, ease of maintenance,
and more modern and credible working conditions would be significant
benefits. Some units would also require new construction, either to
replace existing buildings which are too far deteriorated or outmoded
to allow renovation, or to add space for specific new or expanded
services and to permit more rational layout and use of space.
Contracts for major renovation and new construction would be awarded
through local competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures
and forms of contract acceptable to the Association.
5.10      Equipment and Vehicles.  Draft equipment lists for the 1989
budget year and tentative lists for the overall plan have been prepared by
project institutions and reviewed by MOPH and the Association. Final lists
are now being prepared by provinces and regions for consolidation into
suitable bid packages by MOPH by about mid-1989. Equipment review
committees at the region and province levels have been established to help
to ensure suitability of equipment choice, as will NOPH's annual review of
the regional plans.
5.11      ROPH would coordinate procurement and group similar items for
bulk purchase uuder international competitive bidding (ICB). HOPM would
also coordinate and encourage ICB for amounts under $300,000 to the extent
feasible in light of considerations of economy and efficiency. For
equipment, vehicle and construction contracts estimated to cost more than
$300,000 equivalent, MOPH would be responsible for preparation of draft
bidding documents, bid review and recommendations for award. A state
contracting company would be responsible for advertising, receiving bids,
undertaking contract awards on behalf of the MCPH for the provinces and
regions. OPH would coordinate delivery of equipment to project
institutions. Under ICB, local manufacturers would be eligible for a



- 36 -
margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the prevailing rate of
customs duty, whichever is lower.
5.12      Contracts estimated to cost between $25,000 and $300,000
equivalent, may be procured through LCB. Equipment and vehicles estimated
to cost less than $25,000 per contract, and in aggregate not exceeding $9
million (an average of $ 0.3 million annually for each of the three regions
and their provincial capitals) may be procured directly by each regional or
provincial health bureau through: (a) contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison and evaluation of written quotations invited from at least three
eligible suppliers; and (b) direct purchase, of proprietary items or where
justified by the need for standardization. The MOPH would review these
purchases regularly to assure that they are in accord with approved
regional plans, local purchasing regulations and the Association's
Guidelines for Procurement.
5.13      Program Support Costs.  Materials, supplies, contractual
services and operational costs incidental to new and expanded programs of
disease prevention and health service delivery would be purchased in
accordance with existing local regulations for such expenditures (normally
by simple purchase order and/or invoice and receip)'.
5.14      Training and Technical Assistance.  Domestic and foreign
consultants would be selected in accordance with IDA Guidelines and would
be coordinated and supervised by the MOPH in its annual review of the
regions' health plans. Most specialist services are expected to be
provided by public sector institutions within China and from abroad, which
specialize in the kinds of public health activities included in the
project. Where practical and cost-effective, MOPH would coordinate
arrangements for technical assistance and training activities involving
more than one project area. Technical assistance activities are included
for most project components3 and most will involve repeated visits and
contacts with the specialists throughout the project period. MOPH has
developed good experience with managing these kinds of technical assistance
activities during project preparation and in the early health projects
funded by the Association.
5.15      Procurement arrangements to be used for the above categories are
summarized in Table 5.1 below.
5.16      Bank Review.  IDA review, prior to contract award and signing,
would be required for equipment, vehicle and construction contracts of more
than $200,000 equivalent, estimated to cover about 50% of the total value
of all such contracts. Sample post reviews of other contracts and of
direct purchases would be carried out during regular supervision missions.
3  See for example, paras. 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.12, 3.13, 3.18, 3.21,
3.25, 3.26, 3.28, 3.29, 3.40, 3.41, 3.41, 3.49, 3.51.



- 37 -
E.   Disbursements
5.17      The proposed credit of SDR 39.4 million (US$52 million
equivalent) would be disbursed over a period of about six years (Table
5.2). Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expenditures for the three provinces and their regions:
(a) 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured equipment
and vehicles; 40% of the cost of locally purchased equipment and
vehicles;
(b) 45% of the cost of construction and rehabilitation;
(c) 70% of the cost of consultants' services;
(d) 70 % of the cost of training; and
(e)  50% of program support costs--materials and supplies,
contractual services and operational research costs.
For the Central Component of the project and for procurement coordinated by
the MOPH disbursement would be made against:
(a) 100 % of the foreign costs of imported equipment and vehicles;
100% of the ex-factory costs of locally-manufactured equipment
and vehicles; and 40 % of costs of locally purchased equipment
and vehicles;
(b)  100 % of consultants' services;
(c) 100 % of overseas fellowships and training costs; and
(d) 75 % of program support costs.
Reimbursement against construction and rehabilitation, fellowships and
training, program support costs, and contracts for equipment, vehicles and
technical assistance,costing less than US$200,000 equivalent, would be made
on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Documentation
supporting the SOEs would be retained by WBLO, the provinces and regions
and made available for review by IDA supervision missions.
5.18      SDecial Accounts.  In order to reduce the administrative burden
on the Government and IDA of disbursing against a large number of small
applications for equipment, civil works and for reimbursement of other
costs, the three provinces and the World Bank Loan Office (WBLO) of MOPH
would manage Special Accounts with initial deposit of US $1 million each
($2 million for the MOPH Special Account), the amount needed to cover about
four months' highest average expenditures.  The Provinces and MOPH would
periodically send statements of disbursements made from the Special
Accounts, with appropriate supporting documentation, to IDA, which would
then replenish the Accounts. Regions would establish with their own
resources separate replenishable revolving funds in local currenc.y to be



- 38 -
Table 5.1: PROCUREmENT ARRANuMENTS
(US$ millions)
Procurement method
Category of              1CB       LCB      Other      N.A.       Total
Expenditure
Equipment & Vehicles     10.0    18.0        8.9         -          35.9
(10.0)   (5.0)     (7.0)        -         (22.0)
Construction               -      27.9       6.0         -          33.9
(12.3)     (2.7:        -         (15.0)
Technical Assistance       -        -        2.9         -           2.9
-        -       (2.0)        -          (2.0)
Training                            -        5.3         -           5.3
-        -       (4.7)        -          (4.7)
Program Support Costs     -         -       16.7         -          16.7
-        -       (8.3)        -          (8.3)
Incremental Operating     -        -        -           6.1          6.1
Cost                      -        -        -            -          (0.0)
Maintenance                -       -        -           6.4          6.4
_ -      -            -          (0.0)
New Staff                  -       -        -           5.8          5.8
-       -        -            -          (0.0)
Total                   10.0    45.9      36.8        18.3        113.0
(10.0)  (17.3)   (24.7)         -         (52.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 39 -
Table 5.2: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
IDA                      Disbursement           Cumulative   Disbursement
fiscal year         Semester   Cumulative        as % of      profile (%) for
and semester           --- (US$ million) ---         total    China projects
FY 90 1st                5.0         5.0             10%            1%
FY 90 2nd                6.0        11.0             21%           16%
FY 91 1st                6.0        17.0             33%           31%
FY 91 2nd                6.0        23.0            44%            48%
FY 92 1st                7.0        30.0             58%           61%
FY 92 2nd                6.0        36.0             69%           69%
FY 93 1st               4.0         40.0             77%           76%
FY 93 2nd                3.0        43.0             83%           83%
FY 94 1st                3.0        46.0             88%           89%
FY 94 2nd                2.0        48.0             92%           94%
FY 95 1st                2.0        50.0             96%          100%
FY 95 2nd                2.0        52.0            100%
Closing date:  December 31, 1995
used to pre-finance local expenditures reimbursable by the Special
Accounts. Reimbursement to the local revolving funds would be done by the
provinces on submission and review of appropriate documentation.
5.19      Retroactive Financing.  For each province and region, 1989
budget expenditures eligible for financing under the Credit and incurred
subsequent to January 1, 1989 would be eligible for retroactive financing.
Total retroactive financing would not exceed 10% of the credit amount.
5.20      Completion and Closing.  The proposed project would be
implemented over about a six-year period, plus six months for the
completion of payments and full withdrawal of credit proceeds. The project
is thus expected to be completed by June 1995, with a closing date of
December 31, 1995. Annex 6 shows expected phasing of main project
activities.
F. Accounts and Audits
5.21      Details of the Special Accounts would be maintained by the
project offices within the provincial health bureaus and would be



- 40 -
consolidated with overall pr.ject accounts by the MOPH. Project accounts
and statements of expenditure for each fiscal year would be compiled by
each province and audited by the provincial branches of the State Audit
Administration (SAA). Consolidated project accounts would be maintained by
the WLO in MOPH and would be audited by the SAA. Accounts of individual
provinces and regions would also be audited annually by SAM. During
negotiations, assurances were received that annual audit reports prepared
by the SAA would be submitted to the Association within six months after
the end of the Government's fiscal year. A project completion report would
be submitted by the WBLO to IDA within six months of the closing date.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1       The programs and investments under the project would improve the
quality of health services available to an estimated 10-12 million people
in the three project regions and provincial capitals. Officials in the
regions and provinces would gain experience in new approaches to health
planning, budgeting and coordination. Experience at the regional level with
implementing policy reforms to strengthen health sector management will
encourage better use of scarce resources and increased responsiveness to
local needs and should provide many lessGns relevant to the replication of
approaches in other parts of China.   By establishing clearer, integrated
priorities for investment in the regions' health sectors, the project would
provide a framework for better use of both foreign and local resources.
At the national level, the project would strengthe:1 the capability of MOPH
to formulate and use policy guidelines, rather than direct budgetary
control, to influence development of the health sector at the regional
level. A wide range of health institutions and government health bureaus
would develop capacity to design and conduct chronic disease prevention
programs, increase efficiency in management and develop better coordinated
systems for delivery of health services. Ir addition, the project would
help to improve the relevance of medical education and training to priority
needs for health care in China. Most importantly, China would gain
experience with the use of health regions as an approach to the problems
facing the health sector in the future.
B. Risks
6.2       The main risk of the project is that it will take some time for
planning and finance agencies and for other sectors to understand and
adequately support health sector reforms at the local levels. However,
based on the experience of the project preparation during the last year,
there is little doubt about the MOPH's commitment to carry out an
experimental project of this kind. Local level support is strong to
redirect health investments away from an unbalanced preoccupation with
technology, imports and capital formation and, instead, toward sustained
attention to primary and secondary prevention, appropriate technologies,
improved institutional efficiency, financial discipline, and adequate



- 41 -
attention to recurrent cost control and funding. Complexity of the issues
and bureaucratic iniertia, however, may mean that the fundamental changes in
strategies envisioned may take longer than the project life to materialize
fully. Regular, joint supervision by the MOPH and by IDA will be an
important process input to achiev:ment of this trend by ensuring a
continuous domestic and external monitoring, evaluation and reformulations
in the context of the annual reviews of the regional health plans.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1       At negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a) the provinces will make available to their respective regions
part of the proceeds of the credit for carrying out the project
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (para.
4.4);
(b)  the Provincial Project Offices would be maintained throughout
project implementation with appropriate functions and staffing
(para. 5.1);
(c)  the Borrower would maintain the World Bank Loan Office witbin
MOPH throughout the project implementation period with
appropriate functions and staffing (para. 5.4);
(d) the Borrower and the Association shall annually prior to the
beginning of each of the Borrower's fiscal -aars exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Policy Guidelines,
the Regional Health Plans and the provincial components under
the project; prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
progress report, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request including the progress in carrying out the
regional health plans and the provincial components under the
project according to indicators agreed with the Association;
the Borrower shall ensure that during it's fiscal year
disbursements by each of the implementing regions and the
provinces out of the proceeds of the Credit will be made only
after the broad parameters of such fiscal year's program and
budget under each of the regional health plans and provincial
components shall have been reviewed and found to be generally
acceptable by both MOPH and the Association (para. 5.5);
(e) MOPH, the Provinces and the regions would enter into an
agreement, acceptable to the Association, on implementation
arrangements to confirm the procedures and criteria which will
be required of the Regions for implementation of the project
(para. 5.7);



- 42 -
(f) annual audit reports prepared by the SAA would be submitted to
the Association within six months after the end of the
Government's fiscal year (para. 5.21);
7.2        Conditions for Credit Effectiveness would be (a) approval by
the State Council of the Development Credit Agreement; and (b) signing of
Project Implementation it z-goments between MOPH, the provinces and the
regions with terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (para.
5.7).
7.3       Subject to the above conditions, the Integrated Regional Health
Development Project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
SDR 39.4 million (US$52.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, with
35 years maturity, to the People's Republic of China.



- 43 -
4nnex 1
Page 1 of 17
CHIN
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Background Data For Three Project Regions
1.        The main parts of the proposed project will be carried out in
three regions in three provinces: Jinhua in Zhejiang province, Baoji in
Shaanxi province and Jiujiang in Jiangxi province. This annex provides
background information on these regions.
Baoli
2.        Baoji is a new industrial city, and the second largest ix.dustrial
city in Shaanxi province. It is situated in the west of Shaanxi province
and three fourths of its total area is hilly and mountainous. Although
geographically isolated, it is on the key rail link between Eastern and
Western Chiua and serves as a link for a strategic north-south rail line to
Sichuan. Because of recent industrial growth, the urban area is congested
with narrow roads and poor city transport systems. The majority of the
terrain is not fertile for agriculture and, with the economic reform,
township enterprises have flourished. There are now about 60,000 small
scale township and village enterprises and over 300 municipal and state
enterprises. Light industry, machinery, chemical fertilizer and pesticide
production dominate the economy. As a result of this growth, increased
exposure to occupational hazards, especially in enterprises, has created
new public health problems. Tndustrial poisoning and accidents have become
major causes of disability and mortality among young adults.
Jiuiiang
3.        Jiujiang is still predominately an agricultural region.  The
province itself is an important national grain producer, with grain
accounting for half of its total agricultural production. The Jiujiang
Harbor on the Yangtze river will be reconstructed and it is anticipated
that Jiujiang will become the center of an industrial belt to be built
along the Yangtze.  Despite being a strategic transport link Jiujiang
remains a very poor region. Its average per capita income is lower tha,
the other two project regions and about half the national average. Some
counties of Jiujiang region have bernfited from agricultural reforms.
However most of the region is poor in resources with very mountainous areas
which cannot be cultivated. Local transport and communications are poor
outside the urban centers and there are few natural resources that can be
better utilized. Enterprise growth has been limited due to scarce
resources and lack of local markets.
Jinbua
4.        Jinhua region, in the middle of Zhejiang province, is a major
railway junction that links major North to South and East West railway
lines. Average per capita income is higher than in the other two regions.



- 44 -
Page 2 of 17
Municipal and township enterprises account for 60% of total production.
The major industries are food processing, textiles, construction materials
and electronic instruments. Jinhua is the second largest grain producer in
Zhejiang province. Food processing and agricultural industries have
provided substantial increase in employment in recent years. The rapid
increase of township enterprises is posing increased environmental and
worksite health risks.
5.        Table 1 presents basic information for each region and province.
Medical Services. Organization and Utilization
6.        Health infrastructure in the three regions is similar to other
partb of the country. The Regional Health Bureau oversees the city levrel
general and specialty hospitals, the epidemic prevention stations, maternal
and child health centers, the secondary medical school and the county
health bureaus under its jurisdiction. Within each county, the three-
tiered health services are provided by: (a) village health stations run by
rural doctors, (b) the township health centers, staffed by full-time
medical personnel, which offer limited in-patient care, normal deliveries
and outpatient care and (c) the county hospitals, simple epidemic
prevention stations, maternal and child health centers and the training
school. The county health bureaus are responsible for these services.
Parallel to these institutions there are health units, mainly hospitals and
clinics administered and financed under the enterprise and military
sectors.
7.        Table 2 presents data on number of beds and personnel within each
project region as compared to the province and China overall. The total
number of doctors and beds per population in the three provinces are all
below the national average. Table 3 presents data on distribution of
hospital beds by type of ownership. Jinhua has a lower bed to population
ratio compared to Baoji and Jiujiang but this excludes 461 beds owned by
the enterprises. In Jinhua, there is a concentration of hospital beds
(4.88 bed per 1,000 population) in the city proper as compared to 1.7 beds
per 1,000 population for the entire region. With higher per capita income,
Jinhua's medical services are better developed and staffed than the other
two regions, and this is reflected by the higher level of hospital
resources in the city proper.



- 45 -
Annex -1
Page 3 of 17
Table 1: BACKGROUND DATA FOR THE PROJECT PROVINCES AND REGIONS
ZheJ an8                     Jiansx.                        Shaaui                       China
Province       Jlnhua        Province        Jiujiang       Provimc.        Daoji
Population          41.2            4.1          35.6            3.8             30.4            3.1         1,085
(La
millions)
Population          405             379          213             .01             148             173         110
Density
(per km2)
Number of            89               7             83            13             107              10            -
counties
Per Capita            -             938             -            636               -             803         1100
income(Y)
Basie Health
IndLcators
(per 1000
pop)
Birth Rate          17.0           14.6          20.4           19.4              -            15.2         20.8
Death Rate           5.5            6.6           6.5            5.6              -              5.7         6.7
lafant Morta-        24.4           37.0          29.6           45.0              -              38.7        3.0
lity Rate
Maternal              3.2            3.3            4.4           6.9              -               6.8        0.2
Mortallty
Rate (urban)
Source:   Data proviced by regional and provincial health bureaus, April
1988, Statistical Yearbook of China. 1987: Item 7 in Project
la .



- 46 -
Page 4 of 17
Table 2: NUMBER OF BEDS AND MEDICAL PERSONNEL PER 1,000 POPULATION,
IN PROJECT PROVINCES AND REGIONS, 1987
the i Lan      S               Jiganaxi
Province  Jinhua  Province Baoji  Provitce  JLuji*ng   Chlnr
Total beds   86,849   7,072  110,624  8,125   89,227  12,646    2,562,502
Average per     2.1    1.7      3.6   2.6      2.5      7.2        2.4
Total doctors   45,347  302   51,216  2,286     -    4,844    1,444,150
Average
Total nurses    24,489  639    -    1.011       -    2,348    1,013,422
Average
Source:   Data provided by regional and provincial health bureaus, April
1988, Statistical Yearbook of China. 1987; Item 7 in Project
File.
8.        Preventive Services.  The epidemic prevention stations within
each region provide services targeted to control of communicable and
endemic diseases. A typical epidemic prevention station would consist of
the following divisions: Epidemiology, Immunizations, Environmental
Sanitation, Food Hygiene, Occupational Health, School Health, Laboratory
and Outpatient services (include vaccination, occupational health
screening, food handler's health inspection) and Tuberculosis Control. The
Occupational Health Division does not have a regulatory role for protection
of work site environments and safety. Inspection of mines and enterprises
is not followed up by corrective actions if air/dust/noise sampling
exceeded safety levels. The Food Hygiene Division is able to inspect and
fine food handlers who do not meet prescribed standards. Many laboratory
activities, such as water sampling for trace metals and microbiology
assays, are "process" activities and are not linked with disease control
programs. Even though there is a Tuberculosis Control Division, contact
tracing has not been given priority dut to lack of funding and lack of
recognition of its strategic importance. The EPS has been successful in
establishing and sustaining immunization activities.



- 47 -
Page 5 of 17
Table 3: NUMBER OF HOSPITAL BRd  BY OWNERSHIP, 1980-87
IN THE THREE REGIONS MND PROVINCES
1980        1981         1982        1983         1984         1985        1986         1987
Zheian.   ProviEce
Health      41,679       42,676       44,287      45,934       4,.739       49,663      52,U41       55.395
Bureau
Collective  19,449       19,287       19.691      20,051       20,563       20,206      20,564       20,632
Enterprises 8,247         9,295        9,043       8,950        8,821       10,326      10,438       10,822
linhua
Health       3,279        3,312        3,481       3,696        3,952        4,076       4,291        4,619
Bure-u
Enterprises    418          603          648         624          650          772          908         956
Collective   1,351        1,368        1,436       1,480        1,525        1.589       1,602        1.497
Jlanext    ftavings
Health      51,665       52,482       53,293      53,876       54,212      56,105       58,858       60,618
Bureau
Other       17,670       18,544       20,058      20,701       20,955      21,022       21,411       22,552
-in,stries
Collective   7,569        7,604        7.660      7,521         7,456        7,017       6,162        6.057
Health       6,977        7,147        7.169       7,412        7,494        7,614       7,905        8,059
Bureau
Collective   1,031        1,002        1,040         936          991          970         856          869
Enterprises  2,422        2,547        3,331       3,376        3,504        3.416       3,466        3,718
lhManx1     Province
Health      34,904       36,271       37,560      38,514       39,220       40,796      41,931       76,819
Bureau
Other       19,853       70,968       20,850      21,154       22,061      24,241       24.620       25,425
ministries
Collective   6,040        6,500        6,713       6.978        7,402        6,649       7,531        8,071
Private         -           -            -           -            -            104         189          299
IaiP
Health       5,474        5,609        6,335       5,835        5,454        5,591       5.539        5,505
Bureau
Other           420         390          370         340          370          410      430             470
-in"stries
Enterprises  2,145        2,204        2,224       2,154        2,119        2,425       2,311        2,150
Source:   Pata provided by regional and provincial health bureaus, April
1988; Item 7 in Project File.Preventive Services



- 48 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 17
9.        In recent years, with economic growth, the incidences of trauma
and accidents and of occupational diseases are increasing. In order to
address these problems the EPS needs to expand its role to include
prevention and control of selected chronic diseases and irjury control.
Maternal and Child Health Services
10.       The maternal and child health centers provide both curative and
preventive activities. In theory, these centers provide prenatal,
antenatal, intrapartum and postpartum care to pregnant women, well-child
care to infants and school children, routine gynecological screening for
cervical cancer, and anthropometric screening of children to assess their
nutritional status. In practice, the majority of staff and resources in
MCH provide curative care for women who seek obstetrical and gynecological
services and for children who are ill. Prenatal care is provided as
demanded by pregnant women. Neonatal tetanus is still a problem in Baoji
and Jiujiang, and iron deficiency anemia is prevalent among 60% of children
less than seven years of age in all three regions. Health education is not
integrated with the services provided nor is the EPS coordinating its
immunization activities with MCH. Thus even though neonatal tetanus is the
fourth cause of neonatal death, Jiujiang's MCH and EPS have not devised a
joint strategy for neonatal tetanus control. Over the last few years with
the financial decentralization, each institution is required to finance an
increasing share of its own expenses. Under pressures to raise revenues,
the MCH tends to provide more curative than preventive care. In many
cases. services provided by the MCH such as in-patient gynecological care,
pediatrics, and C-section deliveries duplicate the OB/GYN and Pediatrics
Departments of the hospitals. Furthermore, very little resources are
al.ocated to training midwives and upgrading their skills.
Utilization of Health Services
11.       Because there are hospitals at every administrative subdivision
and hospitals developed by other owners such as the railways and
enterprises, primary health services within the regions are fragmented and
multilayered. Table 4 presents data on LOS and occupancy rates by type of
health units within the project region and provinces.  All three regions
present similar patterns.  Occupancy rate is very high at the city level
hospitals, and very low at township and enterprise hospitals. Average
length of stay is also very high in city level hospitals, but lower in
township and enterprise hospitals. This can be explained partially by the
fact that cases seen at the higher level hospitals are more severe than the
cases seen at county or township level and enterprise hospitals. However,
high utilization is also the result of a) the one price standard for
medical services provided at all levels and b) the lower level of technical
expertise of health workers at the county, township and enterprise
hospitals. These two factors contribute to high rates of self-referral to
tertiary level units. Other factors that contribute to the long length of
stay are: (a) treatment plans ordered by physicians which Lend to be
longer than those for similar cases in the West (e.g. 28.5 days for



- 49 -
Annex -1
Page 7 of 17
pneumonia versus 7.8 days in the U.S., and 12 days for uncomplicated
appendicitis versus 8 days in OECD countries, and 25 days for
cerebrovascular diseases versus 10 days in the U.S.); (b) hospital acquired
complications such as infections and accidents; (c) lack of efficient
scheduling of patient care and optimal use of diagnostic and therapeutic
facilities; and (d) lack of pre-admission diagnosis; (e) user-induced
overuse amont the insured who pay no deductible; and (f) provider-induced
overuse to boost hospital income. The LOS of the city hospital in Jinhua
is significantly longer than that of the other two regions and appears
linked to the availability of higher level technical staff capable to carry
out more advanced surgeries such as open heart valve replacements, coronary
bypasses, and kidney transplants.
Health Status
12.       Morbidity.  Jiujiang and Baoji have higher infant mortality rates
(IMR) and maternal mortality rates (MMR) than Jinhua. In 1987, IMR was 45,
38.7 and 37 per 1,000 live births, respectively. MMIR was 6.9, 6.8 and 3.3
per 10,000 live births, respectively. This pattern is consistent with the
general socioeconomic status of the regions. In the poorer regions,
Jiujiang and Baoji, county or higher level services are not as readily
accessible for the rural poulation due to financial and transport reasons.
Techntical skills of the midwives are also low. In all three regicns, acute
infectious diseases are still a common cause of morbidity, even though
there has been a marked decline of the major vaccine- preventable
communicable diseases such as measles, pertussis, diphtheria and
poliomyelitis. Fecal-borne diseases such as dysentery and hepatitis are
still very high. Tables 5 and 6 present data on the incidence of some
persisting 'nfectious diseases.
13. There are however regional differences in the prevalence of selected
communicable and endemic diseases. The following are brief discussions of
the regional differences.
Jiuiiang
14.       In Jiujiang, tuberculosis is very high, a survey on its
prevalence was conducted in 1984 which showed a r=.te of 1.9%. This may be
associated with its lower income level and lack of a systematic
tuberculosis control program for contact tracing and treatment. Jiujiang
is also one of the more heavily infested regions in Jiangxi province with
schistosomiasis. The prevalence was 1.7% in 1987. Rice culture sustains
farmers' exposure to the infested snails in the canals and rice fields.
Baoji
15.       The Baoji region has high prevalence of Kaschin-Beck disease
(2,124 per 100,000), which results in skeletal deformity, mainly of hip and
long bones.  The etiology of this disease is unknown.   Fluorosis (540 per
100,000) is due to long term exposure to high fluoride concentration in



- 50 -
Annex I
Page 8 of 17
drinking water and results in dental fluorosis and deformity of the spinal
column. Goiter (178 per 100,000) is the result of iodine deficiency.
Jinhua
16.       Filariasis and Schistosomiasis have been eliminated.  The region
still has high prevalence of tuberculosis (585/1,000,000) as compared to
the rest of Zhejiang province. However, this -te is lower than Jiujiang.
Mortality
17.       Table 7 presents data on disease specific death rates as
percentage of all deaths for the project provinces and regions. Except for
the selected communicable and endemic diseases of particular importance to
each region, and higher maternal and infant deaths in Jiujiang and Baoji,
Table 4: UTILIZATION OF HEALTH SERVICES AT VARIOUS
LEVELS IN PROJECT REGIONS AND PROVINCES, 1987
Zhejiang            Jiangxi            Shaanxi
Province  Jinhua  Province  Jiujiang  Province  Baoji
Average Length of Stay (days)
Township Health Center      -      NA      4.3        6.4      6.5     6.0
County Hospital          11.9    12.0     10.5       11.7     12.6    11.7
District Hospital        12.2      NA        -       13.7     13.7    10.5
Enterprise Hospital      23.1    20.8     14.7       15.2     17.0    13.8
City Hospital            16.9    26.5     15.4       16.7     17.8    18.3
Provincial Hospital      24.1       -     18.4          -     22.9        -
Occupancy Rate (%)
Township Health Center    69       NA       42         40       40      45
County Hospital            98      92       86         89       89      84
District Hospital          87      NA        -         54       92      97
Enterprise Hospital        63      64       62         47       67      58
City Hospital             100     114       92         90       98      95
Provincial Hospital        96       -       95          -       93        -
Source:   Data provided by regional and provincial health bureaus, April
1988; see also Item 7 in Project File.



- 51 -
Annex I
Page 9 of 17
Table 5: INCIDENCE OF VACCINE PREVENTABLE DISEASES, 1980-1987
(rate per 100,000)
Zheiiang             Jiangxi                Shaanxi
Province    Jinhua   Province    JiuJiang   Province  Baoji
Dipjatheria
1981         1.4        0.5        4.4        1.8         1.2      0
1983         0.3        0.0         2.5       1.4         0.2      0
1985         0.1        0.0         0.3       0.6         0.08     0
1987         0.02       0.0         0.04      0.08        0.03     0
Neonatal Tetanus
1981          -          NA          NA        2.7        0.7     0.3
1983         0.1       28.1          NA        1.9        0       0.2
1985         0.1        2.2          NA        2.5        0.2     0.1
1987         0.1        1.8           NA       2.6        0.2     0.2
rPertussis
1981        54.4       77.1         62.8      112.1      29.1    14.2
1983        63.6       61.1         34.1       56.2      24.0    25.1
1985        27.6       10.2         11.7       20.8      13.6     7.6
1987        11.4        8.2         4.0         5.1      12.0     3.5
Poliomyelitis
1981         0.4        0.2          0.2         0.3      0.1     0.06
1983         0.6        0.7          0.8         0.4      0.5     0.09
1985         0.09       0.0          0.05        0.2      0.08     0
1987         0.05       0.02         0.01        0        0.07     0
Source:   Data provided by regional and provincial health bureaus, April
1988; see also Item 7 in Project File.



- 52 -
hnx I
Page 10 of 17
Table 6: PREVALENCE OF HEPATITIS B AND TUBERCULOSIS
IN PROJECT REGIONS AND PROVINCES
(rate per 100,000)
Zhejiang            Jiangxi              Shaanxi
Province /a  Jinhua  Province  Jiujiang  Province/a  Baoji
Hepatitis
1981             149.2        92.9     30.5     564.7       70.8      70.2
1983             162.6       262.9     26.4   1,611.2       66.1      50.0
1985             235.3       136.4     35.2        NA       56.9      71.0
1987             298.3       147.9     30.5        NA      104.2     123.4
Tuberculosis
1981               656       990.1       NA   1,712.4        581     197.6
(1979 survey)
1983                NA       678.3       NA   1,019.1        414     116.8
1985               410       563.8      902   1,647.9        311     182.0
1987                NA         767       NA     749.9         NA      73.7
/a Include Hepatitis A and B.
Source:   Data provided by regional and provincial health bureaus, April
1988; see also Item 7 in Project File.13.
the disease morbidity and mortality patterns in the three regions are
similar. While infectious disease and several fecal borne diseases are
still major causes of morbidity among the population, chronic diseases are
now the major causes of mortality. Demands on the health system are
changing, in part due to the epidemiologic transition and due to the
demographic changes. The three regions like the rest of China, are
confronted with a growing burden of non-communicable chronic diseases. The
mortality of the middle-aged and older population is dominated by heart
disease, stroke, cancer and chronic obstructive lung disease. Trauma and
accidents are the leading causes of death among the young and productive
age groups. Mortality data do not provide a mirror image of underlying
morbidity. Data show that infectious disease continues to be responsible
for a high volume of morbidity. Diseases such as pneumonia and
gastroenteritis, although not reflected in the mortality statistics are
still leading causes of hospital admissions and outpatient visits in all
three regions.
Health Finance
18.       The differences in health care financing among the three regions
correspond with the differences in health status. Jiujiang and Baoji are
both below the national average income levels. Jinhua's income is at about
the national average. Total health care expenditures are within about 10%
for all three regions. Publicly financed health expenditures account for



- 53 -
Page 11 of 17
5% to 7% of the regional budgets. Total per capita health expenditure is
about Y30, compared to the national average of about Y40 per capita. About
60% of the city health budget is allocated to curative services, 12% to
preventive services, 2% to maternal and child health services and 4% to
medical education. About 7% of the population is covered by government
insurance, and 22% by enterprise insurance.
19.       Jinhua has the lowest rate of insurance coverage but the highest
per capita incomes and the highest rate of health spending. Average
insurance outlays per member were Y146.5 and Y119.8 for government and
labor insurance respectively. It has few large scale enterprises ( the
main source of labor insurance coverages) but is generally benefitting from
rapid rural, agricultural growth and higher per capita income. Medicine
and hospitalization expenditures are also the highest in this region
indicating willingness to pay for medicines and for care.
Table 7: PRINCIPLE CAUSES OF DEATH IN PROJECT REGIONS
AND PROVINCES, 1985 (as percent of all deaths)
Disease              Zhejiang  Jinhua  Jiangxi  Jiujiang  Shaanxi  Baoji
Heart disease             22       11      28         30        15       12
Cerebrovascular disease  19         6      13          7        27      12
Malignant neoplasms       22        9       7         15        28        7
% respiratory          23        22      16        12          6      15
% gastrointestinal     52        37      54        74         63      60
Respiratory disorders    13         8      13          3         6       6
% chronic              84        60      53        41         NA      32
% acute                16        40      47        59         NA      68
Trauma                     6       14       7          6         7       5
% motor vehicle        32         -      18        10         NA      12
accidents
Communicable diseases      3       14      10           6       NA      NA
20.       Jiujiang is the poorest of the project regions.  Health budget
expenditures per capita are higher as are total health expenditures from
publicly financed sources. Average insurance outlays per member were
Y102.9 and Y108.6 for government and labor insurance respectively, for the
39% of population that are insured ( 2% through government insurance and
37% through labor insurance.) The remainder of the population is
uninsured.



- 54 -
Annex. X
Page 12 of 17
21.       About 42% of population in Baoji are covered by insurance (8% by
government insurance, 34% by labor insurance, and 2% by collective or
cooperative insurance). 90% of rural population versus only 16% of urban
population are uninsured. The average insurance outlays per member were 67
Yuan and 69 Yuan for government and labor insurance respectively. There is
a drastic difference between the per capita reimbursement between Jiujiang
and Baoji.
22.       The general pattern of government allocations to the health
sector is like that in other social sectors. Since 1980, the share of
budgetary financing for the sector as a whole, has decreased from about 36%
to about 17% (1987) of total recurrent expenditures on health. "he project
regions are all at about this level. As a reaction to financial reform
efforts, there is a tendency to increase cost recovery from the patient.
The theoretical advantages of such a reform in the health sector are that
there would be increased incentive to increase the efficiency of the
services and safeguard public resources for expenditures in other sectors.
The risks are that: (a) health service institutions are motivated to
concentrate on providing mainly services which earn the most revenue, thus
further escalating overall health care expenditures without any necessary
improvements in health outcomes, and (b) uninsured persons, and those not
benefitting from general economic growth, will be increasingly left out of
the health care system.



- 55 -
Annex 1
Page 13 of 17
Table 8: Basic Economic and Health Financing Indicators by Project Regions, 1986 and 1987
(     Jlujiang City ----) (----- Jinhua City ----- (    BaoJi City -----)
1986   1987  1987/86  1986   1987  1987)86 1986  1987  1987/86
Indicators                            Growth %             Growth %            Growth %
Population (000's)                      3775   3835    1.6  4092   4141    1.2  3033  3137         1.4
Regional Income/Capita(Rmb.)             563    636   13.0            938          744   803       8.0
Regional RG.D.P. Per Capita (Rmb.)       676    763   12.9   866   1026   1&5   866   924          6.7
Budget Receipts (Rmb. millions)                 265            432    494          274   326      19.1
Budget Expenditures (Rmb. millions)      300    324    8o    259    273    5.3  272   294          &4
Recurrent Health Budgt, Per Capita (Rmb.)  5.2    4.6  -10.2    4.4    4.1   -6.7    4     4       2.5
Health Expend.from Public Sources/Per Capita    7.2    6.6  -9.2    6.8    7.4    9.2
Patient Fee Pymts/Capita (Total Population)  7.6   10.3   36.6   13.0   16.7   28.7   16    18     8.8
Total Health ExpendJPer Capita           26.1   27.8    6.8   27.0   32.8   21.7   30    28       -6.4
Insurance Coverage()                     12.8   13.0    0.9    9.2    9.7    5.3   19    19        0.5
Ratios: (in %)
Health Budget: Total Budget              6.5    5.5  -15.5    8.2    7.7  -5.8   2.3   2.1    -6.4
Total Health Expend: Total Budget Expend.  32.8   32.9    0.4   42.7   49.9   16.9   1.1   1.1    -6.4
Health Expend: Reglonal 'G.D.P.          3.9    3.6  -5.4    3.1    3.2    2.7   3.5   3.0   -12.2
Personnel Costs: Total Health Expend.   15.9   15.5  -2.2           12.7                 0.0
Medicine: Health Budget                 1&9   20.9   10.4           36.4                 0.0
Medical Instit.Expend: Total Health Expend.    43.5   44.7    2.8   60.8                 0.0
Table 9: Health Department Expenditure by Category of Expenditure,Jinhua, 1987
(RMB Thousands)
Medical        Other
Jinhua City 1987                       Service  as %   Health  as %   Total  as %
Institutions  Institutions
Salary                                 7689      9    926      14   8615     10
Subsidy                                5848       7    371      6   6219      7
Welfare                                 2138      3    184      3   2323      3
Retired Benefit                         1550     2    139       2   1689      2
Student Grant                                          181      3    181      0
Other                                                  322      5    322      0
Subtotal Personnel Costs                15087     18   2123     32  17210     19
Administration                          905       1    582      9   1486      2
Equlpment                              5146      6    454       7   5599      6
Maintenance                            7458      9    939      14   8397      9
Operation                              2548      3   1615      24   4162      5
Medicine and Material                 49460     60                 49460     55
Others                                  1996      2    979     15   2975      3
Subtotal Health Services               67511      82   4568     68  72079     81
Total Health Institution Expenditures   82598    100   6691    100  89289    100
Total Health Sector Expenditures                                   135958
Health Institution ExpendfTotal Health Expend.                                66
Medical Insts. ExpendJHeaith Budget Expend.                                   93



- 56 -
Annex 1
Page 14 of 17
Table 10: Health Department Expenditure by Category of Expenditure
Baojl, 1986-1987
(RMB Thousands)
Medical            Other
Baoji City 1986                          Senvice           Health    as %    Total   as %
Institutions  as %   Institutions
Salary                                    6556        18     1155       21   7711        19
Subsidy                                   2319         7      332        6   2651         6
Welfare                                    835         2      117        2    952         2
Retired Benefit                            743         2      143        3    886         2
Student Grant                                          0      191        4    191         0
Other                                      469         1      388        7    857         2
Subtotal Personnel Costs                  10922        31     2326       43  13248        32
Administration                             765         2      557       10   1322         3
Equipment                                 1628         5     1201       22   2829         7
Maintenance                               2490         7      748       14   3238         8
Operation                                 2491         7      625       11   3116         8
Medicine and Material                     17023       48                     17023       41
Others                                     527         1                       527        1
Subtotal Health Services                  24924        70     3131       57  28055        68
Total Health Institution Expenditures      35486      100     5457      100  41303       100
Total Health Sector Expenditures                                              92556
Health Institution Expend/Total Health Expend.                                            45
Medical lnsts. Exoend./Health Budget Expend.                                              86
Medical            Other
Baoji City 1987                          Service           Heaith    as %    Total   as %
Institutions  as %   Institutions
Salary                                    7140        17     1281       26   8421        18
Subsidy                                   3165         7      413        9   3578         8
Welfare                                    995         2      125        3   1120         2
Retired Benefit                            973         2      143        3   1116         2
Student Grant                                          0      191        4    191         0
Other                                      485         1      388        8    873         2
Subtotal Personnel Costs                  12758        30     2541       52  15299        32
Administration                             831         2      554       11   1385         3
Equipment                                 2314         5      412        9   2726         6
Maintenance                               3341         8      795       16   4136         9
Operation                                 2709         6      541       11   3250         7
Medicine and Material                    20005        47                 0  20005        42
Others                                     428         1                 0    426         1
Subtotal Health Services                  29628        70     2302       48  31930        68
Total Health Institution Expenditures      42386      100     4843       100  47229      100
Total Health Sector Expenditures                                              87870
Health Institution Expend/Total Health Expend.                                            54
Medical Insts. Expend./Health Budget Expend.                                              90



- 57 -
Annex 1
Page 15 of 17
Table 11: Health Department Expenditure by Category of Expenditure
Jiujiang, 1986-1987
(RMB Thousands)
Medical           Other
Jiujiang City 1986                      Service           Health   as       Total   as %
Institutions  as %   Institutions
Salary                                   7768       16     1645       22   9413        19
Subsidy                                  2945        7      487        7   3432         7
Welfare                                   1127       3      238        3   1365         3
Retired Benefit                           987        2      210        3   1197         2
Student Grant                                               182        2    182         0
Subtotal Personnel Costs                 12827       30     2762       38  15589        31
Administration                            802        2      803       11   1605         3
Equipment                                2809        7      449        6   3258         7
Maintenance                              3424        8      1033      14   4457         9
Operation                                2822        7      1822      25   4644         9
Medicine and Material                   18624       44                     18624       37
Others                                   1486        3      179        2   1665         3
Subtotal Health Services                 29967       70     4286       59  34253        68
Cadre Training                                               76        1      76        0
Subsidy to Coop. Ins.                                       194        3    194         0
Total Health Institution Expenditures    42794      100     7318       100  50112      100
Total Health Sector Expenditures                                            98340
Health Institution Expend/Total Health Expend.                                          51
Medical lnsts. Expend.iHealth Budget Expend.                                            85
Medical           Other
Selvice           Health   as 6   Total   as %
Jiujiang City 1987                    Institutions  as %   Institutions
Salary                                   7912       17      1711      22   9623        17
Subsidy                                  3183        7      455        6   3638         7
Welfare                                   1308       3      292        4   1600         3
Retired Benefit                          1204        3      277        4   1481         3
Student Grant                                               200        3    200         0
Subtotal Personnel Costs                 13607       29     2935       38  16542        30
Administration                            911        2      819       11   1730         3
Equipment                                1472        3     1169       15   2641        5
Maintenance                              4821       10      420        5   5241         9
Operation                                3145        7      1951      25   5006         9
Medicine and Material                   22302       47                     22302       40
Others                                                                                  0
Subtotal Health Services                 34116       71     4539       59  38655        70
Cadre Training                                               57        1      57        0
Subsidy to Coop. Ins.                                       208        3    208         0
Total Health Institution Expenditures    47723       100     7739      100  55462      100
Total Health Sector Expenditures                                           106673
Health Institution Expend/Total Health Expend.                                          52
Medical Insts. ExpendJHealth Budget Expend.                                             86



Table 12: Health Expenditures, by Source of Financing, 1986-87
Coverage  Rmb.  Compo-  RmbJ Coverage  Rmb.  Compo-  RmbJ Coverage  Rmb.  Compo-  RmbJ
(000's  (O00's)  sitlon   Capita  (000's  (000's)  sitlon   Capita  (000's  (000's)  sHlton   Caita
persons)                        p oersons)                       p persons)         9
1986              (         Jiujiang City      )   (         Jinhua City      )    (           Baoji City   -)
Recurrent Health Budget           3775   19523    19.9      5.2   4092   18166    16.4       4.4   3093   13452    14.5       4.3
Investment Health Budget                                           4092    3080      2.8     0.8   3093    3140       3.4     1.0
Governmsnt Insurance                64    7814      7.9   122.1      60    6568      5.9   109.8    109    6548       7.1    60.0
Enterprise Insurance               350   41817    42.5   119.5    240   24384    22.1   101.8    42V   26536    28.7    62.7
from salary fund                                                   240    3426      3.1    14.3            6891      7.4
from Investment                                                    240    3000      2.7    12.5                      0.0
fromrStateEnt.WelfareFund         266   37944    38.6   142.6    137   12643    11.4    92.3              19645    21.2
from Collective Ent. Welfare Fund  84    4073      4.1    48.5    103    5315       4.8    51.8                      0.0
Cooperative Insurance               71      617     0.6     87       76    1085      1.0    14.3      50     808      0.9    16.3
Patient fees(self-pald,uninsured only)   3290   28569    29.1  8.7   3717   53150    48.1    14.3   2511   40973    44.3    16.3
Other                                                                      4000      3.6                    1099      1.2
Total                3775   98340   100.0    26.1   4092  110434   100.0    27.0   3093   92556   100.0    29.9
1987
Recurrent Health Budget           3835   17817    16.7      4.6   4141   17149    12.6       4.1   3137   13999    15.9       4.5
Investment Health Budget                                           4141    3926      2.9     0.9   3137    3015       3.4     1.0
Government Insurance                72    7408      6.9   102.9      66    9667      7.1   146.5    111    7457       8s    67.4
Enterprise Insurance               361   39220    36.8   108.6    254   30388    22.4   119.8    432   29938    34.1    69.3
from salary fund                                                   254    3259      2.4    12.8            7567      8.6
from Investment                                                    254    3760      2.8    14.8
from State Ent. Welfare Fund      276   35099    32.9   127.2    146   17807    13.1   122.3    408   22371    25.5
from Collective Ent. Welfare Fund  85    4121      3.9    48.5    108    5562       4.1    51.4      24                               6 
CoopMrative Insurance               64      760     0.7    11.9      80    1485      1.1    18.5      41     510      0.6    12.5      °
Patient fees(self-paid,uninsured only)   3339   39653    37.2    11.9   3741   69234    50.9    185    2554   31867    36.3    12.5     -
Other                                      1815      1.7                    4109     3.0                    1084      1.2              0% 
Total                3835  106673   100.0    27.8   4141  135958   100.0    32.8   3137   87870   100.0    28.0           0



- 59 -
Amnex 1
Page 17 of 17
Table 13: Health Revenue by Source, 1986-87
Rmb.   % of   Rmb.J             Rmb.   % of   RmbAt
(000's)  Total   Capita        (000's)  Total   Capita
Jiujiang City
Government Subsidy             19523    19.9    5.2           17817    16.7      4.6
Enterprise Subsidy             5293      5.4     1.4           6565      6.2     1.7
Outpatient Service Recelptsr  58791    59.8    15.6           60673    56.9    15.8
Inpatient Service Recelpts    14733    15.0    3.9            19803    18.6      5.2
Other Receipts                                                 1815      1.7     0.5
Total             98340   100.0   26.1           106673   100.0    27.8
Jin'iua City                 ...                                   .
Government Subsidy            18166    16.4    4.4            17149    12.6    4.1
Government Investment          3080      2.8    0.8            3926      2.9     0.9
Enterprise Subsidy             3426    131       0.8           3259     2.4      0.8
Enterprlse Investment          3000      2.7    0.7            3760     2.8      0.9
Outpatient Service Receipts'  65373    59.2    16.0           85837    63.0    20.7
Inpatient Service Receipts    13389    12.1      3.3          18118    13.3      4.4
Other Receipts                 4000      3.6    1.0            4109      3.0     1.0
Total            110434   100.0    27.0          136158   100.0    32.9
Baoji City
Government Subsidy            13482    14.5    4.3            13999    15.9    4.5
Government Investment          3140      3.4    1.0            3015      34      1.0
Enterprise Subsidy             6891      7.4    2.2            7567     8.       2.4
Enterprise Investment
Outpatient Service Recelpts   47682    51.5    15.4           42546    48.4    116
Inpatient Service Receipts'   20292    21.9    6.6            19659    22.4      6.3
Other Receipts                 1099      1.2    0.4            1084      1.2    0.3
Total             92556   100.0   29.9            87870   100.0    28.0
* Receipts of payments from both Insured and uninsured patients.
Note: Tables 4 to 13 are based on financial accounts and data provided from each project region,
and assembled for World Bank staff use by Dr. Du Lexun, Harbin School of Health Management.



- 60 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 43
CHINA
Integrated Regional Health Development Proiect
Policy Guidelines
(Issued by Ministry of Public Health, February 16, 1989)
I. Strategy for Development of Health Services
1.        Like most parts of China, the three regions participating in the
Integrated Regional Health Development Project are experiencing change in
epidemiological patterns. On the one hand, infectious diseases have become
a much less significarnt cause of mortality, although they remain important
reasons for outpatient visits and hospitalization. On the other hand, the
burden of non-communicable diseases (NCD) is increasing. Heart disease,
cancer, stroke and chronic obstructive lung disease (COLD) have become
leading causes of death among middle-aged and old people. Poisoning and
injuries are increasingly important causes of mortality among young people.
In addition to this epidemiological transition, China is experiencing
demographic changes. Increases in life expectancy achieved over the past
several decades and declining fertility through family planning have
resulted in a demographic structure in which an increasing proportion of
the population are young adults and middle-aged. The changing epidemiology
and demographic situation have given rise to new demands on the health
sector as a whole. Institutions face the major task of adopting new
approaches that are both appropriate to health problems and affordable to
local governments, enterprises and individuals.
2.        The formulation of this project has been guided by a region-
based approach to development of health services that has been successful
in other countries. Rather than using the traditional "unit-based'
planning by health units as a basis for development of health services, the
project incorporates a comprehensive approach to mobilizing resources
within a given region to provide health services that are responsive to the
particular health requirements of the region, are of high quality,
and are delivered as equitably and cost-effectively as possible.
3.        A balanced health strategy for a region should address needs
for:
(a)  orimary prevention--minimization or reduction in prevalence
of risk factors for disease through healthy lifestyle,
including diet, or interventions such as immunization,
environmental protection, health education, identification
of high risk populations;



- 61 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 43
(b)  secondary nrevention--early detection, diagnosis and
treatment Zor the prevention and/or alleviation of
diseases. Examples include self-examination and screening
at the time of primary contact on a cost-effective basis of
tuberculosis, cervical cancer, hypertension, occupational
diseases and visual and auditory difficulties.
(c)  curative and Ralliative care--treatment of symptoms,
illnesses, injuries and disabilities; emphasizes avoiding
loss of functions as a result of sickness or injury and
providing humane care to control the pain of terminally ill
and dying patients.
4.        The health services described above are to be applied at
different stages of disease, by different institutions, at varying costs
and health benefits. In the regional health plans under the project,
priority should be given to primary prevention. For some diseases,
secondary prevention (screening for diseases and risk factors) may be
effective but should be pursued cautiously on the basis of proven cost-
effectiveness. Tertiary level care will undoubtedly become more important
as China's epidemiological transition proceeds and chronic diseases become
a growing burden on the health care system, but priority in development of
health care should be given to more efficient and cost-effective primary
prevention rather than to expanding hospital care.
5.        The following areas of health services should be addressed in
the regional health plans to be prepared under the project:
(a) strengthening the capability of regional health planning
and management;
(b) disease prevention and surveillance;
(c) health education;
(d) maternal and child health care;
(e) emergency medical services;
(f) hospital services;
(g) rehabilitation;
(h) medical education and training; and
(i) medical equipment management and maintenance.
6.        Development of a health plan requires cooperation between
institutions inside and outside the formal health sector and coordination
among health institutions. A balanced health strategy will require that
the function of some units be reoriented or broadened and that policies be
redefined on the role of certain institutions (for example, the epidemic
prevention station). Under the leadership of the regional government, each
region should take measures to support cross-sectoral cooperation in health
services, reform the role and services of individual units as necessary,
and conduct research and experimentation on health policy reform.



- 62-                      ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 43
7.        Support, guidance and supervision by the central and provincial
governments of the regional efforts are indispensable to the carrying out
of the regional health plans. The provincial health bureau plays an
important role in providing policy guidance to the region, supporting
experiments in health service reform, and ensuring that budgetary
allocations to the region are sufficient to enable the project to be
carried out successfully. The central government, namely the World Bank
Loan Office (WBLO) and related technical bureaus of the MOPH, will provide
direction and support for reform initiatives to be undertaken in the
regions and provinces and will supervise implementation of the project.
MOPH will also be responsible for rsvising these policy guidelines during
the course of project implementation. Both the central and provincial
health bureauLs concerned will disseminate the lessons of experience during
the implementation of the regional plans to other regions and provinces.
II. The Project
A. Health Planning. Management and Reform
8.        Coordination.  The regions should establish mechanisms to
coordinate, plan and manage health services in order to overcome the
inefficient utilization of health resources which has resulted from
compartmentalization and lack of overall coordination in the administration
of health services. Each region is expected to form a Regional Health
Commission (RHC) chaired by a leader of the regional government and
comprising representatives of various sectors, including health,
environmental hygiene, environmental protection, civil affairs, family
planning, education, public security, industry and transportation,
agriculture, planning, finance, price control and others as appropriate.
The main functions of the commission are:
(a) to review and approve the regional health plan or the
revised plan (including that of the mobilization and
distribution of funds) as proposed by a permanent office of
the RHC;
(b) to review the proposed policies and activities with respect
to r-forms in the health sector;
;c) to oversee and decide on issues of cross-sectoral
cooperation and coordination;
(d) to review the implementation reports of the Project Office
under the regional health bureau and to formulate
directives for revising or adjusting regional plans;
(e)  to propose draft legislation on health matters 'zo the
regional People's Congress;



- 63 -                      NNEX 2
Page 4 of 43
The composition and specific responsibilities of the RHC should be
specified in written form by each respective regional government. Ideally,
the RHC should be a standing body which continues to exist even after the
five year period of implementation of this project.
9.        Under the RHC, there should be a permanent office (RHCO) within
the regional health bureau to compile and submit proposals on the initial
and subsequent revised regional health plans, policies and initiatives for
reforms in health services, and plans for implementation or cross-sectoral
coordination in specific areas of the project. The RHCO should be
responsible for the organization, implementation, and supervision of any
proposals approved by the RHC which involve the coordination of more than
one sector. The regional government should specify in writing the staffing
and terms of reference of the RHCO. Provision should be made for adequate
staffing, funding, and equipment of the RHCO. Training should be provided
to the staff of the RHCO as necessary in epidemiology, health economics,
health management, and health policy research. The RHCO should be
maintained, with stable leadership and staffing, throughout project
implementation.
10.       To coordinate the planning and implementation of a specific area
of the project, the RHC may establish ad hoc subcommittees or coordination
groups at the working level (on issues such as equipment review, hospital
management, and health education).
11.       Methodology for Planning.  The main steps in formulating the
regional health plans are:
(a) situational analysis;
(b) identifying problems and priorities;
(c) defining goals and targets;
(d) selecting strategies (project activities);
(e) developing implementation plans; and
(f) monitoring and evaluating implementation, revising plans as
necessary.
12.        Situational Analysis.  The formulation of regional health plans
needs to start from the analysis of the prevailing health situation in the
province. Through this process, the regions identify major problems in
disease prevalence, health service delivery and health financing.
Situational analysis is concerned not only with the past and present
epidemiological patterns in the region but also with the prospective
situation. The situational analysis is based on data and information
provided by the regional health information system, which has an important
role to play in the collection, analysis and provision of relevant socio-
economic, health and health resource data.
13.       Identifyin. Problems and Priorities.  Health and health-related
problems and population groups with special needs are identified through
data analysis. Major problems can be identified in utilization of health



- 64 -                     ANNE  2
Page 5 of 43
service, distribution of manpower at different levels and gaps in the
content of training and financing of health services. Priorities can then
be set based on prevalence of diseases, availability of cost-effective
measures of intervention and potential impact on reduction of disease
morbidity and mortality.
14.       Defining goals and targets.  When problems and priorities have
been well-identified, goals and targets should be established for improving
health services and thereby raising the health status of the population.
15.       Select strategies (groject activities).  Health planners need to
examine existing health services at the primary, secondary and tertiary
levels and identify cost-effective interventions to prevent and control
morbidity, mortality and disability. Many diseases can be addressed
through primary and secondary preventive measures. In some cases these can
be undertaken within communiities under supervision of health personnel,
thereby relieving some of the demand for services of medical institutions.
16.       Developing imRlementation plans.  Planz for implementation are
formulated after situational analysis, problem anI priority identification,
and selection of strategies. Planners need to specify at what
institutional level and by whom implementation will be carried out. It is
also important to plan how resource needs will be met, in terms of
personnel, facilities, equipment and financing. Iplementation plans
should also show sequencing of activities.
17.       In developing implementation plans, the following points should
be kept in mind:
(a) An integrated disease control and prevention program
requires a multi-disciplinary aRRroach. For example,
enlisting participation of provincial or local bureaus of
environmental hygiene is essential in efforts to improve
conditions in workplaces and schools and to address
problems in water supply and waste disposal. A cooperative
relationship with the civil affairs bureau is important in
health services for the mentally ill and disabled patients.
Health education programs require cooperation with
education departments.
(b) Horizontal linkages need to be established among
institutions at the same level, such as county hospitals,
maternal and child health (MCH) centers, epidemic
prevention stations and medical schools; vertical linkages
are needed among county, township and village health
institutions.
(c) Planners need to identify the comparative advantage of
particular health units and on this basis designate units
to coordinate project activities in particular areas. For



- 65 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 43
example, the county MCH center can act as a focal point in
a cervical cancer control program by providing technical
guidance and coordination in programs for screening by pap
smear, while health staff at township and village healtl
centers will actually conduct the screening. The county
EPS can support the program by analyzing eata on the
screening results and providing feedback to the county MCH
station and other institutions concerned.
(d) In conjunction with designating the roles of various
institutions in implementation, it is important to ensure
that staffing resources of health agencies are adequate
both in number and in level of skill. Often it is
necessary to design training, both pre-service and in-
service, to help medical personnel understand and carry out
their functions in the context of a changed role of the
health institution.  It may also be necessary to strengthen
education programs in medical colleges, schools and other
training institutions.
(e) Detailed budgets for health services need to be closely
linked to the objectives, strategies and activities
identified in the planning process. It is necessary to
mobilize funding for both recurrent and capital costs and
to determine the sources of financing. The RHC needs to
take steps to maintain an approximate accounting of total
health financing, including overall revenues and
expenditures.
18.       Monitorina- and evaluation.  Monitoring activ.ties should be
conducted during implementation to assess the progress and impact of
ongoing activities and the utilization of resources. Specific indicators
for monitoring and evaluation need to be developed in each region.
Feedback on experience should be provided to implementing agencies to help
raise and resolve issues. The RHC should evaluate implementation to assess
how the project is affecting people's he- ' status and to determine
whether the original strategy and impleme  ;tion plans need to be adjusted.
Progress reports need to be submitted reguLarly by the region to MOPH. The
annual evaluation should be used in each region to help guide year-to-year
allocations of human resources, facilities and equipment and financial
inputs. Readjustments tti the five-year plans should be subject to approval
of the RHC.
19.       Information Systems.  Formulation of the regional health program
and monitoring of implementation depend on the support of an information
system. The health bureau in each project region and in project counties
need to establish coordinated mechanisms for the collection, analysis and
dissemination of health data.   The system should function under
coordination of the RHCO,, and information should be distributed regularly
to health institutions throughout the region.



- 66 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 43
20.       The information system should comprise a network of regional and
county information centers staffed with full- or part-time statisticians,
depending on the volume of work. It may be practical to attach the
regional information center to the regional EPS. County information
centers should be developed first in areas where surveillanea points
already exist and then gradually developed in other areas.
21.       Information centers need to assume the following
responsibilities:
(a) collection, storage and transmission of data (upward,
downward and horizontally);
(b) analysis and reporting of data;
(c) supporting the formulation of regional plans;
(d) designing epidemiological surveys and contributing to data
processing and reporting;
(e) establishing a regional health data bank;
(f) analyzing and assessing the regional health situation,
assessing the outcome of interventions, identifying
epidemiological trends, and preparing reports on priorities
and approaches to disease prevention and control.
22.       Data collection and analysis are expensive in terms of labor
intensity and time required to complete tasks. There needs to be careful
review of activities to be undertaken in this area to ensure that the data
coilected and analyzed are those most relevant to the needs of institutions
and to the process of planning and evaluating regional health services.
23.       In terms of staffing the information centers, it is important
tbat both regional and counry information centers hire people with skills
and knowledge in computer science, health statistics and epidemiology. All
staff should have training in the operation of computers and shoul.d have a
basic understanding of health statistics. The functions of the various
specialists are:
(a)  health statistician--participating in the design of
epidemiological surveys, defining the method of data
analysis, analyzing data with computers, interpreting
findings and preparing analytic reports;
(b)  computer sRecialist--maintaining computer facilities;
selecting, preparing or adapting software for recording,
storing and transmitting data;



- 67-                      AN         2
Page 8 of 43
(c) epidemiologists--participating in the design of
epidemiological surveys and data analysis and preparing
analytical reports.
24.       The principles that should guide development and operation of
the regional information systems are:
(a) The collection, analysis and dissemination of information
should be implemented as an essential component to the
activities of the health sector;
(b) In general, only data with clear relevance to institutions
and planning/evaluating processes should be co'lected and
analyzed.
(c)  Due attention should be paid to accuracy, accountability,
and timeliness in data collection.
(d) Feedback on the findings of analyses should be given to
those who provide data.
25.       Studies and experiments for health sector reform.  The
implementation of the regional health plans needs to be supported by a
series of policy reforms and special initiatives, especially in the area of
mobilizing financing for health services.  The issues of what changes are
needed in insurance programs and in the pricing and payment for health
services should be considered priorities for research and experimentation
in the regions.  Studies should be carried out by the regional health
bureau in cooperation with local medical colleges. Experimentation should
be undertaken on a limited scale at first and replicated if successful.
26.       Primary health care fund.  Funds should be allocated in each
region for development of primary health services. In many counties, both
rural and urban, primary health services have become unavailable or are
constrained for a number of reasons. Physical and human resource
infrastructure for delivery of basic services has deteriorated, especially
in rural villages. There are also economic disincentives for rural doctors
to provide basic services. Many township hospitals have found it difficult
to develop primary health services due to insufficient budgetary
allocations. Because the neglect of primary level services is widespread
in the health system, each region will need to take special steps to ensure
there are sufficient resources allocated for this purpose. Funds should be
mobilized from the region, county and township ia a fixed proportion of
their overall budgetary allocations for health services. If funds are to
be used at the village level, a contribution would need to be made by the
village residents committee.
27.       These earmarked funds should be used:
(a) to operate and maintain the primary health care facilities;



- 68 -                     ANNEXL
Page 9 of 43
(b) to supply newly constructed or rehabilitated facilities
with basic equipment;
(c) to encourage provision of primary health care services in
townships and villages;
(d) to fund, in part, the management expenses for piloting
insurance schemes;
(e)  to provide treatment for patients with tuberculosis who are
unable to pay for services.
Within the first year of project implementation, the RHC should stipulate
procedures for the mobilization and use of primary health care funds.
B. Disease Surveillance and Prevention
28.       The epidemic prevention station (EPS) is the institution
primarily responsible for the surveillance and prevention of major disease
in the regions, although disease surveillance should be perceived as the
responsibility of health institutions overall. With the changing disease
patterns in China, the regions are faced with growing problems of chronic
NCD, poisoning and accidental injuries. To respond to changing health
problems, the EPS need to adapt their organizational structures and
functions. Disease surveillance activities need to be targeted toward
objectives for disease control. The effectiveness of current activities
needs to be assessed and programs should be reorganized accordingly. In
many cases, additional staff and training in epidemiology is required.
Each region should ensure that funds are available to initiate new programs
and cover operating expenses of the EPS during and after project
implementation.
29.       Surveillance and prevention of disease, particularly NCD,
requires collaboration between the health and non-health sectors and
cooperation among institutions providing services in health education, MCH,
hospital services and public security. Each region should develop a
mechanism for cross-sectoral and interinstitutional coordination.
30.       Disease Surveillance Units.  The EPS at the regional and county
levels should establish units for disease surveillance. The units should
be responsible for improving surveillance of communicable diseases and
gradually expanding their work to include NCD and injury surveillance.
The functions of the unit should be geared toward changing behaviors of the
population which are leading to high risk factors for disease and injury,
studying the impact of health interventions and, where appropriate,
developing legislation for local laws on safety to prevent injury.
31.       The terms of reference for the disease surveillance units are:



- 69 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 43
at the regional level,
(a)  to formulate a regional program for disease surveillance
and to direct and supervise its implementation;
(b)  to improve the supervision of work carried out at major
Disease Surveillance Points and establish new DSPs;
(c)  to report to higher authorities on disease surveillance
work in the region;
at the county level,
(a)  to carry out disease surveillance activities under regional
supervision;
(b)  to report regularly to higher authorities on disease
surveillance activities.
Hospitals, MCH centers and EPS should submit disease reports to the EPS
units which would be responsible for organizing quality control of the
data, analyses and feedback to health institutions on epidemiological
trenxds.
32.       Basic health reporting systems.  Each region should have 2 to 4
Disease Surveillance Points, whicb each cover a population of about 100,000
and have demographic characteristics broadly representative of the region.
Wherever possible, establishment of new surveillance points should be
integrated with the national disease surveillance system under the Chinese
Academy of Preventive Medicine. The surveillance points should establish a
common system for collecting, registering and reporting basic health
information. At the minimum, data should be sought on births, deaths,
incidence of disease and injury and prevalence of risk factors.
33.       Baseline survey.  Periodically, a comprehensive epidemiological
survey should be carried out in the region to obtain baseline data on
health status and disease patterns of the local population.
34.       Public health laboratory centers should be established at the
regional and county levels. Equipment for disease surveillance needs to be
updated in these facilities. Guidelines for purchase of new equipment
should include:
(a)  Equipment in these laboratories should correspond to that
found in clinical laboratory centers.  Purchases that would
duplicate existing equipment, especially major equipment,
should be avoided.
(b)  Purchasing locally manufactured equipment, if available, is
generally preferable to importing equipment. Instruments



- 70 -                     AM    2
Page 11 of 43
of higher quality should generally be located at the
regional center.
(c) The purchase of vehicles must be well-justified by the work
programs of the laboratories.
(d) Sufficient space and maintenance must be ensured for all
laboratory equipment.
35.       training.  Priority training in disease surveillance and
prevention should be on in-service programs for existing EPS staff; pre-
service training is of secondary importance. Emphasis should be on
improving general knowledge of public health as well as understanding of
specialized areas such as epidemiology, the use of medical technology, and
management. In-service training should be designed and carried out in close
collaboration with medical colleges and schools.
C. Health Education
36.       Health education is the provision of education and training to
the community through mass media and other means of communication to
promote health and minimize the prevalence of risk factors linked to the
onset of disease or injury. Health education should help people to improve
their understanding of why and how to maintain a healthy lifestyle and to
enhance their capability for self-care. Health education is the task of
society as a whole and should be a common effort of departments of health,
education, culture, science and technology, public security, industry,
commerce, labor and others.  All health institutions are obligated to
undertake health education activities as an integral part of their
services. It is important for all health workers to understand and reflect
in their work with patients the importance of health education.
37.    Allocation of funds for health education should be ensured in
regional planning. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that 3-
5% of total budgetary expenditures for health services in developing
countries be earmarked for health education.
38.       Health education should be aimed at:
(a) prevention of acute and chronic infectious disease;
(b) prevention of non-communicable diseases, particularly
through programs to reduce the important risk f,ctcr of
smoking;
(c) promotion of safety; and
(d)  prevention of gynecological and children's diseases;



- 71 -                     ANNE  2
Page 12 of 43
39.       Raising awareness.  Seminars should be organized for government
leaders in each region to expand understanding of the importance of health
education and to enlist support of all relevant agencies. Programs need to
be undertaken at institutions of medical education and training to help
health workers better understand the role of health education in their work
and how to put into practice the principles of "putting prevention first"
and raising people's capability to care for themselves.
40.       Organization and management.  Each region should establish under
the RHC a health education coordination group, which would be responsible
for integrating initiatives of institutions within and beyond the formal
health sector and for mobilizing and promoting community involvement in
health education.
41.       Health education institutions need to be strengthened at both
the provincial and regional level; in come cases new institutions need to
be established.  The role of these organizations is:
(a)  to formulate objectives for health education in the
province or region on the major infectious diseases, NCD
injury and related risk factors; to develop implementation
plans that outline the role of health and non-health sector
institutions;
(b) to dssign, prepare and disseminate written and audio-visual
materials for health education in hospitals, MCH centers,
EPS, tuberculosis prevention programs, psychological
counseling, rehabilitation, schools and through the mass
media (television, radio, newspapers, magazines and
billboards);
(c) to provide professional guidance to lower-level health
institutions;
(d)  to provide training on health education to government
officials, health workers and social workers;
(e) to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of health
education activities.
The functions of health education institutions at the county level need to
perform similar functions, with the exception of producing health education
materials. Other health institutions, especially hospitals and MCH
centers, should designate specific departments or individuals to liaise
with health education institutions.
42.       The ultimate goal of the region should be a well-integrated
network of institutions and activities to provide health education to
specific target groups. The chart below identifies some of the principal
target groups and channels for providing health education.



- 72 -                     ANNES 2
Page 13 of 43
Main activities/             Health education
Target &roup                 channels                     Providers
Children and                 H.E. classes in              Kindergarten and
youngsters                   regular curriculum,          school teachers at
social group                primary and secondary
activities                   schools, health
workers
Pregnant women and           health training class,       MCH staff, Central
women at high risk in        small group discussion       Patriotic Health
pregnancies                                               Campaign Committee
(GPHCC), enterprise
workers, H.E.
specialists
Rural population             night schools/classes,       primary health care
small group                 workers, trained H.E.
discussion, and social       specialists
group activities
Workers                      lectures, small group        health workers in the
discussion,                 work place, trained
consultation                 H.E. specialists
Patients and their           counselling, social          all health care
families                     group activities,            workers
hospital clinics and
small group discussion
Elderly people               lectures, small group        all health care
discussion and              workers, especially
coaching on physical         rehabilitation
exercise
43.       Human resource development.  There needs to be substantial
development of staff to conduct health education. Professionals need to be
recruited and trained to staff health education centers and special units
within hospitals or clinics. Health workers at all levels require more
knowledge of social and behavicral psychology. Medical schools meed to
strengthen their capability for teaching on health education. Editors,
graphic and visual artists and audio-visual specialists also need to be
recruited and trained for health education. Because the concepts and
techniques of health education are not widely used in the regions at
present, the role of technical assistance, both domestic and foreign, is
particularly important in the development of institutions, staffing and
training programs.



- 73.                      ANNE 2
Page 14 of 43
44.       Educational materials.  With guidance of provincial level
institutions for health education, the regic-al health education centers
should produce materials for use by providers of health education
throughout the region. Materials should include printed materials with
varied illustrations and in language reflecting the culture and age of the
target group; materials for the health educator, including reference books,
exerciises, visual aids. Slides, films and videotapes should also be
developed for use in teaching and lecturing, and for broadcasting on the
mass media. The regional health education institutions are responsible for
maintaining close cooperation with departments of culture, education, radio
and television broadcasting and developing social education on a large
scale by fully utilizing all possible channels of dissemination.
45.       Anti-smoking efforts rould be a key activity in health
education and should include:
(a) bans on smoking in public places such as government
offices, school classrooms, theaters, train stations and
airports; there should be no smoking in government
meetings, especially those open to public attendance or
broadcast on television;
(b) enforcement of anti-smoking regulations in health
institutions; medical workers should be urged to model
desired behavior by not smoking; units of non-smoking staff
should be recognized and rewarded;
(c) strong anti-smoking education in schools; teachers should
be encouraged not to smoke;
(d) enterprises should adopt no-smoking policies and encourage
employees not to smoke;
(e)  cove:age of smoking in health education materials
(f) establishment of "smoking or health" associations at the
provincial or regional, with visible participation by local
leaders;
46.       In addition to the activities above, some countries have adopted
fiscal or administrative measures to discourage smoking. The following
might be considered by the provincial and regional health bureaus:
(a) strengthening local licensing for sale of cigarettes;
(b) taxing the sale of cigarettes and earmarking the revenue
generated for disease control programs;
(b) requiring a warning label on cigarette packaging;



- 74 -                       fiMEX 2
Page 15 of 43
(d) banning cigarette advertising on radio, television,
newspapers and at sports and cultural events; prohibiting
advertising through articles of clothing, tissues, dishes
or other consumer products.
47.       Monitoring and evaluation.  Data should be collected regularly
by local health education centers to monitor the progress and effectiveness
of health education programs. Monitoring of NCD sk-uld include surveys to
determine actual change in behaviors, such as smoking or dietary habits,
among target population groups. Surveys should also be designed to assess
change in knowledge, attitudes and behavior before and after exposure to
health education. The findings of the evaluative process itself can serve
as convincing information for health education materials. In the context
of targets for the outcome of health education, data should be collected on
the extent of the dissemination of health messages and on the health
education curriculum in local schools. Data collected by hospitals, MCH
centers and the EPS should be incorporated ii.to evaluation of health
education. An annual report on progress in health education should be
prepared for review by the regional health education committee.
D. Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Care
48.       The guiding principles for strengthening regional MCH services
should be better coordination of institutions concerned with MCH care and
improved clarity of the roles of primary, secondary and tertiary level care
in MCH services. Care for normal pregnancies and deliveries, and routine
infant and young child care should be provided through primary level
services. Only pregnant women or children at high risk are to be referred
to hospitals and MCH institutions at the county level or above. In the
strengthening of regional MCH networks, emphasis should be placed on MCH
services at county level or below. MCH institutions at the county,
township and village level primarily need to improve overall management of
existing facilities and staff and better define systems for patient
referral; only in select cases is there a need to increase bed capacity.
Clinical departments for MCH in general hospitals or health centers should
be strengthened. In particular, county hospitals need increased capability
to diagnose and treat high risk cases.
49.       Institutional Coordination.  An MCH coordinating group should be
established under the RHC and include senior staff from the local
government. MCH centers, immunization units of EPS, hospitals, health
education institutions, and the CPHCC. The responsibilities of the group
are to:
(i)  assure policy coordination among member organizations;
(b) review specific policies recommended by the varioun MCH care
providers;



-75 -                      AMNEX2
Page 16 of 43
(c) decide on policies that affect more than one level or type of
health institution; and
(d) provide a forum for annual reporting on MCH activities and
programs.
The RHC should approve and issue policies to structure incentives for
referring high risk pregnant women to higher level institutions and for
referring cases not likely to require sophisticated treatment to lower
level institutions. Such policies should include reform of pricing and
insurance systems for MCH services.
50.       Sgecialized MCH Institutions.  The "14CH system' consists of
specialized MCH centers at the regional and county level, MCH staff in the
township and villag;l  ealth centers, and village doctors and midwives at
the grass roots leveL1. The main responsibilities of the regional KCH
centers are to train MCH workers at the county level, collect and analyze
information on pregnant women, evaluate outcomes of tmplementation (e.g.
proportion and frequency of women receiving antenatal care), determine
protocols for MCH care, assess causes of maternal mortality and other
adverse consequences and adjust services as appropriate, and to coordinate
MCH care efforts of hospitals and health education institutions.
51.       The principal functions of county MCH institutions are to:
promote perinatal care, MCH and maternal health; collect and analyze
information on the quality of services in the MCH network within the
county; to train MCH workers and midwives attendants in townships and
villages, and to evaluate and analyze problems in quality of care and
adjust service delivery accordingly.
52.    The township health center is responsible for the systematic
management of normal pregnancies and deliveries and identifying and
referring high risk pregnancies for higher level care. The township MCH
staff need to monitor care provided by midwives and help upgrade their
knowledge and practices. It is important to ensure that sterilizing
procedures are being followed; basic monitoring is being done for anaemia,
blood pressure, sugar and protein in urine; and immunizations are being
provided as appropriate before deliveries. In addition, township center
staff need to provide data required by county and regional MCH centers.
53.       An important need in the MCH system is to upgrade the capability
of midwives to assess risk factors in pregnancies. High risk pregnant
women should be referred promptly and safely to hospitals. The proportion
of high risk cases treated in hospitals should increase, as tertiary level
institutions are best equipped to address these problems. The role rf
midwives in health education should be recognized and enhanced.
54.       Hospital System.  The region should designate a regional
hospital as the GCH referral hospital for the region. This hospital would
receive high risk patients referred by county hoapitals and would avoid



- 76 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 17 of 43
handling a large number of normal deliveries so as to ensure adequate staff
attention and beds for high risk cases. Other hospitals in the region
which provide obstetric services should not duplicate the equipment and
technologies already available in the referral hospital.
55.       County level hospitals should be upgraded to provide better
treatment for eclampsia, perform C-sections, treat infections and transfuse
if blood is available. They should be able to keep infants warm in an
incubator, treat elevated bilirubin, administer oxygen to the incubator and
resuscitate asphyxiated newborns. Medical units below county level should
have capability to manage normal deliveries, refer patients at high risk
and o-ovide information to patients about pregnancy and childbirth.
56.       Targeting services. MCH services in the regions need to be
better focused on the major needs of women and children living in the area.
These should be determined through systematic surveillance of diseases and
health problems affecting women and infants and preventable factors in
maternal and infant death. Priority problems should be reflected in the
overall regional plans and budgets.
57.       MCH staff devei.oDment.  Improvement in formal education of MCH
staff is needed but should not overshadow the priority need for in-service
training of existing MCH workers. Standard job descriptions for midwives
and other MCH workers should be developed as a basis for specific training
programs and medical school curricula. There should be coordination to
ensure that the training of staff at various level; is consistent in the
basic principles of care and referral of women and infant patients. In
general, priorities for MCH staff training at different levels should be as
follows:
(a)  townshiR or village staff--upgrade skills in risk
assessment and screening patients for referral and
transfer;
(b)  county staff--upgrade skills for diagnosing high risk
factors and handling eclampsia, obstetric bleeding, C-
section, blood transfusion, care of premature infants, and
resuscitation of suffocating infant;
(c)  regional staff--similar to county staff, although these
workers might need to be familiar with more sophisticated
technology available at the regional MCH center.
58.       .    t.ea3th education.  Health education on pregnancy,
childbirth, Idr irfant care should be integrated with routine MCH services.
In additior', spe-ial efforts might need to be undertaken by MCH workers in
cooperation wita institutions of health education.



- 77 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 18 of 43
E. Emergency Services
59.       Emergency medical services should comprise systems for pre-
hospital and hospital services. The priority need in the regions is to
develop pre-hospital services which include a central command and
coordination system, field rescue and ambulance services. A pre-hospital
system should be able to meet the following requirements:
(a)  help can be contacted for emergency victims from nearby the
site of injury or sudden illness;
(b) when help arrives, basic life support can be made available
quickly, and the patient can be stabilized at the site
prior to transport;
(c) the patient can be safely transported and referred to a
hospital for further emergency treatment.
60.       The concept of pre-hospital emergency services does not imply
simply transporting emergency victims to hospitals without meeiical care;
nor does it imply moving facilities similar to those of a hospital to the
site of the emergency. Equipment for pre-hospital medical care should
consist mainly of medical instruments and simple telecommunications that
enable the patient to survive and be transported. Sophisticated rescue
equipment and instruments for diagnosis, treatment and morito:ing are of
secondary importance in pre-hospital care.
61.       Rescue workers should be professionals who are specially trained
to help patients survive and to refer them for treatment in an emergency.
In general, specialized doctors should not be involved in pre-hospital
rescue. The structure of wages and career pathing for emergency workers
needs to be improved. Standards need to be developed on qualifications
requirements and promotion criteria. Wages and rewards should be reviewed
against those for other medical workers and increased if necessary.
62.       There needs to be inter-sectoral cooperation in pre-hospital
rescue. For example, the public security bureau and fire control
departments need to work in collaboration. It is also important that
workers in these agencies as well as the general public are aware of the
importance of first aid and know basic techniques of resuscitation.
63.       Emervency ce -terl.  Cities in the project regien and the
provincial capital cities should each establish an emergency medical
center. Depending on the size and population density of the catchment area
in the provincial capital, there may need to ba a network of "sub-centers'
in hospitals under the umbrella of a provincial center.
The project regions should establish a command center for emergency
services.
64.       The functions of the command centers are:



- 78 -                     ANNEX_2
Page 19 of 43
(a) to render effective pro-hospital services at the emergency
site to stabilize the patient for transfer to the hospital;
(b) to dispatch the ambulance as quickly as possible to the
emergency site;
(c) for efficient referral of patient, to have a clear
understanding at all times of each hospital's capacity in
terms of beds, staffing and operating facilities;
(d) in the event of major catastrophe, to assist health
authorities and other relevant departments (public
security, fire protection, and labor) in coordinating and
giving unified command in all rescue activities.
65.       Communication system.  The number "120" has been designated as
the telephone code for obtaining emergency services. Wireless
communication networks should be established in each region and provincial
capital. The wireless transmission of the emergency center should extend
to all parts of the municipality. These communications networks should be
accessible to the departments of public security and transportation as well
as to emergency centers and hospitals.
66.       TransRortation.  The emergency center and sub-centers should be
equipped with an adequate number of ambulances. A survey of the population
in the catchment area may be necessary to determine the appropriate number.
In order to keep response times to a minimum, all ambulances should not be
kept at the central emergency center but should be decentralized to sub-
centers where they can be dispatched and arrive at any emergency  site in
the area within 15 minutes.  Each ambularkce should be equipped with basic
first-aid equipment and simple monitoring devices.
67.       Emergency care in hosDitals. The emergency department in any
hospital should be able to treat a patient who is in shock or requires X-
rays or blood or biochemical tests. Emergency room equipment should
include surgical trolleys, resuscitation and diagnostic equipment
appropriate for emergencies. The emergency department is expected to
establish and to observe strictly protocols for emergency services. At the
minimum, the emergency department should have:
(a) an area spacious enough to permit quick and easy movement
of patients, staff and equipment;
(b)  a table designed for CPR;
(c)  adequate overhead lighting and portable lamps;
(d) a large sink with hot and cold rimning water and elbow
taps;
(e) tiled or well-finished cement floor;
(f) an alarm system for summoning staff;
(g) a wide double-door entrance without obstruction;



- 79 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 20 of 43
(h) adequate and easily accessible supplies of essential
equipment, drugs, transfusioti and injection devices,
disposable supplies and sterile packs;
(i)  a location near to the ambulance entrance and close to the
x-ray department, laboratories and telephones;
(j)  adequate and hygienic storage space, preferably built-in,
glass-fronted cabinets lined with impervious materials.
68.       Training.  As a basis for training programs, each project region
and province, in cooperation with the MOPH and National Association of
Emergency Medicine (NAEM), should standardize job descriptions for pre-
hospital emergency workers of various categories, including ambulance
drivers. The key professional in pre-hospital emergency services is the
paramedic, who should undertake three-years of training. Instruction
should include basic medicine in the first year, and emergency medicine in
the second and third years. Medical colleges and secondary health schools
in the regions and provincial capital should establish courses for training
paramedics. Candidates for this curriculum should be identified from the
students in secondary health schools. Teaching materials need to be
developed by the NAEM and reviewed by the State Education Commission.
69.       The emergency centers in cooperation with local hospitals can
provide training to their respective staff. In training of doctors and
nurses to staff hospital emergency departments, emphasis should be on
improving technical skills in diagnosis, treatment and care. Training
should also be provided to medical staff in related departments so that
they understand how to handle rffectively emergency patients referred to
th.eir care.
70.       Management reform.  Regions and provinces need to investigate
problems in the management of emergency services, especially pre-hospital
rescue. Management and system reforms should be recommended and
implemented together with the civil works, equipment purchase and staff
training that are needed to improve emergency services.
71.       Public education.  Some basic first aid techniques, such as
cardiopulmonary resuscitation, hemostasis, bandaging, immobilization, and
transportation should be disseminated to the public t~irough television,
radio, newspapers and other forms of mass media.  Workers in
transportation, fire control and electric power departments and middle
school students should be considered priority targets for first aid
instruction. The development and dissemination of materials should be
carried out systematically in the region or provincial capital tt ensure
targeting of appropriate audiences and to avoid duplication of effort.
72.       Coordination of resources.  A inventory should be taken by the
RHC and the emergency services coordinating group to identify all resources
for emergency services within the region.  This would involve cataloguing
ambulances, equipment and staff resources and would help to ensure, on the



- 80 -                     ANNEX-2
Page 21 of 43
one hand, that available resources are being used efficiently and, on the
ether hand, that requirements for new resources are clearly defined.
F. HosRital Services
73.       Each region should make full use of their hospitals and clinics,
at different levels (primary, secondary and tertiary), in various
administrative systems (health sector, non-health sectors, and .be
military) and under vr.rious forms of ownership (state, collective and
private).  Unde- tL  regional plan, institutions should work toward better
horizontal and vertical cooperation in the design, delivery and evaluation
of services. A peer management approach should be adopted in the regions,
whereby hospitals and health professionals are subject to agreed standards
of quality in health services.
74.       The planning of investments and expenditures for hospital
services should incorporate the following priorities:
(a) maintenance, repair and renovation of existing facilities,
rather thar, increase in bed capacity or limitless expansion
or construction of new facilities;
(b) Strengthening of general rather than specialized hospitals
and health units, particularly at the primary and secondary
levels;
(c) purchase of domestically manufactured rather than imported
equipment;
(d) need to focus resources on critical but currently weak
areas of heolth service (e.g. pre-hospital rescue, health
education or rehabilitation at the community level) rather
than trying to spread funds evenly through the system nd
across institutions;
(e) strengthening "software" of hospital services ( management,
staff training and surveillance systems) rather than
"hardware" (buildings and sophisticated equipment).
75.       Hospitals should consider the implications of irvestment in new
facilities, equipment, programs and staffing on future recurrent costs of
operation and maintenance. The affordability of health services to the
state, collective and individuals, both insured and uninsured, should be
carefully considered. There should be emphasis on correcting
inefficiencies in tlhn health system to improving the quality and
effectiveness of care. Efforts should be made to overcome the short-
sightedness of equating health services with means of generating revenue
for cost recovery or even financial gain. Plans for development of
hospital services in each region should be coordinated with initiatives to



- 81 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 22 of 43
be taken in disease surveillance, health education, MCH care, emergencj
services and rehabilitation.
76.       Horizontal linkages.  A hospital coordination group should be
established under the RHC in each region. The group should comprise
directors of hospitals and clinics within and outside the formal health
sector. The group should seek to coordinate the activities of all
hospitals, strengthen hospital management, improve hospital services and
periodically evaluate the work of hospital directors.
77.       Rationalizing functions and resource allocations.  The following
principles should be used in adjusting the services to be provided by each
institution and allocating funding and human resources:
(a) Hospitals should be classified according to the level of
service they provide rather than by their administrative
affiliation. A system of financial incentives and
penalties should be developed with a view toward improving
efficiency and quality of care.
(b) Emphasis should be given to development of general
hospitals, particularly at the primary and secondary
levels. Planners should consider closing inefficient,
specialized institutions while strengthening specialized
departments within general hospitals.
(c) Laboratory and diagnostic imaging facilities should be
established at a central location; inefficient duplication
of capability in these areas should be avoided.
78.       Rehabilitation of facilities.  The regional plans should
emphasize maintenance, repair and renovation of existing buildings.
Rehabilitation should take into account spatial layout, lighting,
cleanliness, patient flow, management of contaminated materials, and need
to facilitate the medical worker's observation of patients. A proportion
of hospital income shotdl be earmarked for regular maintenance and repair
of hospital facilities.
79.       Expansion and new construction.  The following principles and
procedures should be adopted in planning for capital construction:
(a) Limitless increase of hospital bed capacity and
construction of new hospitals in the region should be
avoided. Expansion of rehabilitation services and
increases in the use of home beds can serve as an
alternative to increasing hospital capacity. Any expansion
or new construction should be rationally planned in the
context of overall development of regional health services.



- 82 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 23 of 43
(b)  Proposals for expansion or new construction should be
accompanied by a feasibility report explaining in detail
the proposed role of the new facilities in relation to
other hospitals in the region. The report should specify
case loads, specialization of the hospital, staff
proficiency, equipment requirements, and plans for
coordination with other regional hospitals to minimize
duplication of services and to ensure the needs of the
catchment area are being met efficiently. The report
should also include financial analysis showing projected
operating costs, government subsidies and sources of
operating revenue for an initial five-year period. The
feasibility reports are subject to approval of MOPH.
(c)  The architectural design of hospitals should be in
accordance with the concept of a modern, modular hospital.
Design should incorporate spatial patterns for good staff
and patient flow and management and should utilize building
materials which are easy to clean. Patient flow should be
rationally designed; conventional, small closed wards in
poor proximity to nursing stations should be avoided. All
draft and final designs for expansion and new construction
should be reviewed and approved by an expert committee in
MOPH.
(d)  Overall size of the expanded or new hospitals should be
limited to 600 beds; larger facilities are difficult to
manage.
(e)  Detailed plans should be prepared on how to incorporate
modern methods of hospital management and cost accounting
into the operation of the new facilities.
80.       Expanding and strengthening services.  Hospitals should
establish or expand community health services and in cooperation with EPS
and MCH centers work toward the control and prevention of diseases in the
community. Priorities for expanding services should be prevention of NCD,
disease surveillance and rehabilitation. General hospitals should develop
services in psychological counselling, experiment with new protocols for
reducing the average hospital stay of mental patients, and develop
community based health services. Psychological counselling should also be
provided to patients with physical disabilities.
81.       Improving efficipncy and guality of services.  Steps should be
taken to reduce patients' average length of stay in hospitals. These
should include:
(a) establishing outpatient services for rehabilitation;
(b) arranging for home beds;



- 83 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 24 of 43
(c) establishing systems and rules for patient referral;
(d) setting up procedures for pre-admission diagnosis;
(e) strengthening and practicing protocols for diagnosis and
treatment; attempting to shorten time required for tests
and treatment or post-operative hospitalization.
82.       A systematic program of quality control should be developed.  A
regular monitoring system should be established to improve supervision of
staff and departmental performance. Prescription practices, average length
of stay, utilization of diagnostics, rate of nosocomial infection, and case
fatalities should be carefully monitored. Separate reports should be
prepared on care provided to insured and uninsured patients. New systems
of patient registratior and reporting, costing of services and information
management should be developed. A detailed proposal on these systems
should be prepared by each region for implementation over the next several
years. Arranging external technical assistance in this area should be a
priority.
83.       Each hospital should establish a review committee comprising
medical staff, local government officials and representatives of enterprise
workers, residents of rural areas and former hospital patients. The
committee should be responsible for regular review and monitoring of the
services and financial management of the hospital.
84.       Training.  Priorities for training of hospital staff should be
in subjects related to quality of medical care and areas for reform. Short
and long-term training should be carried out in hospital management and
health administration.
G. Rehabilitation Services
85.       Modern medicine has demonstrated the- rehabilitation services
are necessary for many hospitalized patients t. regain their physical and
mental health before resuming a normal life in the community.
Rehabilitation encompasses a spectrum of services extending from programs
offered to the patient during a hospital stay to simple therapies and
exercises and psychological counseling which can be undertaken at community
rehabilitation centers or even in the patient's home. Rehabilitation
centers within hospitals constitute an important link between health
professionals, rehabilitation workers and patients, but the majority of
services in rehabilitation should be performed in the community.
86.       Physicians should have a clear understanding of the concept of
rehabilitation for patients.  During treatment of illness or injury,
doctors should be developing a rehabilitation program for patients.  A
program might combine therapies of traditional Chinese and Western
medicine, nutrition planning, psychological counseling, and health



- 84 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 25 of 43
education for both patients and their families. Rehabilitation centers in
hospitals are responsible for delivering services directly as well as
helping to arrange for home care. Rehabilitation programs prescribed by
doctors should be carried out or supervised by trained nurses and
physiotherapists. Where appropriate, rehabilitation services should
include provision of therapeutic equipment, such as walking aids,
prostheses, splints, eyeglasses, special footwear and resistance devices
for physical exercises.
87.       Community-based rehabilitation activities should be organized by
community health workers and should be aimed at enabling patients to regain
functions needed in daily life. Health workers need to be trained in basic
rehabilitation and counselling so that they can help severely ill or
disabled patients adapt as readily as possible to returning home or to the
workplace. Community-based rehabilitation should be emphasized in the
regions, although it is important that rehabilitation centers for
outpatient services should not be developed into "mini-hospitals' through
the acquisition of overly sophisticated technology.
88.       In determining a patient's rehabilitation program, attention
should be paid to both physical and mental recovery needs. Mental health
professionals should play an important role in designing occupational
therapy and providing counselling and health education to patients and
their family members. Community services in mental rehabilitation should
be considered for all patients, not just the mentally ill.
89.       The first step to developing modern rehabilitation services is
to train a core group of health personnel who will be responsible for
development of region-wide rehabilitation services. The core group would
seek to provide in-service training for rehabilitation workers at various
levels and to establish community rehabilitation networks. The core group
should take steps to educate professionals and the general public on the
need for and benefits of rehabilitation. Close cooperation is required
between rehabilitation professionals in hospitals and the irstitutions that
train health workers.
90.       Coordination mechanism.  A rehabilitation coorainating group
should be established in each region under the RHC. The committee should
consist of representatives of the bureaus of health, civil affairs,
education, local women's federations, workers' groups and the committee of
the handicapped. The group is responsible for coordinating occupational,
educational and social rehabilitation services. A permanent office should
be arranged to support the coordinating group. The office could be located
at either a regional rehabilitation center or at the rehabilitation
department of a hospital. Staff of this office would need to develop a
rehabilitation network through providing technical guidance to the various
health institutions and community organizations. The office would need to
submit program proposals'to the coordinating group.



- 85 -                     MNFL.X2.
Page 26 of 43
91.       Institutions.  Each region should establish a regional
rehabilitation center, which could be either affiliated with a hospital or
exist separately in the community. The center would be responsible for:
(a) rehabilitation services for the most severely disabled
patients;
(b) technical guidance and training for rehabilitation workers
in the region;
(c) collection, analysis and reporting of data on
rehabilitation; other -.cesearch, including studies of
alternatives in rehabilitation techniques;
(d)  assistance in developing programs in hospitals for speech
correction, psychotherapy, occupational therapy, and other
areas of rehabilitation;
The center should have facilities adequate for physical therapy and the
instrumentation needed to evaluate a patient's functions and to conduct
therapy. Rehabilitation wards could be developed in existing hospital or
community facilities.  There should be systematic space planning so that
facilities are adequate to meet specific needs and take account of future
demand for rehabilitative services.
92.       Rehabilitation departments need to be established in regional
and county hospitals. It might be practical to build on existing
departments of physiotherapy. The number of beds in the department should
be justified by patient needs. Township health centers should be equipped
with basic equipment for rehabilitation.
93.       Trials with community services for rehabilitation should be
initiated in places where community leaders are supportive, economic
conditions are relatively strong and there exists a solid foundation of
primary, secondary and tertiary level health services. In design of trial
programs, demographic studies should be carried out to assess the age
structure of the community population, life expectancy, socioeconomic
features, and health risk factors. There -;hould also be investigation into
the methods of rehabilitation currently used in the area, the proficiency
of health personnel and the health sector and community resources
available.   These studies are the basis for defining needs and objectives
for trial programs.
94.       Training.  The following kinds of training should be provided to
support development of rehabilitation services:
(a) training of patients and their families, as well as
community workers such as Red Cross members, in the use of
specific rehabilitation techniques;



- 86 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 27 of 43
(b) training of village physicians and their assistants in
rehabilitation concepts and therapies;
(c) training of physicians in township health centers to
organize community rehabilitation services;
(d) training in program planning, organization and management
for directors of county rehabilitation offices;
development of train-the-trainer skills.
In addition, domestic and overseas study tours should be arranged for staff
of the regional rehabilitation centers. The senior rehabilitation
specialists might benefit from further study of rehabilitation in medical
school.
95.       Review of Services.  Studies should be undertaken to develop
understanding of the relative effectiveness of current rehabilitation
services and alternative approaches which could be tried. Studies of the
costs and benefits of rehabilitation services should be carried out. These
should identify the cost of rehabilitation per person in communities and in
rehabilitation centers, assess to what extent rehabilitation programs
reduce the length of stay in hospitals and consequently reduce overall
costs of health services. From these reviews, reasonable coefficients of
cost-sharing could be identified. The studies also generate evidence to
help promote the effectiveness of rehabilitation, in particular the value
of community services in helping patients improve their quality of life and
maximize their social and economic contributions. Indicators should be
developed to assess the progress in community-based rehabilitation during
implementation. Studies on the role of traditional Chinese medicine in
rehabilitation and the effectiveness of combining Chinese and Western
medicine should also be undertaken.
H. Medical Education and Training
96.       Provinces and regions need to develop human resource development
plans that correspond to the anticipated health requirements of the region.
The plans should cover at least the next five years and should identify the
necessary levels of staffing and the training that should be provided each
year. Special consideration should be given to areas where staff shortages
are severe, including nursing, diagnostic imaging. stomatology,
anaesthesia, laboratory work, community mental health and rehabilitation.
The regions should collaborate with medical training institutions in their
areas to determine how training needs should be met. In some cases,
training abroad is necessary.
97.       Teaching and learning conditions.  The participating educational
institutions need to improve living and instructional conditions for
teachers and students. Steps should be taken to improve the management of
medical school grounds and facilities. Dormitories should be well-
maintained, and students should be encouraged to maintain standards of



- 87 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 28 of 43
personal hygiene that they will foster the value of cleanliness and order
in their medical practice.
98.       Improvements in learning facilities should be focused on areas
for teaching rather than medical research. Conditions should be improved
for practical work in basic sciences, clinical medicine and public health.
Books and materials should be purchased to improve library collections.
Reading and study areas in libraries should be enlarged and hours of
operation should be extended. Capability should be developed for prodlcing
and using audio-visual learning materials. The equipment purchased should
be appropriate and cost-effective and there should be adequate budgetary
provision for operation and upkeep. Where appropriate, medical equipment
should be managed and shared through a central laboratory.
99.       Curriculum reform.  Medical school curricula should be reviewed
and revised. A course credit system should be introduced. The number of
required courses should be reduced while electives are increased.
Teaching should emphasize clinical practice and should include the
following subjects: changing medical practices, preventive strategies
against NCD, poisoning and injury, social medicine, health management,
health economics, medical psychology, emergency medicine, rehabilitation
and health education. To develop teaching of these disciplines, the
regior.al and provincial medical schools need considerable technical
assistance and training of the teaching staff.
100.      Teaching methods should also be updated.  Overemphasis on
lecturing should be reduced with incorporation of more practical exercises
and group discussion. The use of audio-visual aids should be increased and
used to stimulate group exchange, not always to provide an opportunity for
passive watching or listening. Technical assistance in this area should be
sought from the national melical audio-visual centers which were developed
under the first World Bank-supported health project. Regional and county
schools should seek to obtain audio-visual materials from higher level
institutions.
101.      Teaching bases.  Clinical teaching bases at hospitals and other
health institutions should be strengthened.   Even higher priority should
be given to the establishment of community laborato:ies aimed at disease
control. Undergraduates at medical schools should be required to spend a
portion of their time studying in the community laboratories, participating
in disease surveillance and epidemiological surveys, evaluating
effectiveness of health education and providing community rehabilitation
and MCH services.  Field research should be undertaken to strengthen
preventive strategies. It is important for students to be involved in
community disease control at an early stage in order to cultivate the
concept of community prevention.
102.      Continuing education.  Given the changing epidemiology and the
new approaches to be introduced in the regions, there will need to be
training to update the skills and knowledge of health professionals.



- 88 -                     ANNEX 2   ~  '
Page 29 of 43
In fact, a large number of health workers in the regions have received very
little or no formal training.  In-service training and continuing
education, therefore, constitute a critical activity in human resource
development for health services.
103.      The purpose of continuing education is to increase the expertise
of health professionals and ultimately improve the quality of medical care,
in terms of cost-effectiveness and health management. Continuing education
can be carried out through short or long-term, full or part-time training,
correspondence schools, and television education. Medical schools and
hospitals should cooperate closely in sharing facilities and resources for
tr&aning and education of existing health workers.
I.  Eguipment Management and Maintena~ice
104.      Under the RHC for each region, a committee should be established
to review and the level of medical technology in health institutions and to
develop systems for purchases and management of equipment. Development of
an equipment management system requires:
(a)  regulations for installation and maintenance of equipment;
(b)  operational procedures;
(c)  training;
(d)  standard examinations and licensing of equipment operators;
(e)  certificate systems for imported equipment costing more
than about Y 10,000;
(f)  standardized charges for equipment maintenance;
(g)  establishment of funds for equipment maintenance.
105.      Each region should establish a regional center for management
and maintenance of equipment. The centers should not only maintain and
repair equipmient but also assist the regional health bureau in managing and
purchasing equipment. The specific functions of the center should be:
(a)  providing advice on equipment purchase;
(b)  inspecting newly purchased equipment;
(c)  training maintenance and operation staff;
(d)  performing statistical analyses on the efficiency of
equipment utilization; if necessary, proposing
redistribution of existing equipment for more raticnal
usage;
(e)  organizirg and implementing systems for equipment
maintenance; and
(f)  defining regulations for equipment management.
106.      The center should be allocated sufficient building space to
accommodate offices, workshops, storage, and areas for inspection and
repair work as well as training. The center should also have a well-
stocked inventory of spare parts so that equipment can be repaired quickly
and individual health units are not burdened with having to develop and



-89 -                       ff.X
lage 30 of 43
store their own banks of spare parts. Vehicles are also necessary to
enable technicians to make on-site inspections and repairs of major
equipment. The center should arrange for training of its staff in other
provinces or abroad, as necessary. Staff of the regional equipment center
should train the maintenance staff for lower level health units, including
township health centers.
107.      Counties or individual health units which own large amounts of
equipment may establish couw,on maintenance groups or facilities which would
be integrated with the regional maintenance network. Such groups could be
responsible for routine maintenance of equipment and might also manage
centrally and lease the use certain equipment. This would ensure optimal
use of equipment and could reduce unnecessary duplicate purchasin- of
equipment.
III. Guideline for Provincial Support to Regions
108.      The development of health services in a given region should be
supported by health institutions, technology and services available at the
provincial level. Providing provincial support for the new programs and
approaches to be introduced in the regions will require allocations of
extrabudgetary resources to some provincial institutions. The activities
to be financed would be in two general categories: a) direct outreach
support services to patients, health professionals or health institutions
in the region; and b) institution-building initiatives to develop the
capability of provincial level institutions to provide support to the
regions in new areas of health services.
109.      Direct sunnort to regions by provincial institutions should be'
financed under the following conditions:
(a)  it is the explicit role of the provincial institution to
support or direct regional activities (e.g. the provincial
health bureau, medical university);
(b)  the provincial institution is the referral point for
complicated or very serious medical cases from the regions;
(c)  the provincial institution is designated to provide
technical guidance, training, or research inputs to the
regional program, which are incrementally much higher than
the support that would normally be provided.
The activities to be supported at the provincial level under this category
should be directly relevant to health service requirements in the region
and to the five-year health plans developed for the project.
110.      DeveloDment of provincial institutions.  Assistance to help
provincial institutions improve capability to provide outreach support
would, over the long-term, benefit the project regions along with other



- 90 -                     ANNEX 2-
Page 31 of 43
parts of the province. Benefits during project implementatiols, however,
would likely be less direct than those of other support activities. These
developmental activities would be mainly in the areas of health education,
emergency services and medical education. Activities undertaken in
provincial institutions should be consistent with the guidelines for health
services set forth in Section II or this document.
111.      The public health bureau in each province should actively
coordinate and supervise project activities in provincial level
institutions. Bureau staff should be prepared to provide or arrange for
technical assistance to project institutions on new approaches. The bureau
should designate and train staff to handle day-to-day project
administration. The Bureau should monitor implementation of regional
project activities and incorporate the experiences irto technical guidance
for other parts of the province.



-91 -                       ONEX 2
Page 32 of 43
Policy GuideliOns Annex I
Guidinjflg Pjfl'les in the Purchase of Large-Sized Equipment
1.   Each province and or region shall establish respesti'-sly an equipment
review committee with the following terms of reference:
1.   Review all applications for the purchase and or updating of
large-sized equipment;
2.   Make recommendations on the type and specification of the
approved equipment;
3.   Make a time-table for the purchase of the approved equipment in
its preferential order;
4.   Identify special requirements concerning building structure,
energy and others (such as air conditioning and ventilation,
etc) and requirments for installation;
5.   Take quality control measures and safety criteria as required;
6.   Propose on training of operators and medical staff;
7.   Identify supplies of spare parts and consumable items needed for
first year cooperation and preventive maintenance.
II. The committee shall include representatives of health providers,
administrative and finance officials and biomedical engineers.
III. Decisions on particular applications shall be made on the following
considerations:
1.   The need for the test or procedure in the light of its real
effectiveness for diagnosis or patient management;
2.   The optional alternative so far as its cost effectiveness is
concerned;
3.   The number of potential beneficiaries;
4.   Maximum utilization through the sharing of resources available;
5.   It is desirable for the committee to bear in mind the possible
advantages of locally manufactured equipment of certain types,
compared to advanced imported items.



- 92 -                     ANNEX-2
Page 33 of 43
Policy Guidelines Annex 2
Guidelines for Assessing Cost-Effectiveness to Imorove Health Programs
With rising costs :r' providing health services, the evaluation of the
effectiveness of new and established drugs, equipment, and techniques for
diagnosis, treatment, prevention, and rehabilitation is assuming greater
importance. In general, effectiveness can be determined only after
controlled experimental studies have been carried out.
The standard for testing effectiveness is the randomized controlled
clinical trial, in which a group of patients are randomly assigned to
either a study group or a control group. The inclusion of a control group
in a clinical study is important in determining whether the technology is
having the effect intended. Random selection of the groups is essential;
some studies using controls matched for a wide variety of characteristics
have later been shown to have false results because the two groups had
varied patterns of medical problems among their members. For example, if
the health problems of the control group are more serious than those of the
experimental group, the treatment being tested may appear more effective
than it actually is.
Randomized contrclled clinical trials are being undertaken more
frequently in many countries and the application of such studies is
growing. In China, controlled studies of the effectiveness and efficacy of
drugs are often conducted, but trials of other interventions are still
rare. Controlled studies are generally not done using randomization.
It is inappropriate to consider any medical intervention effective -
whether preventive, diagnostic, therapeutic, or rehabilitative - until
proof is available. The history of medicine, despite many advances in
approaches to health care, has included cases where technology is deemed
effective before conclusive evidence is available. Such cases may occur
when a technology is developed by a prestigious institution or investigator
and then produced and promoted widely by manufacturers of medical
tehchnology. Evaluation of the effects of the innovation may not be
undertaken for some time, or not at all.
Technologies that have been (or are) in widespread use in many
countries and now appear to be ineffective include: 1) a variety of
operations for coronary artery disease, such as internal mammary artery
ligation (coronary artery bypass graft, in use for ten years or so, is now
known to be effective in some cases); 2) insulin and electroshock treatment
for schizophrenia; 3) electronic fetal monitoring (not shown to be any more
effective than monitoring by stethoscope); 4) vectorcardiography (not
effective relative to electrocardiography); 5) gastric freezing for peptic
ulcer disease; 6) oral drug treatment for diabetes; 7) a variety of
diagnostic tests widely used in the 1960s and 1970s, such as sedimentation
rate and C-reactive protein; and 8) several secondary preventive programs



- 93 -                     ANEX 2
Page 34 of 43
such as screening all women for breast cancer by mammography (only shown to
be effective for women over the age of 50 years).
Evaluating diagnostic -rocedures raises particular problems for
researchers, as diagnosis itself does not directly affect health.
Assessment of diagnostic procedures has therefore tended to focus on
precision in terms of sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value.
There is increasing evidence that diagnostic technology contributes to the
effectiveness of health care. This field of study is developing rapidly
and has potential to benefit China considerably as further large
investments in diagnostic equipment are planned.
Safety of health interventions is a factor that must always be
considered. Therapeutic results may be relatively obvious; if a therapy
does not benefit many people with a disease, it probably should not be
used. Risks of an intervention are often not so obvious. They may occur
at much lower rates and can be discovered only with populations studies.
Often, an intervention is put into use and its harmful effects recognized
only after it has been used in thousands of people for some years. For
example, x-ray examination of the pelvis of pregnant women was used for
decades before epidemiological studies linked its use to leukemia and other
cancers in the offspring. Diethylstilbesterol (DES), a synthetic estrogen
(female hormone), was used for years in attempts to prevent premature labor
in pregnant women before cancer and other problems were recognized in the
offspring and in the women who had taken the drug.
Financial costs are critical in assessing any use of technology ir.
health care. An intervention may achieve a desired outcome but may also be
very expensive. For example, renal dialysis is an effective and lifesaving
therapy for those with end-stage renal disease. The fee for one treatment
is about Rmb. 300, and since treatment must be given at least twice a week,
the annual cost of treatment for one patient is more than Rmb. 30,000 a
year. Health planners face critical choices when such resources could be
used more cost-effectively to save a higher number of lives with less
expensive preventive or curative approaches. For example, the funds
required to treat one patient for end-stage renal disease could be used to
treat many patients effectively to avoid or manage the risk factors of
severe hypertension, smoking, or the development of diabetes--three of the
main causes of renal disease. Or, if other methods of treatment of renal
disease are available that cost much less, should dialysis be used?
Another way to look at the issue is are funds more wisely spent on renal
dialysis or on immunizing all children against infectious disease, which is
low cost and effective in prefventing early death?
Economists have developed techniques of cost-effectiveness analysis
to determine relative value of interventions.  Examples of these techniques
Include:
l)Cost-minimization studies in which effectiveness of two or more
alternatives is assumed to be equal and relative costs are compared.



-94 -
Page 35 of 43
2)Cost-effectiveness analysis which measures effectiveness in units of
health, such as numbers of life-years saved, and compares the costs
of alternatives. A researcher might conclude that saving one year of
life using one technique costs Rmb. 10,000, while another technique
might cost Rmb. 20,000 to save one year of life.
3)Cost-utility anslysis in which effectiveness is measured by a
specific health assessment technique, such as quality-adjusted life
years (QALYs). Different interventions, such as prevention and
therapeutic measures, can be directly compared using this technique.
4)Cost-benefit analysis in which both effectiveness and costs are
expressed in monetary terms. This approach usually reqtuires placing
a monetary value on human life, a process that is problematic and
controversial. For this reason cost-benefit analysis is used
relatively rarely in health research.
China's doctors, public health departments and medical schools have
relatively little experience with assessment techniques. In view of
China's large population, growing burden of chronic diseases, and limited
resources for health care, the subject of technology assessment should be
given high priority in development and research and in the education and
training of medical staff. Technology assessment is any method--simple or
sophisticated--that increases understanding of the consequences of
technological choices. The regions and provinces in the Integrated
Regional Health Development Project are encouraged to use technology
assessment in preparing their annual plans and in evaluating the progress
and results of programs.



- 95 -                     ALI=S 2
Page 36 of 43
Policy Guidelines Annex 3
Quality Control in Hospitals
1.   IKPORTANCE
Unless a systematic program of quality control is introduced, hospital
services may become preoccupied with quantitative aspects of health care.
As a result, the quality of delivery, personnel services and cost effective
use of scarce resources suffers.
All hospital personnel must be trained and motivated to take pride and
active interest in the quality of the service given. Not only high quality
care results but also good housekeeping and efficient use of resources.
2.   PATIENT COMPLAINTS ABOUT CARE
2.1 Communication Problems
Many studies have shown patients lack freely offered information and have
anxiety about:
the diagnosis of the illness
explanation of symptoms
reasons for treatment and drugs prescribed
prognosis of the disease
what was done at operation
diet changes necessary
effects of illness on sex
permissible activity on discharge
long-term illness management
information about frightening procedure
evasiveness of staff
long waiting periods
2.2 Patient Education Needs
On admission - confidence promotion by suitable staff memeber -
explanation of hospital routines ard schedules, of staff functions -
preliminary regime
Diagnostic procedures - explanation of what, why, when, where, how of
tests and timing - reassurance about technological investigations
Therapy - nature and implications of treatment and patient's own role
- teaching of necessary skills eg diabetes - discussion groups with
other patients - questionnaire to verify patients' understanding
Discharge and rehabilitation - activity and occupation instructions
with appropriate literature if needed - advice to relatives on



- 96 -                     ANNE2
Page 37 of 43
aftercare - clear instructions on follow-up care, drugs needed,
future visits - advice to rehabilitation or work agency.
3.   COMPONENTS OF QUALITY IN CARE
3.1  General Hospital Services
clean, attractive environment
functional arrangement allowing orderly flow of work or patient
movement through the institution
clear sign posting and marking of departments
cheerful reception and attentive personal service to the patient
health education policy for implementation by appropriate staff
hospital brochure for patients and appropriate evaluation instruments
confortable waiting areas and refreshment services
adequate toilet arrangements for outpatients
3.2  Utilities and Domestic
good lighting especially in procedural areas
convenient water supply and power
adequate to'let and hygiene facilities with hygieniic surfaces and
drainage
good repair and maintenance facilities
adequate heating
hygienic kitchens
adequate storage
sufficient and appropriate ward furniture
3.3 Administration
good reception and patient processing facilities
short waIting periods
clear cut admission procedures
efficient bed utilization
efficient accounts system, costs and data
up-to-date disaster plan
vigorous in-service training program
3.4 Emergency Services
well-located, spacious and well-lit emergency room
hospital protocols for all common emergencies
satisfactory furniture including beds, trolleys, plumbing
adequate equipment accessible and not locked, regularly checked
enough trained staff for rostering
alarm system
register properly completed
3.5 In-Patient Services



-97 -                      ANNEX-2
Page 38 of 43
delineation of privileges for each hospital department
peer review and case conference
close observation of seriously ill patients
efficient sterilization service, regularly checked
up-to-date and relevant statistics
approved drug lists and side effects, protocols and reporting of
utilization
blood transfusion service
hospital cross infection data
available essential equipment and supplies
preventive orientation in treatment
3.6  Technological Services
satisfactory eupply and condition of equipment
regular maintenai;ce of equipment
training of technicians
accurate estimation of throughput and unit cost of procedures and
tests
diagnostic test clarity and reporting
procedures for test and verification/calibration of results
3.7  Staff Training Program
learner-centred methods
task orientation
tutorial skills of staff
available teaching equipment
library and reference resources
training materials available
3.8  General Hygiene and Infection Control
disposal of human wastes and pathological materials
water supply and testing
pest control program
garbage disposal
kitchen hygiene
4.   CLINICAL AUDIT (MEDICAL MANAGEMEUT ANALYSIS)
4.1 Defined
The measurement of treatment effectiveness and efficiency of health care.
4.2 Levels of Audit
Individual health worker - critical personal review of each
therapist's cure and complication rate, patient handling, use of



- 98 -                     ANNEX2
Page 39 of 43
resources, diagnostic, therapeutic and technological skills, updating
of knowlege, interaction with colleagues, communication with patient
Departihental - appraisal of Department's role and performance,
throughput and caseloads, statistical results, team function,
utilization of resoruces, contribution to teaching
Institutional - hospital accreditation performance, evaluation of
results, referral patterns, cure and complication rates, procedure
analysis, resource utilization, patient-staff interaction and patient
satisfaction, cost-benefit analysis
4.3  Measures of Diagnostic Effectiveness
agreed test procedure rates
agreed disease specific examination rates
operator and test accuracy review
interpretation of results and reporting
quality control of chemicals, reagents and laboratory procedures
reviews of results
post mortem reviews
cause of death verification
4.4  Treatment Effectiveness
disease-specific procedures rates
cure rates and criteria
hospital stay and utilization rates
complication rates
hospital infection rate
patterns of drug prescribing and availability
side effects and iatrogenesis reports
protocols for treatment of leading diseases and emergencies
clinical conference and peer review
intensive care results
death rates, disease specific and trends
patient education program
follow-up care and rehabilitation
relevant community after-care
clinical research
4.5  Hospital Infection Control
infection control committee/responsibility
statistical review of infection rates
sterilization procedures
post-procedural infection
antibiotic use review
disposal of infectious wastes



99- 
Page 40 of 43
4.6  Administrative Effectiveness
records quality and usage
staff development program
data preparation, utilization and feedback
hospital safety program
physician privileges review
clinical supervision practices
logistical support for departments
economic analysis:
- hospital lengt!. of stay
-    procedures costs
-    drugs costs
-    expendables costs
-    salaries
waiting lists
referral system efficiency
availability of emergency services and plans
5.   SPECIAL INDICATORS FOR MEDICAL MhN&GEENKT ANALYSIS
5.1  Admission. Transfer or Referral
patients readmitted for complications of previous hospitalization
any instance of inter-hospital transfer
transfer of patients from general to intensive care
admission or discharge problems occurring with any referred patients
deficiencies in after-care or rehabilitation of a patient
patient/family disatisfaction with treatment outcome
5.2 Procedural Problems
unplanned return to operating room
unplanned removal, injury to or repair of organ or structure during
surgery, invasive procedures or vaginal delivery
surgery or invasive procedures which do not meet relevant
departmental criteria for appropriate care
cardiac or respiratory arrest during hospital care
hospital-incurred patient accident
transfusion reactions, complications or improper use of blood or
blood products
nosocomial infections
occurrence of neurological deficit not present on admission of
patient
death of patient
5.3 Patient Management
abnormal diagnostic test results overlooked during hospitalization



- 100 -                    ANNE  2
Page 41 of 43
antibiotic or drug prescription which is unjustified, excessive,
inadequate or results in iatrogenic outcomes
poor bed utilization causing unproductive bed days
documentation and medical record deficiencies arising from:
-   medical staff neglect
-   nursing staff neglect
-   medical records system ineffectiveness



- 101 -                    ANNE 2
Page 42 of 43
Policy Guidelines Arjex 4
Indicators for the Valuation of Implementation of Regional Health Program
I.   Indicators for health policy:
1.   The extent of importance leading persons in project regions have
attached to regional health programme;
2.   The adequacy of funds allocated from regional government budget
to regional health activities (and primary health care
services);
3.   The equity of distribution of resources; and
4.   The maturity and effectiveness of organizational structure and
managerial process for the formulation and implementation of
regional health programme.
II. Health-related socio-economic indicators:
1.   Population increase rate;
2.   GNP;
3.   Distribution of income;
4.  Employment;
5.   Education;
6.   Housing; and
7.   Focd supplies.
III. Indicators for health care delivery:
The 1st category of indicators:
1.   Coverage of health care services;
2.   Accessibility of health care services;
-    in terms of distance and time;
-    in terms of payment ability; and
-    in terms of culture background
3.   Utilization of health care services; and
'i-  Qiuality of health care services.



- 102 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 43 of 43
The 2nd category of indicators: coverage of primary health care
services.
1.   Health education;
2.   Food supplies and nutrition status;
3.   Water supply facilities;
4.   MCH;
5.   EPI;
6.   Control of endemic diseases;
7.   Control of commonly-seen diseases and injuries
8.   Provision of essential drugs; and
9.   Facilities accessibility, and geographical distribution of
referral facilties.
IV. Health Indicators
The first category of indicators: basic health status
1.  Nutrition and sociopsychology status;
2.   Infant mortality;
3.   Children mortality (under 5 years of age);
4.   Childhood mortality (over 5 years of age);
5.   Average life expectancy; and
6.   Maternal mortality.
The second category of indicators: other health indicators
1.   Case fatality rates;
2.   Gross death rates;
3.   Disability prevalence and incidence; and
4.   Social and mental well-being.



CHINA
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Summary by Project Component
(US$ Thousands)                                                       20-MA-SO 10:47 AM
PRojxa -Cons                  CIVL WORKS                 EOUIPMENT        TRAINING     TECH. AS8T.    New  bIe6nmt' 
RshIlftation    Constuction    Loca   Fwfegn  Local Foreign  Local ForeWn Program    Op.  Mantnn  New Staff         TOTAL       of
roea4t) CMst  AreeaM2) Cod       Cod      Cost    Cost  Cost   Csd    Cost   Cod    Cost              # HIed   Cost             Tota
Health Manaement                  350   84.1   S6W       50.6   940.1    70.2  700.7   84.6  111.6   67.9  2.137.0  212.0  141.9  107.0  264.5   4,945.2    4.4%b
Die Preventon and Surveillanee  13122  398.7  260    3,138.6  2,972.7  1,56.4  743.0  139.0  229.8   61.7  4,365.1  016.1  896.0  731.5 1,094.1  16.548.9    14.6%
Health Educaion                   400   2?.0  4462  1,924.4  1.001.3   800.1  361.0  144.7  36o.4   13.6  2,673.6  386.0  387.3  244.0  4186.    8.5E3.8         7.6%
iatwenal and Child Health Service    6100  313.?  6176  2,200.8  1,580.7   479.6  393.5    0.0  90.5    4.0   600.6  206.8  3068  334.0 1.424.6   7,850.3    S."%
Energenc Service                 6900  667.1  4935  2,389.5  3,775.0  2,180.2  679.0   77.6  204.3   43.1   011.1 1163.2 1.145.3  243.0  587.1  13.713.1    12.1%
Hoial ServIe                    90318 4.280.9  25174  9,203.0  4,213.4  6.04.5   509.6   53.9  205.7    0.0   676.3 1,181.2 1,375.7  506.0  848.7  28,7P4.0   25.4%
Rehabiltatin                     4400   86.3  4350  1,501.0   712.9   165.2  285.3   16.2  194.3   17.5   758.5  197.0  234.0  190.0  2190.    4,369.0    3.9%
Medi  Education and Traning     38437 1,770.3  14062  5,441.2  5,045.4  1,30.8  341.6  246.4  250.1   55.3  3,430.7 1,584.8 1,532.7  328.3  063.3  22,301.6   19.7%
EqupmeManeagent                  1014   86.3   1590    521.8  1,851.2   864.7  104.5   19.9   37.5   11.9   179.5  210.0  200.1   64.0  138.2   3,025.7    3.5%b
NatlOnaltOmponetn                  0    0.0       0       0.0     0.0    20.9  245.0   45.0  190.5  701.1   U21.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   2,030.0    18%
TOTAL                         166641 7,632.2  6133 26,461.8 22,092.8  13,914.6 4,504.5   28.2 1.895.7  975.0 16,653.0 0,088.1 6,312.7 2,747.8 5,707.4  113,038.5   100.0%b 
% of TOTAL                               0.8%           23.4%b   19.5%    12.3%   4.0%b  0.7%A   1.7Sb   0.9%    14.7Sb   5.4Ab   5.6%        5.0%b   100.04b
Cost Summary by RegionlProvinoe/National Component
(USS Thousands)
CIVIL WORKS                EOUIPMENT       TRAINING      TECH. ASST.    New   creml                                       9b
ReglonlProvince         RehablIitatllAr   Consucin     Local   Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign Progran   Op.  MaInt'n  New Staff      TOTAL       of
Area (M2 .osd  rea (M2 Cost       Cot    Cost    Co    Cst   Cosd    Coat  Costs   Cost                 Hired   Cot             TOTAL
JhiuangF Region (Jlangxl        17923  481.9 104B35  6,723.1  4,165.9  2,308.9 1,378.1  136.2  354.0   28.3  2,225.0  693.0 1,562.3 1,121.3 1,389.5  23,410.6    20.7%
Jangpxl ProvInce                163S0 1,005A  10960  1,155.0  2,440.6  2,180.2  328.0  1790.   200.1   44.7  1,701.9 1,260.1 1,043.7  142.0  470.5  12,099.2    10.7%
Jinhua egion (Zheang)           30704 1,807.7  669   7,765.4  4,304.8  2,067.9  948.9   02.3  312.0   53.9  3,587.7  881.0  636.1  857.0 2,552.1  20,190.3   23.2%
Zhejlan Province                 4150  300.8  11820  2,115.0  2,364.4  1,099.3  343.5  263.8  280.2  100.4  2,474.0  583.3  575.1  139.6  271.0  11,794.3    10.49b
Beau Region (ShaanxI)           85820 3,022.9  40210  4,332.3  5,805.4  2,891.4  655.9   14.6  253.1    5.4  3,524.0 1.482.0 1,325.1  374.0  739.4  24,031.7    21.3%
EtuuuudProvince                 138e4  7434  18001  2,379.  2.991.,  1JQ0.9  W06A    973  293.3   30.1  2,317.3 1.218.1 -.000.6  114.0  248.0  13,473.3    11.9qe    go 
NaIonal Connponent                 0    0.0       0       0.0     0.0    29.9  245.0   45.0  196.5  701.1   821.0    0.         0.0    0.0    0.0   2,039.0      1.8%     f 
TOTAL                        168641 7,632.2 252774 28,481.5 22.0928  13,014.5 4,804.5  828.2 1,805.7  975.9  16,683.0 0,008.1 6,312.7 2.747.8 56.4A  113,038.6   100.0%  0
O0



CHINA
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Zhejiang Provincial Level Component, Indicative Five Year Investment Program                   08-Feb-89 0520 PM
(US$ Thousands)
CIVIL WORKS               EQUIPMENT   TRAINING        TECH. ASST.   New  Incrmtl 
ProectComponent        Rehabiliain     Condructon    Local Foreign  LoalW Forelgn Local roreign Program   Op.  Malnfn   New maff       TOTAL       of
ArsaM2) Cost  rea(M2) Cost   Codt   Co        Cot   Codl  Cost  Cost  Cois   Codis                Hired   Cod             TOWl
Hea  Management                    0    0.0       0    0.0   53.9   14.3   10.8   10.8  5.4    5.9   782          21.8   11.6    8.C   211.6     234.2     2.0%
DieeasePreventonandSurvsillnce    S60   80.9   140   43.1  206.1  163.2   61.5   31.5  55.2   20.1  525.3    93.3   61.7   43.5  117.9    1459.9    12.4%
Health Educaion                   400   27.0  3360  336.9   29.6  3236   110.5   40.4  68.9    0.0  619.1    65.3   67.4   12.0   21.0    1719.7    14.0%
Maternal and Child Health Services  0    0.0      0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    o.        0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0%
Emergency Service                  0    0.0  3200  638.8  267.0  363.3   80.9   39.9  80.9   40.4   78.'   181.9  235.5   67.0   07.0    2103.8    17.8%
Hoil servIces                      0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0    0.0    *            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0%
RehabIition                        0    0.0       0    0.0   32.3   16.2   24.3    8.1  16.2    0.0       . A4    16.2    8.1    0.0    0.0      161.7     1.4%
Medil Educatn and TrinIng        3200  263.0   6100  1097.0  1300.2  988.9   42.0  113.2  31.5   39.9  1099.7   155.0  157.7    5.0    8.1    5316.3    45.1%
EquipmentM anagement               0    0.0       0    0.0  495.1  129.9   13.6   19.9  8.1    0.0   33.7    59.8   33.2    4.0    5.4           798.7    6.8%
Natonal Component                  0    0.0       0    G.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0%
TotalCoist                       4150  390.8  11620 2115.9 2384.4  1999.3  343.5  263.8 266.2  106.4 2474.6   583.3  575.1  139.6  271.0   11794.3   100.0%
% of Total                               3.3%          17.9%  20.2%  17.0%   2.9b  2.2%  2.4%A  0.9%  21.0%       4.9%   4.9%           2.3%    100.0%                 o
Zhejiang Provincial Level Component, 1989 Plan Budget
(US$ Thousands)
CIVIL WORKS               EQUIPMENT   TRAINING        TECH. ASST.   New  lncremtil                                    *A
ProjectComponent       Rehabilitaton   Conetruction    Local Foreign  Local Foreign Local Foreign Progam   Op.  Malntn   New Staff      TOTAL      of
Area(M2) Cost  Area(M2) Cost   Coit   Coit   Coit   Coil  Coil  Coit  Costs   Coste             U Hired   Cost            TOal
Health Management                  0    0.0       0    0.0    109    8.4    4.0    0.0  0.8    0.8   15.6          1.3    0.8   21.8    4.!i      36.0     1.7%
Disease Prentionand Surveillance    100   53.9    60   19.9  131.4   62.1   10.5   21.1   7.6    1.2  101.4    14.4    9.1  111.9   22.4         455.0    20.3%
Heeah Education                   400   27.0      0    0.0    0.0   62.0   29.6    0.0  21.6    0.0  117.3         3.8    3.6   10.8    2.2      26.8    11.9%
Maternal end Child Health Services  0    0.0      0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0%
EmergencyServlc                     0    0.0      0    0.0    6.6    0.0   11.9   19.9  11.9   40.4   14.0         3.3    2.2   18.9    3.8       114.0    5.1%
Hospal Servics                      0    0.0      0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0%        * 
Rehabilitation                      0    0.0      0    0.0    3.2    1.6    2.4    0.8   1.8    0.0    4.0         1.6    0.8    0.0    0.0        16.2    0.7%       0
Medical Educaton and Training    2000  175.2  2800  423.2   51.2    0.0    7.6   13.5  2.7    0.0  156.3    19.9    5.4    0.0    0.0             865.0    39.1%
Equipment Management                0    0.0      0    0.0  428.8   35.0    5.4   19.9  2.7    0.0    4.9          2.2    0.0    6.4    1.1       600.0    22.3%         w
National Component                  0    0.0      0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0% OO
TotaiCostfor 1989                2500  256.1  2660  443.1  623.1  169.2   71A    75.3  48.9   42.4  413.6    48.5   21.7  108.5   33.8    2248.0   100.0%             0D
%of TOal                                11.4%          19.7%  27.846  7.5%   &2%   3.4%  2.2%    1.9%  18.4%       2.1%   1.0%           1.6%    100.0%



CHINA
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jlnhua Region (Zhejiang), Indicative Five Year Investment Program
(USS Thousands)                                                         0889  0620PM
CIVIL WORKS               EOUIPMENT   TRAINING        TECH. A5ST.  Now  Incr.mt' l 
Proi ctCompo           Rehablftation   Construction    Locd  Forign  Local Foreign Local Foreign Program   Op.  Maintn   New Staff    TOTAL       ot
AreaM2) Cost Area(M2) Cod    Cost   Cod   Cod   Cod   Coat  Coat  Costs   Costs                U Hired   Coat            Totl
Halh Management                    0    0.0   355   30.3  168.7   15.2  1742    0.0  17.3   48.5  043.5    36.8   22.7   48.0  146.0    1603.1    6.1%
Dlse Prvenon and Survsillance   6814  160.8  8551  1427.0  676.9  240.8   00.5   20.3  20.0    5.4  818.6   103.8  t11.1  201.0  3890.3    3941.2    15.0%
Heah 6iration                      0    0.0   1105  119.1  191.1   30.4   90.6   18.1  62.0    0.0  424.5    21.6   21.0   80.0  107.8    1002.7    42%
MatwnalandChldHealth Swvces     800   43.1  6300   79.2  572.2  136.0  113.7    0.0  38.6    0.0  260.1    06.1  112.1  100.0 11163.    316112   12.1%
Emergency SrvIc                  900   48.   2710  237.7  226.4  278.6  102.4    0.0  21.6    0.0   59.3    61.1   30.6   19.0   00.7    1161.            4.4%b
Hospital Servse                19180 1542.9  20937 3480.2  1342.6 2219.6  260.3   63.0  73.0    0.0  474.4   321.4  301.1  279.0  521 8   10679.2   40.4%
Rehabilitation                     0    0.0  3640  441.5  116.2    0.7   66.6    0.0  22.4    0.0  279.8    23.1   23.8   27.0   62.3    1031.2           30%
MedIl Education and Training    3400   102.4  11800  1189.0  781.8   22.8   42.7    0.0  51.2    0.0  326.5   224.9  193n   33.0  90.8    3001.9    1 1.6%
EquipmentMangemnt                  0    0.0  2800  202.2  329.9   12.7   28.8    0.0  S.4    0.0    5.4           3.8    8.2   10.0   21.S      617.8    2.4%
Natonal Component                  0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0    0.0 .0.0           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0%
Totdal Cot                     30704 1897.7  68808  7786.4 4304.8 2067.9  948.9   92.3 312.0   83.9 3587.7   881.0  A36.1  857.0 2562.1   26190.3  100.0%
TofTal                                  7.2%          29.6%  16.4%  11.3%   3.0%   0.4%  1.2%   0.2%  13.7%      3.4%   3.2%   3.3%   9.7%    100.0%                  O
Jinhua Region (Zhejlang), 1989 Plan Budget
(US$ Thousands)
CIVIL V.MORKS             EQUIPMENT   TRAINING        TECH. ASST.   New  Incremtl 
ProectComponent        RehablItation   Contucton    Local Foreign  Local Foreign Loal Fhorin Program    Op.  Maintn   New Staff       TOTAL       of
Area(M2) Cosd  AreaM    o Co   Co     Cost   Coat   Coat  Cod   Cost  Coat   Coat                 Hired   Cod            TOal
Het Managment                      0    0.0   386   30.3  106.6   152   36.0    0.0  0.4    0.0  185.S            0.0    0.0   32.3    7.4      379.4     3.4%
nO.-Vsa Preveon andt SurveIllane   8940  107.8  3277  351.1  676.0  240.8   16.6    7.1  12.0    6.4  163.7    20.8   23.2  140.2   28.0    1553.3   14.1%
Healh Educatin                     0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0   30.7   10.0  15.6    0.0   91.9        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      148.2    1.3%
Mater  and Child Health Servk    800   43.1   2300  248.0  187.2   38.8   14.0    0.0  12.9    0.0   17.3         3.7    4.5   83.9   27.0      607.0    5.4%
Emegey SerIc                     900   48.5  2710  237.7  226.4  278.6   27.0    0.0  6.4    0.0   11.9    10.2    7.3   51.2   19.0            872.0    7.%
HopltaJ Servlwee                7800  862.6  13203 1400.3  084.4 2122.0   88.2   21.6  11.4    0.0  105.7    64.3  e0.4  150.0   34.7    5476.1    4s.7%
RehabIlItat0n                      0    0.0   520   63.1   29.0    0.0   12.4    0.0  2.9    0.0   43.6           0.9    1.3   27.0    S.4      158.5     1.4% 
MedIcal Education and TraInIng  1300   35.0  6200  860.6  728.4   22.8   20.8    0.0  13.5    0.0   50.6    43.1   36.6   83.9   17.0    163.4    14.0%
Equipment Managenwnt               0    0.0  2800  202.2   77.8    0.0   10.8    0.0  2.7    0.0    2.2           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      206.6     27%1
Nodnoal Componet                   0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0   2.o    0.0    0.0  0.07 0.0     0.0           0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0 %    .0 
TOWCod$ for1Qs                 18449  787.1  300e  3153.2 2916.7  m81.8  234.9   3a.7  7es    5.4  en23    143.0  135.3  609.4  13a.4   11020.5   1oo.o              ^
% of Tatm                               7.1%          28.e%  2e.6eb  24.74b   2.1%   0.4"* 0.7%   0.O0b  6.1%    1.3%   1.2%           1.3%    100.onT



CHINA
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jiangxi Provincial Level Component, Indicative Five Year Investment Program                    08-Feb-89 04:13PM
(US$ Thousands)
CIVL WORKS               EQUIPMENT    TRAINING    TECH. ASST.    New  Incremtil
Project Componet       Rehabiaon       Constuction    Loca  Foreign  Local Foregn  Local Foeign Prorm    op.   Maintn   New SM         TOTAL       Of
AreM2 Cost Area(M2) Cost    Cost   Cost   Cost   Cdt   Cot    Cost Cost   Cost                     Himed   Cost           Total
Hea  Management                   s0    3.2       0    0.0   18.1   38.0   10.8   10.8    SA    13.5   67A        14.6    6.7    6.0   24.3      212.9     18%
Dises Prevention and Surveillance    200   19.4   0 .  0.0  296.8  310.2   80.3    7.8   31.0    7.'  319.9   181.9  116.1   16.0   37.7    1387.1    11.%
Heth Education                     0    0.0  2000  215.6  104.3  161.7   25.1    0.0   31.6    0.0  447.4    89.2   89.3   26.0   64.2    1198.5    .9%
Matewn  and Child Health ServIces  0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0%
Emrgeny SerIc                  3000  303.9  2000  323.5  614.3  762.8   81.9   2a.5   83.9    0.0  234.0   332.6  307.0   46.0  129.4    3226.7   26.7%
Hospia Servcoe                     0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0%
Rehabilitatlon                     0    0.0       0    0.0   32.3   16.2   24.3    8.1    8.1    8.1   40.4    1e.2    8.1    0.0    0.0         161.7     1.3%
Medica Education and Training  13080  708.9  69S0  481.1  1192.1  653.6  111.6  129.6   62.0   ISA   678.0   664.2  517.0   41.0  209.2    1222.5    42
Eqpm      tManagement              0    0.0  1000  134.8  182.7  237.7   15.1    0.0    8.1    0.0   14.8    51.2   30.5    5.0   14.8    680.8            5.7%
Natina Component                   0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0%
0             0                                                                               0.0
Total Costs                    13110 1095.4  10980  1156.0 2440.0 2180.2  328.0  179.8  200.1   44.7  1701.0  1250.1  1043.7  142.0  479.8   12000.2  100.06
%of Total                               9.1%           9.5   20.2%   18.0%   2.7%   1.5%   1.7%   0.4%  14.1%    10.3%   8.6%           4.0%    100.0%
Jiangxi Provincial Level Component, 1989 Plan Budget
(USS Thousands)
CIVIL WORKS              EOUIPMENT    TRAINING    TECH. ASST.    New  Incret'l 
Projet Component       Rhabiiton       Constuctin    Local Foreign  Loca  Foreign  Local Foreign Proram   op.   Mint'n   New MS         TOTAL      of
Area("2) Cost beaMW  Cost    Cost   Cost   Cost   Cost   csos tOs  Costs   Costs                 # H9ed   Cost             TotWl
Health Management                 80    3.2       0    0.0   18.1   38.0    5.4    0.0    1.3    2.7   13.S        1.1    1.3    6.0    4.9       89.5    3.%
Diae Prevention and Survellianc  160   11.3       0    0.0  191.3  110.2    8.3    0.8   10.8    0.8   54.0    28.1    8.6   10.0    5.4         428.0   16.9qs
Health Education                   0    0.0       0    0.0   32.3    0.0    6.7    0.0    8.5    0.0   70.1        2A      0.8   17.0    92      130.0    5.1%
Maternal and Child Health Services  0    0.0      0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0%b
Emergency sevice                3000  363.9   1000  161.7  463.3    0.0   13.6    2.7    8.1    0.0   45.8    o0.6   86.6   48.0   28.9    1202.3   47.5%
Hospita Sevces                     0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0%
RehabIlitation                     0    0.0       0    0.0    3.2    1.0    2.4    0.8    0.8    0.8    4.0        1.6    0.8    0.0    0.0       16e2     0.6%
Medicl Education and Training   1800  107.8       0    0.0  277.2   77.1   17.3    0.0    7.5    0.0   71.8    86.1    8.4   12.0   17.8         6409.8   28.7%41
Equimnent uanagcment               0    0.0       0    01.0    0.0    0.0    4.6    0.0    4.0    0.0    2.4       0.8    0.5    3.0    1.9       14.3    0.9%
Nadonal Component                  0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0%       ..,
TotalCoate tw1989               8010  480.3  1000  161.7  985.5  226.9  568.2    4.3   41.1    4.3  262.1   167.8   77.1   98.0   68.0    2830.1   100.0%
% of Tota                              19.2%           6A.%  38.9%   9.0%   2.3%   0.2%    1.6%   0.2%  10.4%      6.2%   3.0%           2.6%    100.0%



CHINA
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jiujiang Region (Jlangxi), Indicative Five Year Investment Program                               C 9-F.-  04:13 PM
(US$ Thousands)
CIVLWORKS                EQUIPMENT    TRAINNG    TECH.ASST.    New   ncremtl 
Po   Compon            PhabilUtaion    Cnsnuction    Local For    Loca  Foreign  Lol Foreign Progran   op.  Mhln   Nw Stall            TOTAL       of
"OM   Cost Area(M2) Cod        OM    Cost   Cost   Cost   Cost   Cost Costs   Costs             * Hired   Cost             TOtl
Heao Manaoemnt                     0    0.0       0    O.C  202.5    0.0  486.7   43.7   43.1    0.0  319.7    38.5   29.4   20.0   32.3    12179          6.6*
Dises Prention and Stuailanoe    2300   37.2  10765  672.0  878.8  307.8  357.1   60.0   20.1    6.1  9412    127.9  247A   402.0  421.6    42792    183%
Health EducaIon                    0    0.0  3580  430.0  351.8   60.6   40.4   31.5   55.8   13.5  294.6    43.2   46.9   f2.0   80.9    1440.8    6.2%
MawndealnChildHealfth8 rv       2000  196.1  11663  971.4  385.3    6.9  110.6    0.0   17.8    4.0  1762         41.0  137.5   06.0  135.8    2219.8    9.6%
Emerec Sevie                       0    0.0  69O0   534.5  355.2   88.7   85.6    0.0   27.0    2.7   67.2    70.1  123.0   79.0  167.7    1512.1    0.5%
Hosptl srwvIe                  12623  228.0  48147 4068.0  837.0  1657.4  153.2    0.0  121.8    0.0   51.2   254.4  648.6  100.0  205.7    8240.2   35.f2t
PahabiNtion                     1000   21.6  11000  6858.2  307.1   13.5   83.4    0.0   38.0    0.0   80.3    38.5  117.2  137.0  119.7    1677.5    7.2%
Medl Education and Training        0    0.0  10710  824.0  511.2  103.8   36.0    0.0   24.5    0.0  283.0    60.0  148.2  144.3  211.6    2210.4    9.4%
Equipmen Managemnwt                0    0.0  2100  144.5  246.1   20.2   12.1    0.0    6.5    0.0   13.5    13.2   27.5   16.0   24.3           507.8    2.2%
Natinal Component                  0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0%
Totl Code                      17923  481.9 104835 8723.1  4165.9 2306.0 1378.1   35.2  354.6   28.3 2225.9   693.0  1562.3  1121.3  1389.5   23410.8   100.0%
% of Total                              2.1%          37.3%  17.8%   9.9%   5.9%   0.6%   1.5%   0.1%   9.5%       3.0%   6.5%          5.9%    100.0%                I
Jiujiang Region (Jiangxi, 1989 Plan Budget
(US$ Thousands)
CML WORKS                EQUIPMENT    TRAINING    TECH4. ASST.    New  Incremtl
ProjlectComponent      RehaWbilitation  Constuction    Local Foreign  Lcal Foreign  Local Forein Program   op.   Malnt'n   New Stal     TOTAL      of
kea(M    Cot Are(M2) Cost    Cod   Cost   Cost  Cost   Cost   Co   Costs   Costa                J Hired   Cod              TOdl
Health MaOgeme                     0    0.0       0    0.0  266.2    0.0   852    10.0   102       0.0   61.0      SA      2.0   20.0    6.6     450.0    6.1%
Disas Prntion and SurIllnce   1650   20.7  1760  185.8  232.9  106.2   71.2    0.0    38    0.0  173.3    10.8    0.0  101.0   32.9    843.5    1s5.1%
Health EducaIon                    0    0.0    75   96.2   06.2   41.6    8.2   10.0   13.2    2.7   70.6          3.6    0.0   13.0    4.3      345.7     62%
Matenal and Child Health ServIce,   2000  195.1  3800  303.0  102.3   17.3   26.6    0.0    1.6    0.0   37.7      4.0    0.0   46.0   14.6    7042    12.6%
Emegency serwce                    0    0.0  1380  113.2   68.4    8.1   17.5    0.0    9.7    0.0   13.5          0.2    0.0   19.0    7.8      284.4    4.7%
Hospital srvIe                  6311   114.0  9629  817.6  207.2  505.4   38.0    0.0   40.4    0.0   12.9    47.7   35.8   42.0   15.6    1924.7   34.%
Rehabiltation                   1000   21.0  1480  103.6   93.6    0.0    6.9    0.0    7.8    0.0   13.7          3.0    0.0   13.0    3.0      255.3     4.6%
Medkil Education and Training      0    0.0  3000  242.6  131.5   40.4    7.3    0.0    8.6    0.0   67.4          4.6    0.0   51.0   17.0      519.4     9.3%        i
Equipment Management               0    0.0  1000   67.4  169.8   20.2    4.0    0.0    3.2    0.0    2.7          1.3    0.0    3.0    1.6      270.3    4.6%      I 5
Nallonal Component                 0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0%
TOl Costs for 1989             10961  357.4  22534  1928.5  1390.1  929.4  268.9   10.9   96.7    2.7  483.6    86.6   38.8  307.0  103.2    5577.e   100.0%         0
%of Total                               6.4%          34.6%  24.9%  14.9%   4.8%   0.4%   1.8%   0.0%   8.1%       1.6%   0.7%           1.9%    100.0%              a



CHINA
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HFEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Baoj Region (Shaanxi), Indicative Fve Year Investment Program                                       08-Feb48   04:42 PM
(US$ Thousands)
CIVIL WORIKS             EOUIPMENT   TRAININQ       TECH. ASST.    New  Increinti
Projec Component       Rehabltwon      Conicn        Loal Fron  Local Foreign  Local Forewgn Program   Op.  maintn   NewStall  TOTAL             Of
Aea(M2) CO     Area(M2) Cost   cod   coat    oat  coat   coat   Coat code   coa                 I Hired Coat            TOW
Healt Mangment                   300   80.a   300   202   348.5    0.0   72.2    0.0   40.4    0.0  604.3    76.5   87.7  20.0  46.           1348.0      5.6%
O01.. Prntkon und   veillance   34s8    e4   7210  776.3  747.4  28.6  9s.s                42.9    o.o  1170.9   266.0  296.0  62.0 126.7    389.6       160%
Health Education                   0    0.0  0oo0  107.8   93 8   O.1   27.0   14.8   40.4    .0  38.8    30.2   26.1  35.0  76.0             804.8      3.7*
Matemnl and Chid Healh SwvIce    1900   48.6  4900  64.0  47.8  258.0  106.2    0.0   21.0    0.0  224.3   11.9  141.0  79.0 172.8    213.9              6.9%
EmerencyyService                   0    0.0  1500  310.0  1269.3    0.0   86.3    0.0   10.6    0.0   51.2   204.0  171.7  18.0  32.0    2136.7          8.0%
Hospital sevoe                 61S5 2610.0  18310  1745.6 2032.9 21.8  167.1    0.0  '10.8    0.0  '180.7   60s.4  426.1  67.0 121.3    9038.8           41.40A
Rehablitation                   3000   32.3  t150   202.2   18.8   70.0   31.8    0.0   62.3    0.0  178.3    67.7   8.3  26.0  48.0          896.6       3.74t
MIedia Educaon and Trainng      8807  1720   840  620.2  367.7    0.0   49.1    0.0   24.3    0.0  674.7    72.    00.0  65.0  80.9    2141.5             8.0%
EquipmentMagmnt                 1s0    80.9       0    0.0  299.2   87A    16.       0.0    0.0    8.4   86.2    29.6   70.1  18.0  34.0      687.0       2.0b
Natil Component                    0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0         0.0       0.0%6
TOW Coats                      85820 3022.9  40?10 4332.3 5805.4 2801.4  e65.9   14.8  253.1    3.4 3524.0  142.0  1326.1 374.0 730.4   24031.7    100.0%6
% Of Todal                             12.6%          18.0*  24.2%  12.0%   2.7%   01%    1.1%   0.0%  14.7%       6.1%   5..%        3.1%    100.0%
00
Baopi Region (Shaanxi), 1989 Plan Budget                                                                          I
(US$ Thousands)
CML WORKS                EQUIPMENT   TRAINING        TECH. ASST.    New  Inoremt'l                                  S
PretComponent          Rehablltaton    Construction    Local Foreign   oal Foreign  Local Foreign Program   Op.  MaInt'n   Now Sta    TOTAL      of
Area(M2) Coa  Area(M2) Coat   Coat   Coot   Cost   Coat   Coat   Coat Cott  Coats                 Hired Cot              Totl
Health Management                120   32.3   300   20.2  101.6    0.0   20.1    0.0   13.5    0.0  208.1          0.4    0.0  1t.0  8.0       807.3      6.7%
DOlea  Prewntion and Survellaence    488   17.5   600   63.0  338.5  68.2   29.0    0.0   102    0.0  218.1    24.8    0.0  18.0  0.7          70.9      10.0%6
Hath Education                     0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    7.1    6.4    4.0    0.0   63.9        0.0    0.0  12.0  6.5        96.9      1.1%b
Maternal and Child Health Sevce.   1200   29.6  2000  2588.   176.2  109.2   32.9    0.0    2.2    0.0   46.1    14.6    0.0  28.0  14.8    683.3         9.0%
EmwrgeoService                     0    0.0  1500  310.0  773.2    0.0   28.0    0.0    1.6    0.0    7.8    21.6    0.0   .0  3.2   '1160.1             162%
Hopl Servicen                  3041  10.4   2860  341.0  188.4  1816.9   33.7    0.0    0.6    0.0   23.7          7.8    0.0  28.0  15.1    3276.6      432%
RehablItatIon                   2100   22.0   830   111.0   94.9    7.3    0.7    0.0   27.0    0.0   30.1         8.0    0.0  6.0  3.2        322.5      4.346 
Medicw Education en Training      27   91.1       0    0.0  210.7    0.0    8.6    0.0    2.4    0.0   68.2    11.1    0.0  9.0  4.9           408.9      5.4%     0
Equipmwnt Management            tC80    80.0      0    0.0  2t8.3   53.O    8.4    0.0    0.0    t.3   10.1        2.7    4.0  10.0  5.4       301.1      5.2      o%
Natio  Component                   0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0          0.0      0.0%
TOta r    for 199              41486  1424.5  7660  1065.7 2204.9  1744.5  181.6    6.4   62.4    1.3  093.        97.8    4.0 128.0  68.7    7564.6    100.04b   F1
b of Totl                               18.8%         14.4%  29.1%  23.0%6  2.4%6  0.1%   0.8B   0.0%   9.1%       1.3%   0.1%4       0.96    100.0%



CHINA
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shaanxi Provincial Level Component, Indicative Five Year Investment Program                 08-Feb-80  04:42 PM
(US$ Thousands)
CIVIL WORKS              EQUIPMENT   TRAINING       TECH. ASST.    New  lncremtl                                   %
Project Cmponent       Rehabillation    Constucion    Local ForeIgn  Local Foregn  Loca  Foreign Program   Op.  Maint'n   Nw nStall  TOTAL       of
Ar*ea(M   Cost Area(M2) Coat    Codt  Cod   Coat  Coat   Cost   Cost Costs   Coats                Hired Cost            ToW
Health Managemoent                 0    0.0       0    0.0   58.5    2.7    4.0   19.4    0.0    0.0  124.0    24.5   13.7  6.0  13.5    260A             1.9%
Diss PveventIon and Survillance    0    0.0       0   20.2  206.6  330.7  105.1   20.2   00.1   20.2  589.2   146.0   72.6  0.0  0.0    1629.0           12.1%
Heath Education                    0    0.0  5618  714.3  230.7  188.8   67.4   39.9   87.0    0.0  501.3   148.6  166.0  29.0  e0.0    2208.6           16.4%
Matermal and Child Health Servicbe  400   27.0    0    0.0  125.3   29.6   63.9    0.0   21.6    0.0   35.0    10.8    6.2  0.0  0.0          309.4       2.3%
EmergencyService                3000  174.7  2000  345.0 1042.9  68.8  242.6   14.3   10.5    0.0  421.3   322.6  270.9  15.0  40.4    3672.0            26.6%
Hospital Sesvice                   0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0         0.0       0.0%
Phablfltlbon                     400   32.3       0    0.0   67.1   41.8  65.0    0.0   47.4    9.4  141.6    45.3   20.5  0.0  0.0           460A        3.4%
Medical Education and Training  9960  504.0  10243  1256.8  902.4  161.7   68.2    3.6   56.6    0.0  477.9   472.0  426.9  50.0  86.8    4408.0         32.7%
Equipment Mansaament             114    5.4   300   40.4  298.1   90.8   18.9    0.0    9.4    6.5   27.0    62.3   30.7  15.0  38.3    623.7             4.6%
National Componemn                 0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0         0.0       0.0%
Total Coat                     13864  743.4 180610 2370.8  2991.0  1536.9  W65.1   07.3  293.3   36.1  2317.3  1218.1  1006.6 114.0 248.0   13473.3    100.0%
Of Total                                5.6%          17.7%  22.2%   11.4%   4.5%   0.7%   2.2%   0.3%  17.2%      9.0%   7.5%        1.8%    100.0%                 I
Shaanxi Provincial Level Component, 1989 Plan Budget
(USS Thousands)
CIVL WORKS               EQUIPMENT   TRAINING       TECH. ASST.    New  lncremntl
Projet Component       Rehabiltatio    Construction    Loacl Foreign  Loca  Foreign  Local Foreign Program   Op.  Maint'n   New Staff  TOTAL     of
Akea(M2) Coat  Area(M2) Coat    Coat  Cost   Coat  Coat   Cost   Cost Coats   Coats             #Hired Coat              Total
Health Management                  0    0.0       0    0.0  56.5    2.7    0.8    0.0    0.0    0.0   80.9         4.9    2.7  5.0  2.7        153.1      4.2%
Disease Prevention and SurveIllanc  0    0.0      0    2.0  142.2  185.2   15.2    2.0   30.1    2.0  106.6    25.3    6.0  0.0  0.0          516.6      14.1%b
Health Education                   0    0.0  3018  444.7   34.0   26.9   20.6    0.0   20.2    0.0   71.4          5.4    0.0  17.0  9.2      631.3      17.3%
Maternal nd Child Health Serices  400   27.0      0    0.0  125.3   29.8   27.0    0.0    5.4    0.0    7.0        2.7    1.3  0.0  0.0       226.3      062%         2
EnergencyService                   0    0.0       0    0.0   48.4  1568.5    8.7    4.9    2.7    0.0   87.3    10.0    0.0  15.0  8.1        386.5      10.6%       COD
Hospial ServIce,                   0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0         0.0       0.0%        to
RehabIliation                    200   17.5       0    0.0   26.7   17.6   16.2    0.0   17.3    4.0   47.2    14.8    6.2  0.0  0.0           167.4      4.61 %
Medical Education and Training  9850  504.0       0    0.0  376.2  140.7    7.8    1.3   14.3    0.0   59.0    56.9   31.8  6.0  3.2    1194.3           32.7%        °
Equipmentl Management            114    5.4       0    0.0  293.8   51.8    3.8    0.0    2.7    3.2    5.7        7.0    0.0  11.0  6.0      379.2      10.4A%
National Component                 0    0.0       0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0  0.0  0.0         0.0       0.0%
Total Costs for 1989           10664  863.9  3018  448.8  1102.0  011.0  160.0    8.2   02.6    9.3  486.1   127.0   47.0  54.0  29.1    3652.8    100.0%
% of Total                             152%           12.2%  30.2%   10.8%   4.4%   02%   2.5%   0.3%  12.7%       3.5%   1.3%b       0.8%    100.0%b



-110-
AMN     3
Page 8 of 8
CHINA
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Total Costs (Budget Appropriations) by Project Component & Year
(US$ Thousands)
Project Component        (-          -      Project Year
1.        2          3         4          S.       Total
Health Management                   1617.3    1056.1     1011.2      635.9      624.6    4945.2
Disease Prevention an Surveillance  4556.4    4527.5    3734.8    1897.9    1830.3   16546.9
Health Education                    1609.0    3148.4    1833.9    1064.4       908.1    8563.8
Maternal and Child Health Services  2209.8    2335.5    1873.2       788.4      643.4    7850.3
Emergency Service                   3990.2    4150.6    2978.3    1506.5    1087.5   13713.1
Hospital Services                  10677.4    9446.1    6105.3    1341.7    1193.5   28764.0
Rehabilitation                       936.0    1206.3    1427.6       435.6      383.4    4389.0
Medical Education and Training      5163.9    7147.8    5879.2    2393.9    1716.9   22301.6
Equipment Management                1850.6    1422.1      375.9      150.7      126.4    3925.7
National Component                   456.4      387.9     413.1      394.3      387.3    2039.0
Total PROJECT COSTS               33067.1   34828.3   25632.5   10609.3    8901.4  1130385
Note: Lists are shown by year of expected budgetary appropriations. Expenditures
from each annual budget may be expected to require more than 1 year. Only
1989 budget appropriations have been finalized and approved. Each
subsequent year's appropriation Is subject to preparation, review and
approval of the health plan for each year.



CHINA
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Finandng Plan hiy Project Component
(US$ in Million)
a. To be Financed by IDA
New     Incremt'l           New
Project Component          Civil    Equipment                  Technical Program     Op.   Maint'nce   Staff    Total
works    Local   Foreign  Training   Assist.    Cost     Costs              Cost
Health Management                       0.1       0.4      0.1      0.6      0.1       1.1       0.0       0.0      0.0     2.3
Disa    Prevention and Survelillance    1.6       1.2      1.6      0.6      0.2       2.2       0.0       0.0      0.0     7.3
Health Education                        0.9       0.4      0.9      0.4      0.3       1.3       0.0       0.0      0.0     4.1
Maternal and Child Health Serices       1.1       0.6      0.5      0.3      0.1       0.3       0.0       0.0      0.0     2.9
Emergency Sevice                        1.3       1.5      2.2      0.5      0.2       0.5       0.0       0.0      0.0     6.1
Hospital Services                       6.0       1.6      6.0      0.5      0.1       0.3       0.0       0.0      0.0    14.6
Rehabilitation                          0.7       0.3      0.2      0.2      0.1       0.4       0.0       0.0      0.0     1.9
Medical Education and Training          3.2       2.0      1.9      0.4      0.2        1.7      0.0       0.0      0.0     9.4
Equipment Management                    0.3       0.7      0.6      0.1      0.0       0.1       0.0       0.0      0.0     1.8
National Component                      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.3      0.9       0.5       0.0       0.0      0.0     1.7
TOTAL                                15.0       &6       13.8      3.8      2.3       8.4       0.0      0.0      0.0    520
b. To be Financed by LocaUCentral Government
New     lncremt'l           New
Project Component          Civil    Equipment                  Technical  Program    Op.   Maint'nce   Staff    Totai
works    Local   Foreign  Training   Assist.    Cost     Costs              Cost
Health Management                       0.1       0.6      0.0      0.3      0.1       1.1        0.2     0.1       0.3     2.7
Dsease Prevention and Surveillance      2.0       1.8      0.0      0.3      0.1       2.2       0.9       0.9      1.1     9.2
Health Education                        1.1       0.6      0.0      0.2      0.1       1.3       0.4       0.4      0.4     4.5
Maternal and Child Health Services      1.4       1.0      0.0      0.1      0.0       0.3        0.3      0.4      1.4     5.0
Emergency Service                       1.7       2.3      0.0      0.2      0.1       0.5        1.2      1.1      0.6     7.6
Hospital Services                       7.6       2.6      0.0      0.2      0.1       0.3        1.2      1.4      0.8    14.2
Rehabilitation                          0.9       0.4      0.0      0.1      0.1       0.4       0.2       0.2      0.2     2.5
Medical Education and Training          4.0       3.1      0.0      0.2      0.1       1.7        1.6      1.5      0.7    12.9
Equipment Management                    0.3       1.1      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.1        0.2      0.2      0.1     2.2
National Component                      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.3       0.0       0.0      0.0     0.3      °
TOTAL                                19.1       13.5      0.1      1.5      0.6       8.2       6.1      6.3      5.7    61.0



CHINA
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan by RegionrProvincs
(US$ Millions)                                                             04-Apr-O
A. Tobs financed by IDA
CML WORKS              EQUIPMENT              TRAINING             TECH. ASST.             Ne        Incrsmti                 New
ReglmVProvl          Rehab.   Conwtrn        Locd      Foreign     Local     Foregn      Local     Foreign    Program     Op.    mainrnce         Staff       ToWl
Cod        cost       Cost       Coot       Cost       cost      Costs      Cois                     Cost
Jiujang Psgion (Janigd)       0.2        3.8          1.0        2.3        1.0        0.1       0.2        0.0        1.1        0.0          0.0        0.0        10.4
JIangxl Prtnc                 0.6        0.6          1.0        2.2        0.2       0.1        0.1        0.0        0.9        0.0          0.0        0.0         5.5
JInhua Region (Zhang)         0.8         3.4         1.7        3.0        0.7        0.1       0.2        0.0        1.8        0.0          0.0        0.0         11.7
Dshang Proonos                0.2        0.9          0.9        2.0       0.2        0.2        0.2        0.1        1.2        0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0
1i Region (Shaabd              1.3        1.0         2.3        2.9        0.5       0.0        0.2        0.0        1.8        0.0          0.0        0.0        10.8
ShaauxlPrwince                0.3         1.0         1.2        1.5       OA         0.1        0.2        0.0       It2         0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0 
Naional Component             0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0        02        0.0        0.2        0.7        0.5        0.0          0.0        0.0         1.7
TOTAL                        3S4       11.6         8.6       13.8        3.2        0.6        1.3        0.7        8.3        0.0          0.0        0.0        52.0
B. To be financed by LocaWCentral Government
CIVIL WORKS            EOUIPMENT             TRAINING              TECH. ASST.             New        ncremt'I                New
RegoniProtnce       RPhab.   Conetr'n        Local     Forebn      Local     Foreign     Local    Foreign    Program       Op.    Maint'nce       Staff       TOa
Cost       Cost       Cos        Cost       Cost       Coet      Cos        Costs                    Cost
Jiuar nggion (Jangx)          0.3        4.9          2.5        0.0        0.4       0.0        0.1        0.0        1.1        0.7           1.5       1.4        13.0
Jlang  ProiAnce               0.6         0.0         1.6        0.0        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.0        0.9        1.3           1.0       0.5         6.6
Jinhua Rsagon (Zhejlsn)        1.1        4.3         2.0        0.0        0.3        0.0       0.1        0.0        1.8        0.9          0.8        2.6         14.5
Zhojlang Prootnco             0.2         1.2         1.5        0.0        0.1        0.1        0.1       0.0        1.2        0.6          0.6         0.3         5.8
Bao# Pegion (Shanxi)           1.7        2.4         3.6        0.0        0.2       0.0        0.1        0.0        1.8        1.5           1.3       0.7         13.2       tD 
Shaanxi Prownce               0.4         1.3         1.8       0.0        0.2        0.0        0.1        0.0        1.2        1.2          1.0        0.2         7.5
Natonal Component             0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.3        0.0          0.0        0.0         0.3
TOTAL                        4.3       14.8        13.6        0.1        1.3        02         0.6        0.1        8.2        6.1          6.3        5.7        61.1



- 113 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
CHINA
INTEGRATED_ REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Evaluation and Monitoring
1.       Evaluation and monitoring of this project involves a number of
considerations. Each project region has, as part of its initial plan,
specified indicators for each project component. In some crases these
indicators reflect events or "process steps" related to institution
building goals or systemic improvements in the Project. Examples of
process steps would be: a) the establishment of Regional Health Management
Commissions;   b) designation of counties and a.ssignment of responsibility
to ..nitiate collective insurance experiments: c) consolidation of two or
more hospitals under unified management; or d) training of staff in
project accounting and budgeting procedures.
2.       Other indicators are "input oriented" and can be used to reflect
progress in implementation of some components. Examples of these include
increases in budgetary ratios devoted to preventive activities, increases
in provision of maintenance funds, and appointment and training of new
staff. Other examples are "input" indicators of health service, such as
increased occupancy rates at middle and lower level hospitals, decreases in
length of stay in some departments of higher level hospitals, opening of
outpatient psychiatric g3rvices, and reduction of nosocomial infections.
3.       As part of technical assistance in preparation of this project,
the project regions have also been helped to identify and develop "output
oriented" measures, dire'ct and indirect, of project impact. Such
indicators include declines in risk factor prevalence, increases in
community knowledge of risk factors, increases in immunization coverage,
in the rate of maternal risk identification and referral, and in selected
cases, declines in disease incidence and prevalence. All three types of
indicators - process, input and output - vary by region and reflect
differing needs and approaches. It is expected that the region's ability
to devise and use indicators will impiove with experience. Summary
indicators of overall project progress are more difficult to define. All
project components are important and all project inputs are important.
Some benefits from the project will accrue from institutional strengthening
and the underlying changes in attitude and thinking that precede it and the
consequent behavioral and decision making changes that result. These will
have to be monitored both a) directly during supervision of the annual
budgeting and planning process to watch for improvement in staff and
institutional capacity to propose, defend and implement programs that are
based on a balanced assessment of needs, capability and priority, and b)
indirectly by improvements in indicators which reflect these variables.
4.       Other expected benefits from the project will be the result of
investments and reforms to improve efficiency or improve the content nf
health services.  For example, health education programs in the east have



-114 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
not inc-luded efforts to improve community awareness of the risk factors for
chronic disease, nor to directly try to reduce trh prevalence of such risk
factors. Health education programs in the project will include both
efforts, but with differing approaches and differing coverage in each
region. Higher level hospitals in general suffer from inefficiency
characterized by low admissions rates, high ued occupancy rates and long
lengths of stay. Movements in the right direction for each of these
'ndicators should be achievable during the project period, but whether this
ioovement Is a sign of good progress depends on the underlying weys in which
it was achieved. Assessment will be required at both the regional and
institutional level.
5.       It is thus very difficult to identify a few, simple indicators of
success covering all nine components of the project, monitorable at a
central level and directly related to the complex array of issues which the
health sector faces. This problem characterizes efforts to evaluate and
monitor public investment and overail health system developments in all
countries. Some solutions have been predicated by setting 10 and 20 year
goals for health status and measuring, at intervals, the progress toward
these. This approach is not practical for the Bank or the Government to
use for this project as few epidemiologically clear changes in health
status can be expected to occur in a five year period.
6.       By far the most important objective of the proposed project is to
provide China the experience of establishing a Health Region, with
responsibility for assessing need, developing strategy, preparing programs
and budgets, managiklg their implementation, mobilizing the required
financing and monitoring themselves tLh progress and emergence of problems
and new needs. This is the approach which many other, developed countries
have had to take as the epidemiological transition has occurred, as health
costs have escalated, programs grew in complexity and outcomes became more
complex to measure. Part of the benefit from this experience will accrue
to the regional and to the provincial levels and will require a good deal
of subjective evaluation and issue-oriented dialogue by both the Bank and
the MOPH.
7.       Another part of the benefit will accrue directly to the MOPH
however, and the Ministry has assigned the monitoring and process
evaluation oF .he project, high priority within their work program.  One
sure sign of project impact will be the MOPH's ability to identify auid make
improvements in the Policy Guidelines to provide clearer direction and
stimulus for regions to undertake appropriate health development. Another
will be the MOPH's ability to transmit approaches and lessons learned to
other parts of China. For monitoring of the overall project MOPH will be
asked to provide semi-annual project monitoring reports for each region
focussing on the following four topics: a) quality of annual plan in terms
of needs assessment, clarity of issues, appropriateness and specificity of
strategy and programs;   b) availability of funds, including quality,
timeliness and appropriateness of budgets for the annual plans; c) quality
of project management (control, imagination, supervision, support of local



-115 -
Annx -5
Page 3 of 6
government, budgeting, monitoring and evaluating); d) developmental impact
throxugh adoption and diffusion of innovations, reforms, price adjustments,
initiation of new programs, gains in efficiency and effectiveness.
8.           Provisional set of indicators for use by MOPH in Monitoring
Reports.
Regions:                  JuILMa&                  BhiL               JLUa
*               Project Component:
mA.  amb4gent Pad lefot
Irocess Zudicatorst
No. of meetings of Regione1
Hetalth Camnisslon.
No. of Decisions by Regional
Health Commission
Input Indicators:
S Technical Assistance Costs of
Cosponent Spent
Z Trsainig Costs of Campnenmt
Spent
Output Indicators:
I insured population
Government Insurance System
Labor Insurance System
Other Insurance
X average copayment (of total
bill) for insured population
B. Disea se Heruilsace
Promes Indicators:
Establishment of Disease
Surveillance Points System
Anual Rlisk Factor Survey
Cwzpleted
Input Indlcators
Ratio: S growth in total disese
preventlon budget I X growth in
fees earned.
No. persons under TB drug therapy
No. person untder Schistosaioasis
drug therapy
Output Indlaetors:
eamYnzlation Coverage Rate
I change in risk factor
prevalence (age adjusted)
X change In TS and
Schistosomiasis Prevalence
S change in Golter Prevalence
C. Ebalth XNIcmatia so 'hgitm
Process Indicators:
Establishing  equippitng of
health education units



- 116 -
Anne .
Page 4 of 6
_nput IndLcators:
Training for 8.E. staff (person
days of trainLng)
X Technical Assistance Costs
Spent
X Training Costs Spent
X Program Support Costs Spent
Output Indicators:
Z population vith risk factor
knowledge (in ennual health
education survey)
minutes of weekly televlsLoan (and
radio) health educatlon messages
and total number of message-
eventslweek
Smoking prevalenae among salaried
public health vorkers in all
units.
D. Maternal and aild Wealth
Proeess Indicators:
establ ihment of high-risk
pregnancy monit.zing program
establlshment of growth
monitorLng program
Input Indicators:
mldwLfe and health worker
training eourses (persons weeks &
no. of courses)
Output Indieators:
ratio of high rlsk deliveries to
normal delLveries
X change ia rate of lnfant
mortallty
S of mothera at county level and
below receiving tetanus toxoid
X of children receiving hepatitls
B vaccine at birth
K. Emereney Services.
P_ocess Indicators:
Establlshment of Emargency
Network
Establishment of Emergency
Response Comifttee
Establish accreditation sytem
and career path for all levels of
emergency medLcine vorkers
Reform wage and beneflt scales
for emeAgency health care vorkers
and ambulance drivers
Input Indlcators:
Trainlng courses for health
workers, ambulance staff,
emergency center staff (person
weeks, no of courses)
Communlty Flrst Ald and Injury
Prevention Courses (person weeks,
no. of courses)



-117-
Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
Output Indicators;
average response time (minutes)
for ambulance (urban & rural)
X emergent cases arriving at
emergency network hospitals by
ambulance
average LOS of patients in
emergency unit prLor to hospital
admission
Ratio - ambulance usage by
insured patients I uninsured
|                         ~~~~~~~~patients
I~ ~ ~~~~V F   osnital Services.
Process Indicators:
Establishment and stafflng of
Preventive Medicine Departments
Establishment and staffing of
Health Education Programs
Input Indicators:
Training of hospital managers
(person weeks and no. of persons)
Staff training in chronic disease
prevention and management (person
veeks and no. of persons)
Ratio - Maintenance Expenditures
I Hospital Operating Expenditures
Output Indicators:
Rate of nosocomial nfections
Length of Stay and Bed Occupancy
Ratio at:
township hospitals, county
hospitals, higher level hospitals
(averaged)
6. Rehabilitation.
Process Indicators
Completion of surveys of
prevalence and causes of
disability
Establishment of dgpartments of
rehabilitation and outpatient
facilities in key hospitals
Establishment of outpatlent
psychiatric care departments
Establishment of trial bases for
community rehabilitation services
Input Indicators:
Training of cnummnity members and
health workers in rehabilitation
(person weeks, no of persons)
No. of patients under regular
(tvice weekly or more)
rehabilitative care outslde of
hospital bed settLng
Rate of psychiatric outpatient
vlslts/total outpatient vLaLts



oZa~~~~~
w~~~~~~~~~ 
~~  ~~~                 R~~~  ~~~i~~~I



- 119 -
ANNEX 6
I    >  I                                     x        
x~~~~~~~~
I          _ _ _ _ _  -   - - - - - -  - - - - - -_
0r.
i0
0I            ---     -    -   -    -   -    -    -   -    -    -  -- -
w              >                                     Xx   X   
x x ~ ~ ~ x
x
x g   _                  XX    Xx  X: X
X  _  _                    X X  X  X _
as ~~       -l __   - -i -X - - - -.                                      



- 120 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
CHINA
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in Proiect File
1.   Health Resources Mobilization and Efficiency, Du, Luxun, July 30,
1987.
2.   Chronic Disease Programs in the U.S.A., J. Krister, October 1987.
3.   Notes on Policy Guidelines Task Force Workshop, M. Young, November
1987.
4.   District Health Care, World Health Organization (undated draft).
5.   Health Manpower:  Resources. Needs and Priorities, T. Hall, February
1988.
6.   HosRital Planning and Management in Relation to Chronic Disease
Management, J. E. Blanpain, February 1988.
7.   Background Data for the Three Regions, M. Young, April 1988.
8.   PreRaration Mission: Consultant Notes on Proiect Components, J.
Koplan, J. Marks, J. Krister, M. Young, A. Measham, May 1988.
9.   Impact of the Rural Reform on Financing Rural Health Services in
China, M. Young, October 1988.
10. Health Education Workshop: A Case Study of Smoking Control, J.
Mackay, November 1988.
11. Cost Effectiveness in Medical Technology (Annex to Policy
Guidelines), D. Banta, December 1988.
12.  Notes on Appraisal of Health Education Component, J. Marks, December
1988.
13. Summaries of Regional Plans (13A-Baoji) (13B-Jiujiang) (13-C Jinhua),
December 1988.
14. Regional and Provincial Program and Budget Proposals for 1989-93,
December 1988.



- lZL -
I etltwtiB f IiIin:  n£IfIiIOLtHealth dOueAoofenLEro
Crfanizetion f'lon of tl Collee    )                       o b
Stoiogicei IPr.ucte" CeImen
|     inisert  of Public Petlt           |
..............................................
I stiesi luuttlu*te  vll  I Coetrelstot  |itratl u   I
lttine l Prsetilct Compet Cveetl                                                                            Traditi o    L WadCte
1,1101%Iftut  Pfor                                                                                Trlkasstl tlcisett A_oitrUtitStlttllftF
CttAesu incttdt5t of Trelttet Coutr nelt    _t Ettueftt t
5t Dr"s il,elaigical PraduCts
Chi"e" ACS&ie of PrleolcVl S iteseo
Ct)ewee ACe" of *S(tlttoftol ttftcftltS
CttaUt$* ACIIXl  at nItrfdlcol Sclo es
of teHsei
Arhslee 0twl, va: en                                                                Post srtte getls Olvillsf
t;ntSt Ofice      ;     @Letterl & ViSit e OlVislO                                Neet Ecetlee  xC  SoceasiUv oluMel tEttiO. Slelen
Atmi sBtrtiV" DOlviseS                                9        tWOt -                    r     istien   t I      tdacati  Sieteg
Secretarilt                                                                       ce.isens tifaleIttcM1ESMON  Dlvsi_
Center for HeaIth IOtenrmelten enM Stetietice
Plemftiegl Ovise
LeSOJ Penl  Eee.. DIeie 1f1                                          uSCII          TeltRlell Cqeetsm a inhtp Dase
91ett trrt W   ft9t DVOtItelSettl  ll 
Iecoicvl CIII`0e11 Divrlit                                                     -     eneegh Essitieg  DiviOes
Start Tralelesa" oend Dseemet Divielis
. Nth Pelic,      r  Pelcfl e.elerch  olDvisen                                        nMfIIn Pleasing T-Cetntl tt tOvieget
3                     tealth Lagleleienf o tilvisna                                 Chitli Htelttt       Chidirs  Nenit Olvietm
w_ omme HeItb Oldiefim
-Flatce OlivisI  (1`1tPt Affiliatedienlittte)
p1.0mil&            Equipamnt eand Suppig Oivielee                                                      Caow.greb le n& lasacgeties Division
4w Pln     *  =Capittol Ceonstruction Dlvition                                Orus Pelico a &                for lwe  *    tt
Pleasing Olisiele                                     12       @s,ert a             T_oIitiegl Chiser    flc     Division
Stri,izoetles & esgistretiem ODvinmet
_ etlth care for ttlOtO   atlgU ionasitlen
Prt.ler Hraftlth Core Divuslge
*ittttiB                 Hospital Ad.gsietstraie  Division                            eFeII Affair            uigetetei E.tleanm Diies
= Eltrig Cee  E, ISehliStetSon feeleci  Ol sIdert    III
1ese  Care Civieon                                                             -i euael OisteiSe
Cetmebenil a" P aglvetn                                     Vtel  S Cett  let Dl ilisel
NllSt  &       =   Chtreletictions Dieeee tletagent olneloaI 2nt Olvitlea
e         t tdoosiii:   F    Acute iafclee  DiseAs  ftlsetmet Dlvition
r  ovm             Partic Ott Dceese Mtanagement Doviinea                                               santrel Divinetl
world d         -    Project ODvusia
Cetmraflnnive e Plteuieg Division                             Ltea Office            Procuretmet Divisinl
nRgoe". Inspection       occeptlennl "Vltea. Donvietea                                                        Finance DIvisioN
7    A    I                 lO*ttefttrtlao nod Fooad Hjjgienes Division
ODwairwNAt       - SciHol Htwien Division                                   1        lt ts ot lbs
= Redation itgtgss                                     I; 6   't rlotic tteeltt     Halith ee catlon Diuvisl
Ensireamantew  HIggis"e                                    Ceimpoigs Committee
D   E!Iemic D     _Ie        Eo0mic "leans. Administratinf DilvilIO
Cfttet5 Oquarlmeuite s-4 hve Staff ONeafte itfttiarsttln  ibllitiOs for antor MntsitrV
i.e   ~~~CUScltannaulas  AdosainIsvlrsos Divi5SOa                       Ospornteuts S. i- 16 i am spwtoomeets toioth 8011ciiic PIPes Or fitowiO
respnstttoilot.



CHART 2
CHINA: FINANCIAL FLOW CHART - HEALTH SECTOR
Owners of Major        Inpatint and Wljor          Decentraied Ouptent         Sourows of Finance     Sources of Finane for
Healfth institutions  nstional Oupatent Care         and Preverntve Cars         for Heatth Care     Insurance Funds and for
(Main Capital Budgets  and Pvene Semes                     Institom            and Preventive SewIces    Decentralized Healt
and Regular Salries)                                                                                  Insttons (Supwp ental
Caplt Budge & SalWn)
STATE PLANN MNGS_
COMMSSION         ...        OF FNAANWE
.               |~~~~~~~~~~~~O FMN GOVERNTEN
.. . .*. _ ..._     _..                         EMPLOYEES'               MINISTRIES
I                                                          .      I~~~~          ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NSURAE  S PEOPLES
I_______________      SYSTEM              LIBERATION ARMY
HOSPITALS & HEALTH              GOVERNMEN    L                                                  ICE,EDIJCAT
1         ~~~EMPLOYEES,
UNDERT E                    HEALTH CUNa  OTH
PUBLIC HEALTHISOCLTOTR
iI.                            PULC  HEALTH                                     G. ORGANZATIONS
Li   PUBLIC HEALTH   .         DEPAR...T..
DEPARTMENT       1                       1                  -                                                 OWN
E    HOSPITAUTS & HEALTH                             ___                 _      _      ENERPRISES
Lo>E  UNDERCLETIVE  4 4                                     HEALTH CUN IC F
DEPAR4TMENTS-l'         ORGANIZATION
GOVERNMENT      U& NTERPIE                                  COLLECTIVE
|  *  & ENTERPRISES    |         v  ^               z      LAER                 ENTERPRISES
2    STATE ED  2             . j          L .    ,    , .    ~~~~~~~~INSURANCE  __         
STATE OWNE                                                   -  - - f                                    ENTE-PRISES
ENTERPRISES          HOSPITALS8HEALTH 1        ,     _      _PRIVATE
INSTITUTIONS    |      ,*rl ENTERPRISES I                                                            |
I I   I ; UNDER OTHER
OTHER  N            j      aSTATE       RPRIVATE MEDICAL
ORGANIZATKINS                                                          41      INSULAGE LAJ
.b                                m a9bRIAE I                   'I COLLECTIVE                       I       nENTERPRISES
udgiary fundreg for basi staf aats  ao
eiaetpurchase & bulling = costutInad                      T__________
Paymnts for servioss to clnrCs a unsb diredy under      HEALTH CLINICS      |-  INSURANCE
conOo od Isunran pam, or to icca pubc or                                            SYSTEMS
en rd             ba      eb Twtn                                          .                                   NDIVIDUAL    _
-   Budget nerrs and prvtMe enuesforL
suppemetalstall aare, mFoARMERS prhse,PRVTE*                                     FAMR
&8                       |  PPmONFR   12              1 . 4    ~~~~~~~~~~FARMERS, 
email bIldingconatnilon 8 SP5I!5PRCII~ONER                              INCOMES
-- -  Taxes & remmtd prfl                              | tsE
Public hh depar     means te    of Pub Hl at fte national Wv; ti roAnda Bureau of Halt at te prvnc lv; & ft
corrspon bureaus of heal I muh, c_ a, pefetsu & a_on.
Othr depatents ldudest PLKA. th mIn dIses rdways, co tcatIns   mther



CHART 3
REGIONAL PLANNING PROCESS
Reviews regional plans and provincial proposals,            Ministry of
concurs or objects; authorizes expenditures using          Public Health
credit proceeds; provides guidance through Policy             (MIOPH)
Guidelines, technial assistance and supervision
of Implementation
Consolidates proposals for programs/investments of           Proyincial
provincial level units; reviews these for appropriate-        Health
ness and provides guidance and technical assistance;          Bureau
accepts or rejects regional plan, provides technical                                    Provincial
assistance to regionals and particpates in supervision                                 Level Health
of implementation                                                                     Service Units
Regional Health Commission
RHC approves regional plan                                     (RHC)
Regional Health Bureau prepares overall plan, reviews        Regional
and balances individual county and municipal level            Health
plan submissions, proposes priorities and investments         Bureau
to RHC, supervises overall Implementation                                               Regional
l               ~~~~~Level Health
Districts and counties develop clarify and consolidate        Health
plans and undertake basic implementation                     Bureaus
Admimistretife                            Epidemic          MCH           County
Local health service units propose actlvtties/         PolicIj                 Hospitals     Prevention       Centers        Training
investments; deliver health services                  Gudene                                  Stations                        Center
Township               reawdcel
Health                Qidence
Centers



IBRO 21329
< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U. S. S. R.$t 
U. S. S. R.                   -                     4                     y                     V                   0                   *.
r- g/ j > (? ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ULMNBAATAR< t Hrbn 6  a_
sv.  zt   g  MONGOLIA                                                ONOJIANG
0                                                                                                                                       -~~~~~~  Shenyon~~~~~0MOGO
LIA           D.P.R.              Sea oJ va   %   /tJAPAN
'°   <   <-J-   Hu             g ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                       < | - < t tx {>8t /IAONINC WR  ,                         japan    JAPAN~~~~~~~~~~Japa
AFXl,V/ISANC    s°    )    "   r  XIAREA
BEIJING
U..S-;   s o   Ymchl7/   /   K  Sh.1-zhu.74N  S                                     'aREP.
nI     w 5       )nzhouHU; -  / S~tAN  ea
'IINONG
QINGHA!I                                                                                 Yw
HrNAN     A         IINGSU              East China
-rv-                 s00               \ 9   XtZANC              ;      <                                 -                           Hefei              SHANAAHAAItSti
Al- C.                        ch-gd.                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HL'Bl   ohn   o/
,NEPAL             Lh-
i w      H                       IBstD 21J64 >   pi,( 98021'
no.                  9CHLIAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANX
vJ   g        GuyanS         ~~~HUN4.V           j      Fuh,
G0oyaq nJA
CHINA                                                                 L,L!IZI-1UL' A                                                                      PACIFIC
INTEGRATED REGIONAL HEALTH                                                                                                  0                                                  OCEAN
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                               LUN4V                                        GUANoDONG                                                 OCEAN
I'NNANV                 (;( IAA'G-S/         ogho
Pr0100 Prooiflos  0    Seleded Town.                                      VITAN  KONG, U.K.
Prqrot go/ion,  @      Pronino, Copituls o<    >  VIET NAM  \                                   >      f         Macao, Port.            PHILIPPINES
Xi'an    Prolff Cit.    *        Ntitonal Capit_lC
Pvi- B-d.d.   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~HNOI                                   South                                I
__   Prooince 6oondariei            ;         LAO PEOPLE'S        y                     ch50it    wrna  O                 N, I  rII 
*        Internotronol L3unediesAnd                  DEM. REP.                                               ________J_Sa_,_ _,_ _'_,' ' _,_'
TAIlAN                                II/1'          sea                 0    0    0
X *_t 9 t y MISS O 1a9 200  314                                                                                  ,a
APRL 1989



IBRD 213
NFl                                          G A  N  S U              - ailRoads
A IONCG0I                                                                 '.- Rivers
-County Boundaries
Lon,g Xia             - ~~~~Region Boundaries
I 1/INCA.M                                                                               \ I yji + /A  tProvince Boundaries
IA  A N  A' I  -                                  Qianyang               nyo
;AN:,II  Hancheng ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~'ha
SICHUHAZNO
C  H  I N  A                         ToQian Yang
REGIONAL HEALTH SERVICE PROJECT
BAOJI CITY
0    LOCATION OF HEALTH INSTITUTES
ROADS
|-   +RAILROADS              l                                                    To FAn8
APRIL 1989



IBRU 21363
ANHUI                      SHAHGHI                                          .SHAXIN(G
Hangz                  0
S (f-/ < ,/< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T;\4C1  AZHOV
> ,7 f~~~~~~~~ast                                           RaHil _Roads
l   Sea                                County Boundaries
0     25    so              Region Bounda-ies
FUJIAN        -\2--                               LOMETERS
CHINA
0  REGIONAL HEALTH SERVICE PROJECT
JINHUA CITY
S o    Location Gf Health Institutes
\   -    Roads
\   \>          | & ~~~~Railroads
,:0+1~~~~~~
APRIL 1989



IBRD 21364
EIUBW  t S   ~~AAM f/l  -Roads               <>H U  fF/t A NHUIF
-( ~~~~onty BounrJarie-s \>A
¢  nhan_ Ct1 -Region Boundaries _)_,dnz
aProvnce oundarlies
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 51 0<f
O s LOCATION OF HEALTH INSTITUTES
To Npg                 RAILROADS
l LL~~~~~>                            RIVERS
APRIL 1989



