Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2009 CHA
(Integrated Regional Health Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
and
JIANGXI PROVINCE
and
SHAANXI PROVINCE
Dated September 14, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2009 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1989, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and ZHEJIANG PROVINCE, JIANGXI PROVINCE AND SHAANXI PROVINCE (the 
Provinces).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
thirty-nine million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 39,400,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that each of the Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Provinces, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Provinces declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and public health practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Each of the Provinces shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit made 
available to it to Implementing Regions under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each of the Provinces shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Provinces shall enter into the Implementing 
Arrangement with MOPH and the Implementing Regions referred to in Section 3.05 of the 
Development Credit Agreement and shall ensure that the Project will be carried out in 
accordance with the Regional Health Plans acceptable to the Association.
(b)
Each of the Provinces shall participate in the exchange of views 
specified in Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, and exchange views with 
the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit.
(c)
Each of the Provinces shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by such Province 
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. For the purposes of coordinating Project activities and monitoring 
its implementation, each of the Provinces shall maintain a Project Office with 
functions and staffing acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Provinces shall maintain records and accounts in 
respect of the Project adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
Each of the Provinces shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above 
including those 
for the respective Special Account for each 
Page  3
fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, 
and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, each of the Provinces 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
each of the Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance 
with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify each of the Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V
Page  4
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex, radiogram or fax to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given 
or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
Fax:
(202) 477-6391
For Zhejiang Province:
People's Government of Zhejiang
Province
Sheng Fu Lu
Hangzhou,
Zhejiang Province
People's Republic of China
Fax:
752222
For Jiangxi Province:
People's Government of Jiangxi
Province
4th Jiaotong Lu
Nan Chang
Jiangxi Province
People's Republic of China
Fax:
224110
For Shaanxi Province:
People's Government of Shaanxi
Province
Xin Cheng Da Yuan
Xi'an
Shaanxi Province
People's Republic of China
Fax:
79130
Page  5
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of each of the 
Provinces, or by such Province on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the governor or vice governor or such other 
person or persons as he shall designate in writing, and such Province shall furnish to 
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
JIANGXI PROVINCE
SHAANXI PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
In order to ensure economy and efficiency in procurement, procurement of goods 
shall be coordinated by MOPH by grouping similar items for bulk purchase to the extent 
possible.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Repairs and rehabilitation of health facilities shall be carried out in 
accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  6
2.
Contracts for renovation and new construction of health facilities shall be 
awarded  in  accordance with the local competitive bidding procedure satisfactory to 
the Association. 
3.
Contracts for materials and equipment estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent but more than $25,000 equivalent each, may be awarded in accordance with 
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.
(a)
Materials and equipment estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association; and (b) 
proprietary items and items required for
standardization may be procured through direct contracting with suppliers, provided, 
however, that the total amount of procurement under (a) and (b) above shall not exceed 
the equivalent of $9,000,000.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract. 
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedules 3, 4, 5 and 6 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement and Section 4.01 
(c)  (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower or the Provinces in carrying out the Project or 
cause the Project to be carried out, the Borrower and the Provinces shall employ or 
cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the 
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
